Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the profit and loss account for the The separate financial statements of the Company are drawn up in accordance period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items with the Companies Act 1985 and UK generally accepted accounting principles carried at fair value are included in the profit and loss account for the period.
Borrowing costs The preparation of Company Financial Statements in conformity with generally All borrowing costs are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and in which they are incurred.
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Company Financial Taxation Statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that exist at the balance periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
sheet date and that result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the future.
The deferred tax is measured at the rate expected to apply in As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on account of the Company is not presented in this Annual Report.
These separate the tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance financial statements are not intended to give a true and fair view of the profit or sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and loss or cash flows of the Company.
The Company has not published its individual expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which cash flow statement as its liquidity, solvency and financial adaptability are they are included in the Company Financial Statements.
Deferred tax assets are dependent on the Group rather than its own cash flows.
recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 8 Related party disclosures and has not reported transactions with fellow Group undertakings.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities in respect of financial instruments are The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in FRS 29 recognised on the Company Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party Financial Instruments: Disclosures and has not produced any disclosures to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
required by that standard, as disclosures that comply with FRS 29 are available in the Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified 2.
Significant accounting policies according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is The Companys significant accounting policies are described below.
any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other Accounting convention financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities The Company Financial Statements are prepared under the historical cost and equity instruments are set out below.
convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards of the UK Accounting Standards Board and pronouncements of the Urgent Issues Task Force.
Capital market and bank borrowings Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value which is Investments equal to cost at inception and are subsequently measured at amortised cost Shares in Group undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of The Company assesses investments for impairment whenever events or transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may over the term of the borrowing.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of the Equity instruments cash-generating unit is less than the value of the investment, the investment Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
net of direct issue costs.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign value are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of or is exchange rates and interest rates.
determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity, determined using the weighted average cost method, The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Foreign currencies In preparing the Company Financial Statements, transactions in currencies other Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract than the Companys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange date and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary The Company designates certain derivatives as hedges of the change of fair items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges.
Hedge accounting on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
date when fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 135
