Vodafone Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Contingent liabilities 2008 2007 m m Performance bonds 111 109 Credit guarantees third party indebtedness 29 34 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 372 90 Performance bonds arrangements and whether the Vodafone 2 reference should be maintained Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the or withdrawn by the Special Commissioners.
On 26 July 2007, the Special event that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the terms Commissioners handed down their judgment on these questions.
The tribunal of any related contracts.
Group performance bonds include 26 million decided on the basis of the casting vote of the Presiding Special Commissioner 2007: 57 million in respect of undertakings to roll out 3G networks in Spain.
that the CFC regime can be interpreted as applying only to wholly artificial arrangements and that the Vodafone 2 reference should be withdrawn.
Vodafone Credit guarantees third party indebtedness 2 is appealing these decisions to the High Court and this appeal was heard on Credit guarantees comprise guarantees and indemnities of bank or other facilities, 20 to 22 May 2008.
The High Courts ruling is expected in the coming months.
including those in respect of the Groups associated undertakings and investments.
The Company has taken provisions, which at 31 March 2008 amounted to Other guarantees and contingent liabilities approximately 2.2 billion, for the potential UK corporation tax liability and related Other guarantees principally comprise commitments to the Spanish tax interest expense that may arise in connection with the Vodafone 2 enquiry.
The authorities of 197 million 2007: nil.
provisions relate to the accounting period which is the subject of the proceedings described above as well as to accounting periods after 31 March 2001 to date.
The Group also enters into lease arrangements in the normal course of business, The provisions at 31 March 2008 reflect the developments during the year.
which are principally in respect of land, buildings and equipment.
Further details on the minimum lease payments due under non-cancellable operating lease The Company has been served with a Complaint filed in the Supreme Court of the arrangements can be found in note 31.
State of New York by Cem Uzan and others against the Company, Vodafone Telekomunikasyon A. S. VTAS, Vodafone Holding A. S. and others.
The plaintiffs Legal proceedings make certain allegations in connection with the sale of the assets of the Turkish The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may be from time to time, company Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Hizmetleri A. S. Telsim to the Groups involved in a number of legal proceedings, including inquiries from or discussions Turkish subsidiary, which acquired the assets from the SDIF, a public agency of the with governmental authorities, that are incidental to their operations.
However, Turkish state, in a public auction in Turkey pursuant to Turkish law in which a number save as disclosed below, the Company and its subsidiaries are not involved of mobile telecommunications companies participated.
The plaintiffs seek an Order currently in any legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental requiring the return of the assets of Telsim to them or damages.
The Company proceedings which are pending or known to be contemplated which may have, believes these claims have no merit and will vigorously defend the claims.
or have had in the twelve months preceding the date of this report, a significant effect on the financial position or profitability of the Company and its subsidiaries.
On 12 November 2007, the Company became aware of the filing of a purported With the exception of the Vodafone 2 enquiry, due to inherent uncertainties, class action Complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District no accurate quantification of any cost which may arise from any of the legal of New York by The City of Edinburgh Council on behalf of the Lothian Pension proceedings outlined below can be made.
Fund against the Company and certain of the Companys current and former officers and directors for alleged violations of US federal securities laws.
The Company is one of a number of co-defendants in four actions filed in 2001 The Complaint alleged that the Companys financial statements and certain and 2002 in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia in the United States disclosures between 10 June 2004 and 27 February 2006 were materially false alleging personal injury, including brain cancer, from mobile phone use.
The and misleading, among other things, as a result of the Companys alleged failure to report on a timely basis a write-down for the impaired value of Vodafones Company is not aware that the health risks alleged in such personal injury claims have been substantiated and is vigorously defending such claims.
In August 2007, German, Italian and Japanese subsidiaries.
The Complaint seeks compensatory damages of an unspecified amount and other relief on behalf of a putative class the Court dismissed all four actions against the Company on the basis of the federal pre-emption doctrine.
The plaintiffs have appealed this dismissal.
comprised of all persons who purchased publicly traded securities, including ordinary shares and American Depositary Receipts, of the Company between A subsidiary of the Company, Vodafone 2, is responding to an enquiry the 10 June 2004 and 27 February 2006.
The plaintiff subsequently served the Complaint and, on or about 27 March 2008, the plaintiff filed an Amended Vodafone 2 enquiry by HMRC with regard to the UK tax treatment of its Luxembourg holding company, Vodafone Investments Luxembourg SARL VIL, Complaint, asserting substantially the same claims against the same defendants on behalf of the same putative investor class.
The Company believes that the under the Controlled Foreign Companies section of the UKs Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 the CFC Regime relating to the tax treatment of allegations are without merit and intends to defend the claims vigorously.
profits earned by the holding company for the accounting period ended 31 March 2001.
Vodafone 2s position is that it is not liable for corporation tax in the UK Vodafone Essar Limited VEL and Vodafone International Holdings B. V. VIHBV each received notices in August 2007 and September 2007, respectively, from the under the CFC Regime in respect of VIL.
Vodafone 2 asserts, inter alia, that the CFC Regime is contrary to EU law and has made an application to the Special Indian tax authorities alleging potential liability in connection with alleged failure by VIHBV to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Commissioners of HMRC for closure of the Vodafone 2 enquiry.
In May 2005, the Special Commissioners referred certain questions relating to the compatibility Telecommunications International Limited group HTIL in respect of HTILs gain of the CFC Regime with EU law to the European Court of Justice the ECJ for on its disposal to VIHBV of its interests in a wholly-owned subsidiary that indirectly determination the Vodafone 2 reference.
HMRC subsequently appealed holds interests in VEL.
Following the receipt of such notices, VEL and VIHBV each against the decision of the Special Commissioners to make the Vodafone 2 filed writs seeking Orders that their respective notices be quashed and that the reference but its appeal was rejected by both the High Court and Court of Appeal.
tax authorities take no further steps under the notices, inter alia.
Initial hearings The Vodafone 2 reference has still to be heard by the ECJ.
Vodafone 2s have been held before the Bombay High Court and in the case of VIHBV, the High application for closure was stayed pending delivery of the ECJs judgment.
Court has admitted the writ for final hearing in June 2008.
VELs case is stayed pending the outcome of this hearing.
Vodafone believes that neither it nor any In September 2006, the ECJ determined in the Cadbury Schweppes case other member of the Group is liable for such withholding tax and intends to C-196 04 the Cadbury Schweppes Judgment that the CFC Regime is defend this position vigorously.
incompatible with EU law unless it applies only to wholly artificial arrangements intended to escape national tax normally payable wholly artificial arrangements.
At a hearing in March 2007, the Special Commissioners heard submissions from Vodafone 2 and HMRC, in light of the Cadbury Schweppes Judgment, as to whether the CFC Regime can be interpreted as applying only to wholly artificial 128 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008
