Definition of Terms 3G broadband 3G services enabled with High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA technology which enables data transmission at speeds of up to 7.2 megabits per second.
3G device A handset or device capable of accessing 3G data services.
Acquired intangibles Amortisation relating to intangible assets identified and recognised separately in respect of a business combination in excess of the amortisation intangible assets recognised by the acquiree prior to acquisition.
Acquisition costs The total of connection fees, trade commissions and equipment costs relating to new customer connections.
Capitalised fixed asset additions This measure includes the aggregate of capitalised property, plant and equipment additions and capitalised software costs.
Change at constant exchange Growth or change calculated by restating the prior periods results as if they had been generated at the current periods exchange rates rates.
Also referred to as constant currency.
Churn Total gross customer disconnections in the period divided by the average total customers in the period.
Controlled and jointly controlled Controlled and jointly controlled measures include 100% for the Groups mobile operating subsidiaries and the Groups proportionate share for joint ventures.
Customer delight The Group uses a proprietary customer delight system to track customer satisfaction across its controlled markets and jointly controlled market in Italy.
Customer delight is measured by an index based on the results of surveys performed by an external research company which cover all aspects of service provided by Vodafone and incorporates the results of the relative satisfaction of the competitors customers.
An overall index for the Group is calculated by weighting the results for each of the Groups operations based on service revenue.
Data revenue Data revenue includes all non-voice service revenue excluding messaging revenue and fixed line revenue.
Depreciation and other This measure includes the profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and computer software.
amortisation DSL A Digital Subscriber Line which is a fixed line enabling data to be transmitted at high speeds.
Handheld business device A wireless connection device which allows access to business applications and push and pull email.
HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access is a wireless technology enabling network to mobile data transmission speeds of up to 7.2 megabits per second.
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access is a wireless technology enabling mobile to network data transmission speeds of up to 1.4 megabits per second.
Interconnect costs A charge paid by Vodafone to other fixed line or mobile operators when a Vodafone customer calls a customer connected to a different network.
Messaging revenue Messaging revenue includes all SMS and MMS revenue including wholesale messaging revenue, revenue from the use of messaging services by Vodafone customers roaming away from their home network and customers visiting the local network.
Mobile customer A mobile customer is defined as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM, or in territories where SIMs do not exist, a unique mobile telephone number, which has access to the network for any purpose, including data only usage, except telemetric applications.
Telemetric applications include, but are not limited to, asset and equipment tracking, mobile payment and billing functionality, e. g. vending machines and meter readings, and include voice enabled customers whose usage is limited to a central service operation, e. g. emergency response applications in vehicles.
Mobile PC connectivity A connection device which provides access to 3G services to users with an active PC or laptop connection.
This includes Vodafone device Mobile Connect Cards with 3G broadband, Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data cards and Vodafone Mobile Connect USB modems.
Net debt Long term borrowings, short term borrowings and mark to market adjustments on financing instruments less cash and cash equivalents.
Organic growth The percentage movements in organic growth are presented to reflect operating performance on a comparable basis.
Where an entity, being a subsidiary, joint venture or associated undertaking, was newly acquired or disposed of in the current or prior period, the Group adjusts, under organic growth calculations, the results for the current and prior period to remove the amount the Group earned in both periods as a result of the acquisition or disposal of subsidiary or associated undertakings.
Where the Group increases, or decreases, its ownership interest in a joint venture or associated undertaking in the current or prior period, the Groups results for the prior period are restated at the current periods ownership level.
Further adjustments in organic calculations exclude the effect of exchange rate movements by restating the prior periods results as if they had been generated at the current periods exchange rates and excludes the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Partner markets Markets in which the Group has entered into a Partner Agreement with a local mobile operator enabling a range of Vodafones global products and services to be marketed in that operators territory and extending Vodafones brand reach into such new markets.
Penetration Number of customers in a country as a percentage of the countrys population.
Penetration can be in excess of 100% due to customers owning more than one SIM.
Proportionate customers The proportionate customer number represents the number of mobile customers in ventures which the Group either controls or in which it invests, based on the Groups ownership in such ventures.
Purchased licence amortisation Amo rtisation relating to capitalised licence and spectrum fees purchased directly by the Group or existing on recognition through business combination accounting, and such fees recognised by an acquiree prior to acquisition.
Retention costs The total of trade commissions, loyalty scheme and equipment costs relating to customer retention and upgrade.
Service revenue Service revenue comprises all revenue related to the provision of ongoing services including, but not limited to, monthly access charges, airtime usage, roaming, incoming and outgoing network usage by non-Vodafone customers and interconnect charges for incoming calls.
Termination rate A per minute charge paid by a telecommunications network operator when a customer makes a call to another mobile or fixed line network operator.
Total communications revenue Comprises all fixed location services revenue, data revenue, fixed line revenue and other service revenue.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 155
