Vodafone Executive Summary Operating Environment and Strategy Vodafone is seeing significant change in its operating environment.
Traditional market boundaries are shifting as customers benefit from a growing choice in communications services.
Our strategy, as Operating environment Competition The industry landscape continues to evolve The communications market is very competitive, with a number set out in May Vodafone is seeing significant change in its operating of providers in most countries.
The Groups principal competitors 2006, continues environment.
Traditional market boundaries are shifting as are existing mobile network operators MNOs in each of its customers benefit from a growing choice in communications geographic markets.
In addition, the Group competes with to address the services, devices and providers that span mobile, broadband and mobile virtual network operators MVNOs that lease network changing operating the internet.
This change is being driven by evolving customer capacity from MNOs and fixed line operators offering combined environment needs, the emergence of new technologies, intensifying price fixed and mobile services.
New competitors are also beginning competition from both new and established competitors and to enter the communications market, including internet based regulatory pressures.
companies, handset manufacturers and software providers.
Arun Sarin These companies are being encouraged by the relative Chief Executive Customers attractiveness of the industry and the opportunity to extend Customers needs are changing, including the desire for faster their services to mobile.
access to services, simple and value driven tariffs and easy to use devices.
Customers increasingly want mobile data services, such Vodafones core European market has high mobile penetration as email and internet access, so that they can use the internet on of over 100% due to some customers owning more than one their mobile devices in much the same way as they use it on their subscriber identity module SIM, which limits customer PC.
In order to meet customers evolving needs, the Group is growth.
The combination of high penetration and competitive building upon its traditional services of voice and messaging to intensity is expected to continue to place significant downward include newer offerings such as mobile and fixed broadband.
Technology Regulation Technology within the mobile industry is evolving rapidly.
Regulatory activities by both national and EU authorities Vodafone has been upgrading its networks to enable the continue to have a significant impact on the telecommunications provision of high speed mobile internet and broadband in sector.
Around 20% of the Groups revenue is directly subject to addition to core voice and messaging services.
Ongoing network regulation mainly related to termination rates and international enhancements are expected to provide even faster access and voice roaming.
The competitive environment is also impacted a better user experience.
In addition, the range and capability by regulation in a number of areas, including the allocation of of mobile devices continues to evolve in terms of speed, data radio spectrum, the provision of network access to third parties capacity and multi-function capability.
Against this background, and network sharing.
Regulation is anticipated to continue to the Group continues to carefully assess, select and deploy the have a major influence on both the Group and the appropriate technology and devices in order to improve both telecommunications industry.
operational efficiency and customer service.
Vodafones strategy addresses the changing environment The external environment Strategic objectives Ongoing regulatory and competitive pressures 1 Revenue stimulation and cost reduction in Europe in Europe Growing choice of communication services 2 Innovate and deliver on our customers and providers total communications needs Growing demand for mobile data and broadband Growth potential in emerging markets 3 Deliver strong growth in emerging markets Appropriate return to shareholders Actively manage our portfolio to maximise returns 4 5 Align capital structure and shareholder returns policy to strategy 10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Strategy Innovate and deliver on our customers total Est imated mobile Vodafones five key strategic objectives were set out in May 2006 communications needs penetration Europe % to address the mobile industrys changing environment and to The communications environment is constantly evolving and At 31 December 2007 draw upon the Groups strengths.
customers increasingly want solutions to meet all their communications needs from one provider.
In this environment, Germany 117 Revenue stimulation and cost reduction in Europe Vodafone has broadened its offerings beyond core voice and Competition and regulation in Europe are placing significant messaging to include total communications solutions, which pressure on pricing.
In order to offset these pressures, the is comprised of data, fixed location services, fixed broadband Italy 153 Groups strategy is to drive additional revenue and reduce costs.
Spain 122 Revenue stimulation is focused on ways to encourage additional Vodafone continues to benefit from strong data revenue growth, usage and revenue from core voice and messaging services in particularly due to mobile devices and services that connect Europe, where only around 40% of voice traffic is carried over business and consumer users to their email and the internet.
In UK 122 mobile networks and customers use their mobiles for around addition, through partnerships with leading internet companies, 170 minutes per month, around a quarter of comparable US the Group provides products and services that integrate the levels.
The strategy is based on a market by market approach mobile and PC environments.
This enables consumers to use of targeted propositions for key customer segments.
Consumer their mobiles to replicate fixed line internet activities.
offers include a range of attractive tariffs, which are designed Est imated mobile to offer both simplicity and value.
Business propositions are Fixed location services have been developed to encourage focused on leveraging Vodafones market leading presence customers to substitute fixed line usage for mobile within their penetration EMAPA % At 31 December 2007 among European business customers.
For roaming customers, home and office environments.
This includes services that allow Vodafones wide European footprint enables it to offer customers to make mobile calls from designated locations at competitive and transparent price tariffs.
prices similar to fixed line providers.
Egypt 42 Cost reduction is being driven by leveraging the Groups local Vodafone offers fixed broadband services as a complement and regional scale.
Key initiatives are focused on centralising, to its mobile broadband products.
This combination enables India 21 sharing and outsourcing certain activities.
customers to have alternative means to access their internet applications either at home, in the office or on the move.
Fixed Romania 103 The Group has centralised bulk purchasing of networks, IT broadband is provided through a mixture of owned assets and and services to drive cost efficiencies.
Parts of the networks wholesale relationships with leading partners.
have been shared with other operators to reduce the costs, Turkey 80 as well as the environmental impact, of network expansion Mobile advertising is still in its infancy, but offers a potentially and maintenance.
In addition, certain functions have been significant future revenue stream.
By using mobile devices, both outsourced in markets where industry leading partners are advertisers and consumers have the opportunity to create and US 86 able to realise greater scale and cost efficiencies.
receive adverts that are more targeted to users interests and preferences than traditional media.
The Groups current focus is on building the appropriate distribution channels and content.
Total communications services contributed 13% of Group revenue during the year and are expected to represent around 20% by the 2010 financial year.
Deliver strong growth in emerging markets Emerging markets are expected to represent an increasing proportion of the Group in the next few years due to organic growth and new investments.
Business units aligned to strategy Existing markets continue to benefit from strong customer growth due to low mobile penetration rates of 36% on average.
Additional Europe value is being driven by measures to reduce costs and stimulate revenue by leveraging the Groups global scale and best practice from within its more established European operations.
Key focus The Group continues to pursue selective opportunities to invest Revenue stimulation in new markets as well as taking opportunities to increase its and cost reduction stakes in existing markets.
The focus is on attractive growth regions such as the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
Actively managing our portfolio to maximise returns EMAPA The Group seeks to optimise its portfolio of assets by either disposing of assets when a superior return cannot be earned or acquiring assets when substantial additional value for Key focus shareholders can be achieved.
Potential acquisitions are subject to strict criteria including appropriate financial returns, Deliver strong growth a strong local position and an identifiable path to control.
in emerging markets Align capital structure and shareholder policy to strategy The Groups capital structure and returns policy has been aligned to its operational strategy.
The key targets are low single A long term credit ratings and 60% of adjusted earnings per share distributed as dividends.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 11
