Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with liabilities recognised.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are Previously held identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the also prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union EU, acquired entity are revalued to their fair value at the date of acquisition, being the the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
date at which the Group achieves control of the acquiree.
The movement in fair value is taken to the asset revaluation surplus.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Interests in joint ventures amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control: that is, when the and expenses during the reporting period.
For a discussion on the Groups strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require critical accounting estimates see Critical Accounting Estimates on page 85. the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using proportionate are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision cash flows of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items affects both current and future periods.
in the results on a line-by-line basis.
Amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in pounds sterling.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting 2.
Significant accounting policies policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
Accounting convention Investments in associates The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a historical cost basis An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the at fair value.
power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the the Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and jointly, by the Company.
Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated Accounting for subsidiaries balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate those used by the Group.
recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The licences of the Groups associated undertaking in the US, Verizon Wireless, are indefinite lived assets as they are subject to perfunctory renewal.
Accordingly, Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified they are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment, separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the or when indicators exist that the carrying value is not recoverable.
amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Intangible assets Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys share of changes in Goodwill equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable to cover the losses.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is held in the currency date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each balance sheet date.
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment.
assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured statement.
at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount liabilities recognised.
of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the income statement on disposal.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 91 Vodafone Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable incremental costs incurred in their acquisition and installation.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 1 April 2004, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not than land and properties under construction, using the straight-line method, been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss over their estimated useful lives, as follows: on disposal.
Freehold buildings 25 50 years Licence and spectrum fees Leasehold premises the term of the lease Licence and spectrum fees are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
The amortisation periods range from 3 to 25 years and are determined primarily Equipment, fixtures and fittings: by reference to the unexpired licence period, the conditions for licence renewal and whether licences are dependent on specific technologies.
Amortisation is Network infrastructure 3 25 years charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated Other 3 10 years useful lives from the commencement of service of the network.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Computer software Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the over their estimated useful lives, being 3 to 5 years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant software products controlled by the Group, and that are expected to generate and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Direct costs include software development employee costs and directly attributable overheads.
Impairment of assets Goodwill Software integral to a related item of hardware equipment is accounted for as Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually property, plant and equipment.
or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels as an expense when they are incurred.
for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, known as cash-generating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the Research and development expenditure carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other which it is incurred.
assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are not reversed in a An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development subsequent period.
activity is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
an asset is created that can be separately identified: In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can The Group prepares and internally approves formal ten year management plans be recognised, development expenditure is charged to the income statement in for its businesses.
The first five years of these plans are used for the value in use the period in which it is incurred.
calculations, except in markets which are forecast to grow ahead of the long term growth rate.
In such cases, the ten year plan is used until the forecast growth rate Other intangible assets trends towards the long term growth rate, up to a maximum of ten years.
Long Other intangible assets with finite lives are stated at cost less accumulated range growth rates are used for cash flows into perpetuity beyond the relevant amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the income five or ten year period.
statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are Property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets as follows: At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets to determine whether there Brands 1 10 years is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such Customer bases 2 5 years indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to Property, plant and equipment estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the Land and buildings held for use are stated in the balance sheet at their cost, recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating Equipment, fixtures and fittings are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised and any accumulated impairment losses.
immediately in the income statement.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its ready for their intended use.
recoverable amount, not to exceed the carrying amount that would have been 92 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cashInventory generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined immediately in the income statement.
on the basis of weighted average costs and comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in Disposal groups held for sale bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer Revenue substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the lessee.
Group revenue comprises revenue of the Company and its subsidiary All other leases are classified as operating leases.
undertakings plus the Groups share of the revenue of its joint ventures and excludes sales taxes and discounts.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum Revenue from mobile telecommunications comprises amounts charged to lease payments as determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime usage, messaging, liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
the provision of other mobile telecommunications services, including data Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the services and information provision, fees for connecting users of other fixed line lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining and mobile networks to the Groups network, revenue from the sale of equipment, balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
including handsets, and revenue arising from partner market agreements.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement Access charges and airtime used by contract customers are invoiced and on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle and recognised as revenue over the receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a related access period, with unbilled revenue resulting from services already straight line basis over the lease term.
provided from the billing cycle date to the end of each period accrued and unearned revenue from services provided in periods after each accounting Foreign currencies period deferred.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities within the Group, time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each Other revenue from mobile telecommunications primarily comprises equipment balance sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are sales, which are recognised upon delivery to customers, and customer retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Customer connection revenue is recognised together with items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are the related equipment revenue to the extent that the aggregate equipment and retranslated at the rate prevailing on the date when fair value was determined.
connection revenue does not exceed the fair value of the equipment delivered Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign to the customer.
Any customer connection revenue not recognised together currency are not retranslated.
with related equipment revenue is deferred and recognised over the period in which services are expected to be provided to the customer.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available for sale are analysed between translation differences and Revenue from data services and information provision is recognised when the other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
Translation differences are Group has performed the related service and, depending on the nature of the recognised in the income statement and other changes in carrying amount are service, is recognised either at the gross amount billed to the customer or the recognised in equity.
amount receivable by the Group as commission for facilitating the service.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and liabilities are Incentives are provided to customers in various forms and are usually offered on reported as part of the fair value gain or loss.
Translation differences on nonsigning a new contract or as part of a promotional offering.
Where such incentives monetary financial assets, such as investments in equity securities classified are provided on connection of a new customer or the upgrade of an existing as available for sale, are included in equity.
customer, revenue representing the fair value of the incentive, relative to other deliverables provided to the customer as part of the same arrangement, is For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial Statements, the assets and deferred and recognised in line with the Groups performance of its obligations liabilities of entities with a functional currency other than sterling are expressed relating to the incentive.
in sterling using exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for For equipment sales made to intermediaries, revenue is recognised if the the period and exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity.
significant risks associated with the equipment are transferred to the intermediary Such translation differences are recognised in the income statement in the period and the intermediary has no general right of return.
If the significant risks are not in which a foreign operation is disposed of.
transferred, revenue recognition is deferred until sale of the handset to an end customer by the intermediary or the expiry of the right of return.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and Intermediaries are incentivised by the Group to connect new customers and translated accordingly.
Where such incentives are separable from the initial sale of equipment to an intermediary, the incentive is accounted for as an expense In respect of all foreign operations, any exchange differences that have arisen upon connection, or upgrade, of the customer.
before 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are deemed to be nil and will be excluded from the determination of any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue from other businesses primarily comprises amounts charged to customers of the Groups fixed line businesses, mainly in respect of access The net foreign exchange gains recognised in the Consolidated Income charges and line usage, invoiced and recorded as part of a periodic billing cycle.
Statement for continuing operations is 373 million 2007: 92 million loss, 2006: 36 million loss.
A loss of 794 million was recognised in the 2007 financial In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the arrangement year for discontinued operations.
consideration is allocated to each deliverable based on the fair value of the individual element.
The Group generally determines the fair value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly sold on a standalone basis, after considering volume discounts where appropriate.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 93 Vodafone Financials Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they either relate to Borrowing costs income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which entity or on different taxable entities which intend to settle the current tax assets they are incurred.
and liabilities on a net basis.
Post employment benefits Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to For defined benefit retirement plans, the difference between the fair value of the items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also recognised plan assets and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or directly in equity.
liability on the balance sheet.
Scheme liabilities are assessed using the projected unit funding method and applying the principal actuarial assumptions as at the Financial instruments balance sheet date.
Assets are valued at market value.
Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group early adopted the amendment contractual provisions of the instrument.
to IAS 19, Employee Benefits, and applied it from 1 April 2004.
Accordingly, actuarial gains and losses are taken to the statement of recognised income and The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS to financial instruments for all expense as incurred.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both periods presented and has not taken advantage of any exemptions available to the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments first time adopters of IFRS in this respect.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and the Group early adopted IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, what has actually occurred.
amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, regarding Financial Guarantee Contracts Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income and amendments to IAS 39 regarding The Fair Value Option and Cash Flow statement, including the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect Hedge Accounting of Forecast Intragroup Transactions and applied them from of any curtailment or settlements.
The interest cost less the expected return 1 April 2004. on assets is also charged to the income statement.
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of these plans is included within operating costs or Trade receivables in the Groups share of the results of equity accounted operations as appropriate.
Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the receivable to the income statement as they fall due.
Individual trade receivables are written off when management deems them not to be collectible.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses as at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, have been recognised in the balance sheet.
Other investments Other investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where Taxation a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because some items Other investments classified held for trading and available-for-sale are stated of income or expense are taxable or deductible in different years or may never at fair value.
Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses be taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period.
UK and foreign tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair enacted by the balance sheet date.
value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in the future arising recognised in equity, determined using the weighted average costs method, from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
It is accounted for using the balance sheet liability Other investments classified as loans and receivables are stated at amortised method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary Cash and cash equivalents differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and call deposits, and other temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other than in a business short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised to the extent they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except Financial liabilities and equity instruments where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after and adjusted to reflect changes in probability that sufficient taxable profits will be deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
94 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Capital market and bank borrowings The amount that may become payable under the option on exercise is initially Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value which recognised at fair value within borrowings with a corresponding charge directly to is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, equity.
The charge to equity is recognised separately as written put options over using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a minority interests, adjacent to minority interests in the net assets of consolidated hedged item in a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds net of subsidiaries.
The Group recognises the cost of writing such put options, determined transaction costs and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised as the excess of the fair value of the option over any consideration received, over the term of the borrowing.
Equity instruments Such options are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, interest rate method, in order to accrete the liability up to the amount payable net of direct issue costs.
under the option at the date at which it first becomes exercisable.
The charge arising is recorded as a financing cost.
In the event that the option expires Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting unexercised, the liability is derecognised with a corresponding adjustment The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign to equity.
exchange rates and interest rates.
Provisions The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result the Board of directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the values of all derivatives of a financing nature are included within investment expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and income and financing costs in the income statement.
The Group does not use are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Share-based payments Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
date and are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the The Group designates certain derivatives as either: effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups fair value hedges : or estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, Fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model, being a lattice-based terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
option valuation model, which is calibrated using a Black-Scholes framework.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements Fair value hedges best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and The Groups policy is to use derivative instruments primarily interest rate swaps behavioural considerations.
to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order to hedge the interest rate risk arising, principally, from capital market borrowings.
The Group The Group uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee designates these as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with changes in fair value termination within the valuation model: separate groups of employees that of the hedging instrument recognised in the income statement for the period have similar historical exercise behaviour are considered separately for valuation together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged purposes.
The expected life of options granted is derived from the output of risk, to the extent the hedge is effective.
The ineffective portion is recognised the option valuation model and represents the period of time that options are immediately in the income statement.
Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities as determined by a simple average of no less than three international banks, Net investment hedges excluding the highest and lowest numbers.
The risk-free rates for periods within Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign the contractual life of the option are based on the UK gilt yield curve in effect operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on those hedging at the time of grant.
instruments which include bonds, commercial paper and foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations Some share awards have an attached market condition, based on Total are recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective.
Shareholder Return TSR, which is taken into account when calculating the These amounts are included in exchange differences on translation of foreign fair value of the share awards.
The valuation for the TSR is based on Vodafones operations as stated in the statement of recognised income and expense.
ranking within the same group of companies, where possible, over the past five Gains and losses relating to hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately years.
The volatility of the ranking over a three year period is used to determine in the income statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in the the probable weighted percentage number of shares that could be expected translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign to vest and hence affect fair value.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Group adopted the Amendments to IAS 21, The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, The fair value of awards of non-vested shares to the Board of directors and with effect from 1 April 2004, being the date of transition to IFRS for the Group.
Executive Committee is equal to the closing price of the Vodafones shares on the date of grant, as these awards are entitled to dividend equivalents during the Put option arrangements vesting period.
Awards of non-vested shares to other employees are not entitled The potential cash payments related to put options issued by the Group over the to dividends during the vesting period and the fair value reflects a discount to the equity of subsidiary companies are accounted for as financial liabilities when such closing share price of Vodafones shares on the date of grant equal to the present options may only be settled other than by exchange of a fixed amount of cash value of expected dividends to be received over the vesting period.
or another financial asset for a fixed number of shares in the subsidiary.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 95
