Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with liabilities recognised.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are Previously held identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the also prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union EU, acquired entity are revalued to their fair value at the date of acquisition, being the the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
date at which the Group achieves control of the acquiree.
The movement in fair value is taken to the asset revaluation surplus.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Interests in joint ventures amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control: that is, when the and expenses during the reporting period.
For a discussion on the Groups strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities require critical accounting estimates see Critical Accounting Estimates on page 85. the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using proportionate are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects consolidation.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision cash flows of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items affects both current and future periods.
in the results on a line-by-line basis.
Amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements are stated in pounds sterling.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting 2.
Significant accounting policies policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
Accounting convention Investments in associates The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared on a historical cost basis An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the at fair value.
power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the financial statements of The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the the Company and entities controlled, both unilaterally and jointly, by the Company.
Consolidated Financial Statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated Accounting for subsidiaries balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate those used by the Group.
recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The licences of the Groups associated undertaking in the US, Verizon Wireless, are indefinite lived assets as they are subject to perfunctory renewal.
Accordingly, Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified they are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment, separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the or when indicators exist that the carrying value is not recoverable.
amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Intangible assets Losses applicable to the minority in excess of the minoritys share of changes in Goodwill equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the the minority has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable to cover the losses.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is held in the currency date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each balance sheet date.
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment.
assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured statement.
at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount liabilities recognised.
of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the income statement on disposal.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 91
