Vodafone Additional Information Shareholder Information Financial calendar for the 2009 financial year Dividend reinvestment Announcement for quarter ending 30 June 2008 22 July 2008 The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows holders of Half-yearly financial results announcement 11 November 2008 ordinary shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire Announcement for quarter ending 31 December 2008 29 January 2009 additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the Preliminary announcement of full year results 19 May 2009 Plan Administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
The Company does not publish results announcements in the press: they are For ADS holders, The Bank of New York Mellon maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan available online at www.
for the Company, which is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts, with a dividend reinvestment facility.
Dividends Full details on the dividend amount per share can be found on page 55.
Set out below Final B share redemption date is information relevant to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008.
In accordance with the terms of the 2006 return of capital and share consolidation, the Company currently intends to redeem all B shares then in issue on 5 August Ex-dividend date 4 June 2008 2008 at their nominal value of 15 pence per B share.
Record date 6 June 2008 Dividend reinvestment plan last election date 11 July 2008 Telephone share dealing 1 Dividend payment date 1 August 2008 A telephone share dealing service with the Companys Registrars is available for holders of ordinary shares.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday Note: to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 703 0084.
1 Payment date for both ordinary shares and ADSs.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
Dividend payment methods Internet share dealing Holders of ordinary shares can: An internet share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary shares who want either to buy or sell ordinary shares.
Further information about this service can be have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account: or obtained from the Companys Registrars on 44 0 870 702 0198 or by logging onto have cash dividends paid in the form of a cheque: or www.
elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more Vodafone shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan see below.
Online shareholder services The Company provides a number of shareholder services online at www.
If a holder of ordinary shares does decide to receive cash dividends, it is recommended com shareholder, where shareholders may: that these are paid directly to the shareholders bank or building society account via BACS for UK account holders or EFTS for Irish account holders.
Ordinary shareholders resident register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
Benefits to outside the UK and Eurozone can also have their dividends paid into their bank account shareholders include faster receipt of communications, such as annual reports, directly via the Companys Registrars Global Payments service.
Details and terms and with cost and time savings for the Company.
Electronic shareholder conditions may be viewed at www.
This avoids communications are also more environmentally friendly: the risk of cheques being lost in the post and means the dividend will be in the view a live webcast of the AGM of the Company on 29 July 2008.
A recording will shareholders account on the dividend payment date.
The shareholder will be sent a tax be available to view after that date: voucher confirming the amount of dividend and the account into which it has been paid.
view and or download the 2008 Annual Report: check the current share price: Please contact the Companys Registrars for further details.
calculate dividend payments: and use interactive tools to calculate the value of shareholdings, change registered Holders of ADSs can: address or dividend mandate instructions, look up the historic price on a particular date and chart Vodafone ordinary share price changes against indices.
have cash dividends paid direct to a bank account: or have cash dividends paid by cheque: or elect to have the dividends reinvested to purchase additional Vodafone ADSs.
Registrars and Transfer Office If private shareholders have any enquiries about their holding of ordinary shares, such as a change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, they should contact the Companys Registrar at the address or telephone number below.
Computershare Investor Services PLC maintain the Vodafone Group Plc share register and holders of ordinary shares may view and update details of their shareholding via the Registrars Investor Centre at www.
ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holdings to the Depositary Bank for the Companys ADR programme at the address or telephone number below.
ADS holders can view their account balances and transaction history, sell shares and request certificates from their Global BuyDIRECT Plan at www.
The Registrar Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland : Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited PO Box 82 PO Box 9742 The Pavilions Dublin 18 Ireland Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH England Telephone: 0818 300 999 Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 Email: web.
co. uk ADR Depositary Enquiries in relation to the Global BuyDIRECT Plan The Bank of New York Mellon The Bank of New York Mellon Investor Relations Dept, PO Box 11258 Investment Services Dept Church Street, Station PO Box 1958, Newark New York, NY 10286 -1258 USA New Jersey 07101 1958 USA Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the USA, 1 212 815 3700 not toll free and enter company number 2160 140 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive Company press On 31 July 2006, the Group returned approximately 9 billion to shareholders releases, including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering for in the form of a B share arrangement.
As part of this arrangement, and in order Vodafone News via the Companys website at www.
com start misc to facilitate historical share price comparisons, the Groups share capital was register for news.
Registering for Vodafone News will enable users to: consolidated on the basis of seven new ordinary shares for every eight ordinary shares held at this date.
Share prices in the five and two year data tables below access the latest news from their mobile: and have not been restated to reflect this consolidation.
have news automatically e-mailed to them.
Five year data on an annual basis London Stock Frankfurt Stock Annual General Meeting Exchange Exchange The twenty-fourth AGM of the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Pounds per Euros per NYSE Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on 29 July 2008 ordinary share ordinary share Dollars per ADS at 11.00 a. m. Financial Year High Low High Low High Low 2003 2004 1.50 1.12 2.22 1.59 27.88 18.10 A combined Review of the Year and Notice of AGM, including details of the 2004 2005 1.49 1.14 28.54 20.83 business to be conducted at the AGM, will be circulated to shareholders and can 2005 2006 1.55 1.09 28.04 19.32 be viewed at the Companys website www.
com start investor relations agm.
html Two year data on a quarterly basis on the day of the meeting and a recording will be available to view after that date.
London Stock Exchange Pounds per NYSE ShareGift ordinary share Dollars per ADS The Company supports ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered Financial Year High Low High Low charity number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very 2006 2007 small number of shares, which might be considered uneconomic to sell, are able First Quarter 1.30 1.14 24.23 21.07 to donate them to charity.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, Second Quarter 1.24 1.08 22.93 20.07 the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
Donating shares to Third Quarter 1.47 1.20 29.00 22.61 charity gives rise neither to a gain nor a loss for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes and UK Fourth Quarter 1.54 1.34 29.85 25.94 taxpayers may also be able to claim income tax relief on the value of the donation.
2007 2008 First Quarter 1.69 1.36 33.87 26.88 ShareGift transfer forms specifically for the Companys shareholders are available Second Quarter 1.79 1.47 36.52 29.13 from the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, and, even if Third Quarter 1.98 1.67 40.87 34.32 the share certificate has been lost or destroyed, the gift can be completed.
The Fourth Quarter 1.94 1.46 38.27 29.27 service is generally free.
However, there may be an indemnity charge for a lost or 2008 2009 destroyed share certificate where the value of the shares exceeds 100.
Further 1 First Quarter 1.68 1.50 32.82 29.74 details about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
org or at 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH telephone: 44 0 20 7930 3737.
Note: 1 Covering period up to 23 May 2008.
The Unclaimed Assets Register Six month data on a monthly basis The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register, which provides London Stock a search facility for financial assets which may have been forgotten and which Exchange donates a proportion of its public search fees to a group of three UK charities Pounds per NYSE Age Concern, NSPCC and Scope.
For further information, contact The Unclaimed ordinary share Dollars per ADS Assets Register, Cardinal Place, 6th Floor, 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL Financial Year High Low High Low telephone: 44 0 870 241 1713, or visit its website at www.
On 16 September 1991, when the Company was finally March 2008 1.64 1.46 32.10 29.27 demerged, for UK taxpayers the base cost of Racal Electronics Plc shares was April 2008 1.62 1.49 32.23 29.57 1 apportioned between the Company and Racal Electronics Plc for Capital Gains Tax May 2008 1.68 1.59 32.82 30.82 purposes in the ratio of 80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
Opening share prices Note: on 16 September 1991 were 332 pence for each Vodafone share and 223 pence 1 High and low share prices for May 2008 only reported until 23 May 2008. for each Racal share.
The current authorised share capital comprises 68,250,000,000 ordinary shares 3 On 21 July 1994, the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares for every of $0.11 7 each and 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each and one then held and, on 30 September 1999, it effected a bonus issue of four new 38,563,935,574 B shares of 0.15 each and 28,036,064,426 deferred shares of shares for every one held at that date.
The flotation and demerger share prices, 0.15 pence each.
therefore, may be restated as 11.333 pence and 22.133 pence, respectively.
Inflation and foreign currency translation The share price at 31 March 2008 was 150.9 pence 31 March 2007: 135.5 pence.
Inflation The share price on 23 May 2008 was 160.4 pence.
Inflation has not had a significant effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition during the three years ended 31 March 2008.
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported high and low middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange, ii the reported high and low sales prices of ordinary shares on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, and iii the reported high and low sales prices of ADSs on the NYSE.
The Companys ordinary shares were listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange from 3 April 2000 until 23 March 2004 and, therefore, information has not been provided for periods outside these dates.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 141 Vodafone Additional Information Shareholder Information continued Foreign currency translation Major shareholders The following table sets out the pounds sterling exchange rates of the other The Bank of New York Mellon, as custodian of the Companys ADR programme, 3 principal currencies of the Group, being: euros, or eurocents, the currency held approximately 12.6% of the Companys ordinary shares of $0.11 7 each at of the EU Member States which have adopted the euro as their currency, and 23 May 2008 as nominee.
The total number of ADRs outstanding at 23 May 2008 US dollars, $, cents or, the currency of the United States.
At this date, 1,182 holders of record of ordinary shares had registered addresses in the United States and in total held approximately 0.006% At year ended Change of the ordinary shares of the Company.
At 23 May 2008, the following percentage Currency 1 2008 2007 % interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Average: Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR 5, have been notified to the directors: Euro 1.42 1.48 4.1 US dollar 2.01 1.89 6.3 Shareholder Shareholding At 31 March: AXA S. A.
5.81% Euro 1.26 1.47 14.3 Legal & General Group Plc 4.53% US dollar 1.99 1.97 1.0 The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by this The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, the period end, shareholder are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the ordinary average, high and low exchanges rates for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars shares of the Company.
The directors are not aware, at 23 May 2008, of any other per 1.00. interest of 3% or more in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by any foreign government or any Year ended 31 March Period end Average High Low other legal entity.
There are no arrangements known to the Company that could 2004 1.84 1.69 1.90 1.55 result in a change of control of the Company.
2005 1.89 1.85 1.96 1.75 2006 1.74 1.79 1.92 1.71 Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable 2007 1.97 1.89 1.98 1.74 English law 2008 1.99 2.01 2.11 1.94 The following description summarises certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This summary Month High Low is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 of England and November 2007 2.11 2.05 Wales, as amended and the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales the December 2007 2.07 1.98 Companies Acts, and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
January 2008 1.99 1.95 Information on where shareholders can obtain copies of the Memorandum and February 2008 1.99 1.94 Articles of Association is provided under Documents on display on page 144.
March 2008 2.03 1.98 April 2008 2.00 1.96 All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
Markets Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London Stock Exchange English law specifies that any alteration to the Articles of Association must be and, in the form of ADSs, on the NYSE.
The Company had a total market approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
capitalisation of approximately 86.8 billion at 23 May 2008, making it the third th largest listing in The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 index and the 24 largest A resolution to change the Articles of Association in order to comply with the company in the world based on market capitalisation at that date.
Companies Act 2006 will be put to shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on the NYSE under the The Companys objects symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by The Bank of New York The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England and Wales.
Mellon, as Depositary, under a Deposit Agreement, dated as of 12 October 1988, as The Company is registered in England and Wales under the name Vodafone Group amended and restated as of 26 December 1989, as further amended and restated Public Limited Company, with the registration number 1833679.
The Companys as of 16 September 1991, as further amended and restated as of 30 June 1999, objects are set out in the fourth clause of its Memorandum of Association and cover and as further amended and restated as of 31 July 2006 between the Company, a wide range of activities, including to carry on the business of a holding company, the Depositary and the holders from time to time of ADRs issued thereunder.
to carry on business as dealers in, operators, manufacturers, repairers, designers, developers, importers and exporters of electronic, electrical, mechanical and ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct The Bank of New aeronautical equipment of all types as well as to carry on all other businesses York Mellon on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary necessary to attain the Companys objectives.
The Memorandum of Association shares represented by their ADSs.
See Memorandum and Articles of Association grants the Company a broad range of powers to affect its objects.
and applicable English law Rights attaching to the Companys shares Voting rights on page 143.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of directors, consisting Shareholders at 31 March 2008 of not fewer than three directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of Number of % of total the Company.
Number of ordinary shares held accounts issued shares 1 1,000 443,176 0.21 The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company subject 1,001 5,000 81,173 0.30 to any restrictions in the Articles of Association.
5,001 50,000 25,087 0.55 50,001 100,000 1,158 0.14 Under the Companys Articles of Association, a director cannot vote in respect of 100,001 500,000 1,142 0.45 any proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has More than 500,000 1,757 98.35 a material interest other than by virtue of the directors interest in the Companys 553,493 100.00 shares or other securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions a giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security or Geographical analysis of shareholders indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred at the request of or for At 31 March 2008, approximately 51.58% of the Companys shares were held in the benefit of the Company, b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the the UK, 33.64% in North America, 11.73% in Europe excluding the UK and 3.05% director or a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which the in the rest of the world.
director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which the director participates as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting of such shares or securities, d concerning any other company in which the director together with 142 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise interested, directors providing for payment of that dividend, the directors may invest the provided that the director together with any connected person is not interested dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of the Company until the in 1% or more of any class of the companys equity share capital or the voting dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the rights available to its shareholders, e relating to the arrangement of any relevant resolution either declaring that dividend or providing for payment of employee benefit in which the director will share equally with other employees that dividend, it will be forfeited and belong to the Company.
and f relating to any insurance that the Company purchases or renews for its directors or any group of people, including directors.
Holders of outstanding B shares in issue are entitled to accrue a continuing dividend at the rate of 75% of sterling LIBOR, payable semi-annually in arrears, on The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to all future redemption dates until final redemption on 5 August 2008.
The B shares borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all liabilities do not have any other right to share in the profits of the Company.
and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to 1.5 times the aggregate of the Groups share capital and reserves Special distribution calculated in the manner prescribed in the Articles of Association, unless At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company on 25 July 2006, shareholders sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
approved a distribution of capital of approximately 9 billion by way of a B share scheme, equating to 15 pence per B share for every ordinary share in issue at The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree to do so in 28 July 2006.
The Company has made payments against B shares redeemed the future, provided it is duly authorised by its members in a general meeting and in August 2006, February 2007, August 2007 and February 2008.
The Company subject to and in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985. intends to redeem all outstanding B shares in issue, on 5 August 2008.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors retiring at Voting rights each AGM are those last elected or re-elected at or before the AGM held in the The Companys Articles of Association provide that voting on Substantive third calendar year before the current year.
In 2005, the Company reviewed its Resolutions i. e. any resolution which is not a Procedural Resolution at a general policy regarding the retirement and re-election of directors and, although it is not meeting shall be decided on a poll.
On a poll, each shareholder who is entitled intended to amend the Companys Articles in this regard, the Board has decided, to vote and is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held.
in the interests of good corporate governance, that all of the directors should Procedural Resolutions such as a resolution to adjourn a General Meeting or offer themselves for re-election annually.
Accordingly, all the directors not retiring a resolution on the choice of Chairman of a General Meeting shall be decided will submit themselves for re-election at the 2008 AGM.
on a show of hands, where each shareholder who is present at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll is demanded.
No person is disqualified from being a director or is required to vacate that office In addition, the Articles of Association allow persons appointed as proxies of by reason of age.
shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to vote on a show of hands, as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general meetings.
Holders of Directors are not required, under the Companys Articles of Association, to hold any the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
shares of the Company as a qualification to act as a director, although executive directors participating in long term incentive plans must comply with the Companys Under English law, two shareholders present in person constitute a quorum for share ownership guidelines.
In accordance with best practice in the UK for corporate purposes of a general meeting, unless a companys articles of association specify governance, compensation awarded to executive directors is decided by a otherwise.
The Companys Articles of Association do not specify otherwise, except remuneration committee consisting exclusively of non-executive directors.
that the shareholders do not need to be present in person, and may instead be present by proxy, to constitute a quorum.
In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, the Board has, since 2003, prepared a report to shareholders on the directors Under English law, shareholders of a public company such as the Company are remuneration which complies with the Regulations see pages 71 to 81. not permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
The report is also subject to a shareholder vote.
Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak and vote on Rights attaching to the Companys shares a poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the Companys shareholders At 31 March 2008, the issued share capital of the Company was comprised of by the Depositarys appointment of them as corporate representatives with 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each, 53,127,598,035 ordinary respect to the underlying ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively, 3 shares excluding treasury shares of US$0.11 7 each and 87,429,138 B shares holders of ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the of 15 pence each.
Depositary or its nominee, who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs in accordance with their instructions.
Dividend rights Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid in respect of Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group Share each financial year, or other accounting period of the Company, a fixed cumulative Incentive Plan and My ShareBank a vested share account through the preferential dividend of 7% per annum on the nominal value of the fixed rate respective plans trustees.
A preferential dividend may only be paid out of available distributable profits which the directors have resolved should be distributed.
The fixed rate Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only entitled to shares do not have any other right to share in the Companys profits.
vote on any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached to the fixed rate shares.
Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% cumulative fixed rate share.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended Holders of B shares are only entitled to vote on a proposal to wind up the by the directors.
The Board of directors may also pay interim dividends.
No Company and have one vote for every fully paid B share held.
dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares will be announced in pounds sterling.
Holders of ordinary Liquidation rights shares with a registered address in a euro zone country defined, for this purpose, In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and as a country that has adopted the euro as its national currency will receive their deductions in accordance with English law, the holders of the Companys 7% dividends in euros, exchanged from pounds sterling at a rate fixed by the Board cumulative fixed rate shares would be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid of directors in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Dividends for ADS up on such shares, together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders holders represented by ordinary shares held by the Depositary will be paid to the of the Companys ordinary shares.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not have Depositary in US dollars, exchanged from pounds sterling at a rate fixed by the any other right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, and the Depositary will distribute them to the ADS holders.
The holders of B shares will be entitled, before any payment to holders of the Companys ordinary shares but after any payment to holders of the Companys If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the resolution 7% cumulative fixed rate shares, to repayment of the amount paid up or treated to passed at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the resolution of the be paid up on the nominal value of each B share, together with any outstanding Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 143 Vodafone Additional Information Shareholder Information continued entitlement to the B share continuing dividend up to the future redemption date of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the immediately before the liquidation.
The holders of B shares do not have any other Deposit Agreement relating to the ADSs.
right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
Under Section 336 of the Companies Act 2006, the annual general meeting Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares of shareholders must be held each calendar year and within six months of the Under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, directors are, with certain Companys year end.
exceptions, unable to allot relevant securities without the authority of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Relevant securities as defined in the Electronic communications Companies Act include the Companys ordinary shares or securities convertible The Company may, subject to and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, into the Companys ordinary shares.
In addition, Section 89 of the Companies Act communicate all shareholder information by electronic means, including by 1985 imposes further restrictions on the issue of equity securities as defined in making such information available on a website, with notification that such the Companies Act, which include the Companys ordinary shares and securities information shall be available on the website.
convertible into ordinary shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash and not first offered to existing shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association Variation of rights allow shareholders to authorise directors for a period up to five years to allot If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, a relevant securities generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders and the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the b equity securities for cash other than in connection with a rights issue up to Companies Acts, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three fourths an amount specified by the shareholders and free of the restriction in Section 89. in nominal value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the amount of relevant resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
securities to be fixed by shareholders is normally restricted to one third of the existing issued ordinary share capital, and the amount of equity securities to be At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association issued for cash other than in connection with a rights issue is restricted to 5% relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is of the existing issued ordinary share capital.
to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby persons acquiring, shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any person holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder will to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although such requirements have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
exist under rules derived by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in sharing in profits or assets The basic disclosure requirement upon a person acquiring or disposing of shares of the Company or by a redemption or repurchase of the shares by the Company.
carrying voting rights is an obligation to provide written notification to the Company, including certain details as set out in DTR 5, where the percentage Limitations on voting and shareholding of the persons voting rights which he holds as shareholder or through his direct As far as the Company is aware, there are no limitations imposed on the transfer, or indirect holding of financial instruments falling within DTR 5.3.
1R reaches holding or voting of the Companys shares other than those limitations that would or exceeds 3% and reaches, exceeds or falls below each 1% threshold thereafter.
generally apply to all of the shareholders.
No shareholder has any securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by notice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to Documents on display believe is, or was during the preceding three years, interested in the Companys The Company is subject to the information requirements of the US Securities and shares to indicate whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain information as set these requirements, the Company files its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other out in the Companies Act 2006.
DTR 3 deals with the disclosure by persons related documents with the SEC.
These documents may be inspected at the discharging managerial responsibility and their connected persons of the SECs public reference rooms located at 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549. occurrence of all transactions conducted on their account in the shares in the Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the Company.
Part 28 of The Companies Act 2006 sets out the statutory functions US by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some of the Companys of the Panel on Takeovers & Mergers the Panel.
The Panel is responsible for SEC filings, including all those filed on or after 4 November 2002, are available on issuing and administering the Code on Takeovers & Mergers and governs disclosure the SECs website at www.
Shareholders can also obtain copies of the requirements on all parties to a takeover with regard to dealings in the securities Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association from the Vodafone website of an offeror or offeree company and also on their respective associates during at www.
com or from the Companys registered office.
the course of an offer period.
Debt securities General meetings and notices Pursuant to an Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated Annual general meetings are held at such times and place as determined by the as of 24 July 2007, by and among the Company, The Bank of New York Mellon directors of the Company.
The directors may also, when they think fit, convene and Citibank N. A, The Bank of New York Mellon has become the successor trustee an extraordinary general meeting of the Company.
General meetings may also to Citibank N. A. under the Companys Indenture dated as of 10 February 2000. be convened on requisition as provided by the Companies Acts.
Material contracts An annual general meeting and an extraordinary general meeting called for the At the date of this Annual Report, the Group is not party to any contracts that are passing of a special resolution needs to be called by not less than twenty-one considered material to the Groups results or operations, except for its $11.3 billion days notice in writing and all other extraordinary general meetings by not less credit facilities which are discussed under Financial Position and Resources on than fourteen days notice in writing.
The directors may determine that persons page 57. entitled to receive notices of meetings are those persons entered on the register at the close of business on a day determined by the directors but not later than Exchange controls twenty-one days before the date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may also There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or affect specify the record date, which shall not be more than forty-eight hours before the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange the time fixed for the meeting.
controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the Groups operations, except as otherwise set out under Taxation below.
Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far as the Companies Acts allow an electronic address or fax number in the United Kingdom Taxation in order to be entitled to receive notices of shareholders meetings and other As this is a complex area, investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding notices and documents.
In certain circumstances, the Company may give notices the US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and to shareholders by advertisement in newspapers in the United Kingdom.
Holders disposing of shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances.
144 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, in general A US holder is not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in gross terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of owning income for US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company held as capital assets for US and actually received from the Company, and the receipt of a dividend does not entitle UK tax purposes.
This section does not, however, cover the tax consequences for the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
members of certain classes of holders subject to special rules including officers of the Company, employees and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, more of the Companys voting stock.
The tax consequences of the return of or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the capital and the share consolidation undertaken during the 2007 financial year dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally pursuant to a B share scheme are also not covered in this section.
Guidance for allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US holders of B shares in certain specific circumstances was included in the Circular corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States.
for the issue of B shares, a copy of which is available on the Companys website Dividends paid in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2007 generally will at www.
be passive or financial services income, and dividends paid in taxable years beginning after 31 December 2006 generally will be passive or general A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal income income, which in either case is treated separately from other types of income tax purposes: for the purposes of computing any allowable foreign tax credit.
a citizen or resident of the United States: In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution to be included a US domestic corporation: in income will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made, an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax regardless determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date of the dividend of its source: or distribution, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all during the period from the date the dividend payment is to be included in income substantial decisions of the trust.
to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Generally, the gain or loss will be income or loss from sources If a partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treatment of within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership holding the shares or ADSs should Taxation of capital gains consult its tax advisor with regard to the US federal income tax treatment of an UK taxation investment in the shares or ADSs.
A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the disposal of the Companys shares or ADSs if the US holder is: This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, published a citizen of the United States resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes rulings and court decisions, and on the tax laws of the United Kingdom and the in the United Kingdom: Double Taxation Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom a citizen of the United States who has been resident or ordinarily resident for the Treaty, all as currently in effect.
These laws are subject to change, UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom, ceased to be so resident or ordinarily possibly on a retroactive basis.
resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and who disposed of the shares or ADSs during that period a Temporary Non-Resident, unless the This section is further based in part upon the representations of the Depositary shares or ADSs were also acquired during that period, such liability arising on and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related that individuals return to the UK: agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
a US domestic corporation resident in the United Kingdom by reason of being centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom: or Based on this assumption, for purposes of the Treaty and the US-UK double a citizen of the United States or a US domestic corporation that carries on a taxation convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency and for US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing or, in the case of US domestic companies, through a permanent establishment ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares in the Company represented by and that has used the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, profession those ADSs.
Generally, exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, will not or vocation or has used, held or acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax, other than stamp duty or stamp of such branch or agency or permanent establishment.
duty reserve tax see the section on these taxes below.
Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are generally Taxation of dividends subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant holder as determined UK Taxation under both the laws of the United Kingdom and the United States and as required Under current UK tax law, no withholding tax will be deducted from dividends paid by the terms of the Treaty.
However, individuals who are residents of either the by the Company.
A shareholder that is a company resident for UK tax purposes United Kingdom or the United States and who have been residents of the other in the United Kingdom will not be taxable on a dividend it receives from the jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years Company.
A shareholder in the Company who is an individual resident for UK tax immediately preceding the relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject to purposes in the United Kingdom is entitled, in calculating their liability to UK tax with respect to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs income tax, to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on shares in the Company not only in the country of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition, or ADSs, and the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
but also in that other country although, in respect of UK taxation, generally only to the extent that such an individual comprises a Temporary Non-Resident.
US Federal Income Taxation Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder is subject to US federal US federal income taxation income taxation on the gross amount of any dividend paid by the Company out Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal of the Companys shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in tax years income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the beginning before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will amount realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the ordinary or ADSs.
Generally, a capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121 day period in tax years beginning before 1 January 2011 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15%, beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other provided the holder has a holding period of more than one year.
The gain or loss holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the Company with respect to the will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
The deductibility of losses is subject to limitations.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 145
