AUDIT OPINIONS AUDIT OPINION PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 Independent Auditors report to the members Opinion of Charter International plc In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair We have audited the accompanying parent company financial view of the financial position of the parent company as of statements of Charter International plc which comprise the 31 December 2008, and of the financial performance of the balance sheet as of 31 December 2008 and the income parent company for the year then ended in accordance with UK statement, for the year then ended and a summary of significant Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
We have also Practice and have been properly prepared in accordance with audited the information in the Directors Remuneration report the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. that is described as having been audited, in accordance with This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and the Listing Rules.
only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Directors responsibility for the Financial Statements Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume presentation of these financial statements in accordance responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to with UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Accounting Practice and with the requirements of Jersey law.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and  LLP maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and Chartered Accountants fair presentation of financial statements that are free from London material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting 27 February 2009 and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Charter International Auditors responsibility website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and for any changes that may have occurred to the financial Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Those Standards statements since they were initially presented on the website.
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the b Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and financial statements are free from material misstatement.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the Auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
