56 AUDIT OPINION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors report to the members We read other information contained in the Annual Report of Charter International plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have audited the accompanying Group financial statements statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors of Charter International plc which comprise the consolidated Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration balance sheet as of 31 December 2008 and the consolidated Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial income statement, statement of recognised income and Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and all of the expense and cash flow statement for the year then ended other information listed on the contents page.
We consider and a summary of significant accounting policies and other the implications for our report if we become aware of any explanatory notes.
We have also audited the information in the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to audited, in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Directors responsibility for the Financial Statements Opinion The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view presentation of these financial statements in accordance of the financial position of the Group as of 31 December 2008, with International Financial Reporting Standards and with and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group the requirements of Jersey law.
This responsibility includes: for the year then ended in accordance with International designing, implementing and maintaining internal control Financial Reporting Standards and have been properly prepared relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey statements that are free from material misstatement, whether Law 1991. due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with are reasonable in the circumstances.
Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no other Auditors responsibility purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Those Standards  LLP require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and Chartered Accountants perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the London financial statements are free from material misstatement.
27 February 2009 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit Notes: evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial a The maintenance and integrity of the Charter International statements.
The procedures selected depend on the Auditors website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Auditor considers for any changes that may have occurred to the financial internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair statements since they were initially presented on the website.
presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, b Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the dissemination of financial statements may differ from effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also legislation in other jurisdictions.
includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
