Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 March 2008 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Big Yellow Group PLC is a Company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is 2 The Deans, Bridge Road, Bagshot, Surrey, GU19 5AT.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Business Review on pages 6 to 11.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Groups financial instruments and management of capital see note 17.
Four Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period.
These are: IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
These Interpretations have not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
The Group has adopted IFRIC 11, which made certain amendments to IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
There is no effect on the Group of this standard, however the Company accounts are affected.
See note C of the Company only accounts for details of this change.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 8 Operating segments: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 : and IFRIC14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The Group has considered the impact of IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The principal change to the Standard, is to eliminate the previously available option to expense all borrowing costs as incurred.
The Group does not currently capitalise interest on its development properties, which will become compulsory under the standard.
The Group intends to adopt this accounting policy early for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Basis of accounting The annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2007.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis except that investment properties and derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The principal accounting polices have been applied consistently, to the results, other gains and losses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of entities included in the consolidated financial statements in the current and preceding year.
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of Big Yellow Group PLC and all its subsidiaries at the year end using acquisition accounting principles.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Big Yellow 47 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2008 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Investment in subsidiaries These are recognised at cost less provision for any impairment.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale see below.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Where a Group Company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Non current assets held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts derived from the provision of services which fall within the Groups ordinary activities after deduction of trade discounts and any applicable value added tax.
Income is recognised over the period for which the storage unit is occupied by the customer.
The Group recognises non-storage income over the period in which it is earned.
The Group recognises investment income over the period in which it is earned.
Fees earned from Big Yellow Limited Partnership are recognised over the period for which the services are provided.
Franchises fees are recognised in the income statement as they fall contractually due to the Group.
Finance leases Assets held under finance leases, disclosed within interest in leasehold properties, are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are accounted for on an accrual basis in the income statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying value amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Finance Costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
48 Big Yellow Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2008 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Operating profit Operating profit is stated after gains on revaluation of investment properties and after the share of results of associates and before gains and losses on non-current assets, investment income and finance costs.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from the net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates substantively enacted at the balance sheet date that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Plant, equipment & owner occupied property All property, plant and equipment, not classified as investment or development property, are carried at historic cost less depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided on cost in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The useful economic lives of the assets are as follows: Freehold property 50 years Freehold improvements 20 years Leasehold improvements Over period of the lease Plant and machinery 10 years Fixtures and fittings 5 years Computer equipment 3 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Investment property Investment properties are properties owned or leased by the Group which are held for rental income and for capital appreciation.
Investment property is initially recognised at cost and revalued at the balance sheet date to fair value as determined by professionally qualified external valuers.
In accordance with IAS40, investment property held leasehold is stated gross of the recognised finance lease liability.
Gains or losses arising from the changes in fair value of investment property are included in the income statement of the period in which they arise.
In accordance with IAS40, as the Group uses the fair value model, no depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties including integral plant.
Development property Properties and land under development are recognised at historic cost less any provision for impairment.
The assets are transferred to investment properties once the store has opened to customers.
Any gains and losses on development property are recognised through the income statement.
Big Yellow 49 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2008 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Impairment of assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net selling price and its value-in-use i. e. the NPV of its future cash flows discounted at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects the borrowing costs and risk for the asset.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of interest rates.
The Group uses interest rate swap and interest rate collar contracts to hedge these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The policy in respect of interest rates is to maintain a balance between flexibility and the hedging of interest rate risk.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate derivatives at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
The Group has not adopted hedge accounting.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
B Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
C Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
D Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash and short term deposits.
The carrying amounts of these assets approximates to the fair value.
E Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
F Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
G Trade Receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
H Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
50 Big Yellow Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2008 2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Retirement benefit costs Pension costs represent contributions payable to defined contribution schemes and are charged to as an expense to the income statement as they fall due.
The assets of which are held separately from those of the Group.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 1 April 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the share-based payment is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an option pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that may affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual outcomes may therefore differ from these estimates and assumptions.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Estimate of Fair Value of Investment Properties The Group values its self storage centres using a discounted cash flow methodology which is based on projections of net operating income.
Principal assumptions underlying managements estimation of the fair value are those related to: stabilised occupancy levels: expected future growth in storage rents and operating costs: maintenance requirements: capitalisation rates and discount rates.
A more detailed explanation of the background and methodology adopted in the valuation of the Groups investment properties is set out in note 14 to the accounts.
b Development Property The Groups development properties are held in the balance sheet at historic cost and are not valued externally.
In acquiring sites for redevelopment into self storage facilities, the Group estimates and makes judgements on the potential net lettable storage space that it can achieve in its planning negotiations, together with the time it will take to achieve maturity occupancy level.
In addition, assumptions are made on the storage rent that can be achieved at the store by comparing with other stores within the portfolio and within the local area.
These judgements taken together with estimates of operating costs and the projected construction cost, allow the Group to calculate the potential net operating income at maturity, projected returns on capital invested and hence to support the purchase price of the site at acquisition.
Following the acquisition, regular reviews are carried out taking into account the status of planning negotiations, revised construction costs or capacity of the new facility, for example, to make an assessment of the carrying value of the development property at historic cost.
Once a store is opened, then it is valued as an investment property in the Groups balance sheet and transferred from development properties.
The Group reviews all development property assets for impairment at each balance sheet date.
