Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 March 2008 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Big Yellow Group PLC is a Company incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is 2 The Deans, Bridge Road, Bagshot, Surrey, GU19 5AT.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Business Review on pages 6 to 11.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Groups financial instruments and management of capital see note 17.
Four Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period.
These are: IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
These Interpretations have not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
The Group has adopted IFRIC 11, which made certain amendments to IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
There is no effect on the Group of this standard, however the Company accounts are affected.
See note C of the Company only accounts for details of this change.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 8 Operating segments: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 : and IFRIC14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The Group has considered the impact of IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The principal change to the Standard, is to eliminate the previously available option to expense all borrowing costs as incurred.
The Group does not currently capitalise interest on its development properties, which will become compulsory under the standard.
The Group intends to adopt this accounting policy early for the year ended 31 March 2009.
Basis of accounting The annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has applied all accounting standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee relevant to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2007.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis except that investment properties and derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made up to 31 March each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The principal accounting polices have been applied consistently, to the results, other gains and losses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of entities included in the consolidated financial statements in the current and preceding year.
The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of Big Yellow Group PLC and all its subsidiaries at the year end using acquisition accounting principles.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
