Glossary of Terms Annualised net rents are gross rents as at reporting date plus, where rent reviews are Occupancy rate is estimated rental value of let units expressed as a percentage of the outstanding, any increases to estimated rental value as determined by the Groups total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
external valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
Open A1 is a planning consent enabling the sale of a wide range of goods, including Development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a project to completion, food, fashion, footwear, books, electronics and household goods as set out in The excluding site values and finance costs.
Town and Country Planning Use Classes Order 1987.
EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association.
Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head leases.
EPRA earnings is the profit after taxation excluding investment property revaluations Planning Consent gives consent for a development, and covers matters such as use and and gains losses on disposals, intangible asset movements and their related taxation.
Full details of the development scheme must be provided in an application for full planning consent, including detailed design, external appearance and landscaping EPRA net assets EPRA NAV are the balance sheet net assets excluding the mark to before a project can proceed.
Outline planning consent establishes the broad outline of market on effective cash flow hedges and related debt adjustments, deferred taxation the scheme and is subject to the later approval of the details of the design.
on revaluations and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable under employee share schemes.
Property Income Distribution PID As a REIT the Group is now obliged to distribute 90% of the tax exempt profits.
These dividends, which are referred to as PIDs, are subject to EPRA NAVper share is EPRA NAV divided by the diluted number of shares at the withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax.
Certain classes of shareholders may period end.
qualify to receive the dividend gross.
The Group can also make other normal dividend payments which are taxed in the EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of debt and derivatives usual way.
and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
Real Estate Investment Trust REIT A listed property company which qualifies for and Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open has elected into a tax regime, which exempts qualifying UK property rental income and market rent, which on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be gains on investment property disposals from corporation tax.
British Land converted to obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external valuers, where the represents the return a property will produce based upon the timing of the income passing rent is below the current estimated rental value.
The increases to rent arise on received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the rent reviews, letting of vacant space and expiry of rent free periods.
Groups external valuers assume rent received annually in arrears and on values after deducting prospective purchasers costs.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
Group is The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries and excludes its share of funds and joint ventures.
Tenant or lease incentives are any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the incentive will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio expressed as a to fit-out or similar costs.
Under accounting rules the value of lease incentives given percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding development properties.
to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a straight-line basis to the earliest lease termination.
Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered by underlying profit before net interest payable and taxation.
Total return is the growth in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends paid expressed as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning of the period.
It may be stated IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd which produces an independent before net refinancing charges or other exceptional items pre-exceptional.
Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, Like-for-like ERV growth is the increase in ERV over a period on the standing investment assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
properties expressed as a percentage of the ERV at the start of the period.
Underlying earnings per share EPS consists of underlying profit after tax divided by Like-for-like rental income growth is the growth in gross rental income on properties the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
owned throughout the current and previous periods under review.
This growth rate includes revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments but excludes Underlying profit before tax is the profit for the period before taxation after excluding properties held for development in either period, properties with guaranteed rent amortisation of intangible assets and impairment charges, net valuation gains losses reviews, asset management determinations, surrender premiums and back rent including profits on disposals, other receivables of a capital nature, net refinancing adjustments.
charges and costs relating to REIT conversion.
Loan to value LTV is the ratio of gross debt less cash and short-term deposits to the Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a percentage aggregate value of properties and investments.
of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Mark to market is the difference between the book value of an asset or liability and its Virtual freehold represents a leasehold tenure for a period usually between 99 to 999 market value.
The total rent payable for the full term is paid upon commencement and a peppercorn rental is paid annually.
Market value in relation to property assets is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration Weighted average debt maturity.
Each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by the on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers see Valuation remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group debt in issue Certificate.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report at the period end.
valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the period end.
Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after payment of ground rents and net property outgoings.
Net rental income will differ from annualised net rents Weighted average lease term is the average lease term remaining to expiry across the and passing rent due to the effects of income from rent reviews, net property outgoings portfolio weighted by rental income.
This is also disclosed assuming all break clauses are and accounting adjustments for fixed and minimum guaranteed rent reviews and exercised at the earliest date, as stated.
Excludes short-term licences and residential leases.
Yield shift is a movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
108 The British Land Company PLC Glossary of Terms Contents 1 Foreword 56 Financing Policy 2 Corporate Strategy 57 Principal Debt Instruments 3 Financial Summary 60 Valuation Certificate 6 Chairmans Statement 64 Directors and Officers 65 Corporate Governance 8 Chief Executives Statement 69 Remuneration Report 78 Report of the Directors 12 Business Review Introduction 80 Financial Statements Objectives and Strategy Consolidated Income Statement Activity during the Year 81 Consolidated Balance Sheet 14 Sector and Asset Selection 82 Consolidated Statement of 17 Asset Management Recognised Income and Expense 20 Development 83 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 24 Portfolio Valuation 26 Retail Sector 84 Notes to the Accounts 28 Office Sector 85 Performance Measures 32 Financial Performance 87 Staff Costs 34 Financing and Capital Structure 89 Property 36 Key Performance Indicators 90 Funds and Joint Ventures Risk Management 93 Net Debt 37 Partnerships 96 Dividend 39 People 99 Report of the Auditors Corporate Responsibility Business Review 100 Table A Summary Income Statement Directors Responsibility Statement and Balance Sheet based on Proportional Consolidation Head Office and Registered Office 42 Portfolio Description 102 Company Balance Sheet and Notes York House Out-of-Town Retail 105 Ten Year Record 45 Seymour Street 44 Superstores 106 Financial Calendar London W1H 7LX 45 Meadowhall 107 Shareholder Information Telephone 44 0 207 486 4466 46 In-Town Retail 108 Glossary of Terms Fax 44 0 207 935 5552 47 London Offices www.
com 49 Regents Place 51 Developments Designed by CDT Design Photography by Ben Rice Copywriting by Tim Shackleton Printed by Fulmar Colour Cover and pages 164: printed on HannoArt Silk, pages 65108: printed on Challenger Offset, both comprise fibres sourced from well-managed forests, incorporating FSC certified fibre and bleached without the use of chlorine.
The production mill for this paper operates to EMAS, ISO 14001 environmental and ISO 9001 quality standards.
Cover: Trees grown in a green nursery are to be planted at the Osnaburgh Street development.
They will enhance the visual environment and help London breathe.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Beyond Buildings Annual Report & Accounts 2008
