Notes to the Accounts 1 Basis of preparation The financial statements forthe year ending 31March 2008 have been prepared on the historical Financial assets and liabilities cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties, investments and derivatives.
The financial Trade receivables and payables are initially recognised at fairvalue and subsequently statements have also been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting measured at amortised cost and discounted as appropriate.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of Other investments are shown at fairvalue and held as available for sale.
Gains and losses EU IAS Regulation.
arising from changes in fairvalue are recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed These accounting policies have been applied consistently in all material respects.
of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised The accounting policies used are consistent with those contained in the Groups last in equity is included in the income statement forthe period.
Impairment losses recognised in the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007, with the exception of the income statement are not subsequently reversed through the income statement.
adoption of IFRS 7: Financial Instruments: Disclosures: the early adoption of IFRS 8: Operating Where an investment property is held under a head lease it is initially recognised as an Segments and the presentation of the Cash Flow Statement under the direct method.
These asset as the sum of the premium paid on acquisition and the present value of minimum ground changes have no impact on the Groups net assets or profits before tax and the comparative rent payments.
The corresponding rent liability to the head leaseholder is included in the results have been restated on a consistent basis.
balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Standards and guidelines relevant to the Group that were in issue at the date of approval of Debt instruments are stated at their net proceeds on issue.
Finance charges including the financial statements but not effective forthe current accounting period were: IFRIC 14 IAS 19 premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are spread over the The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction: and period to redemption, using the effective interest method.
amendments to: IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements: IAS 27: Consolidated and Separate As defined by IAS 39, cash flow and fairvalue hedges are carried at fairvalue in the Financial Statements: IFRS 2: Share-Based Payment: and IFRS 3: Business Combinations.
Changes in the fairvalue of derivatives that are designated and qualify as pronouncements, when applied, are not expected to have a material impact on the financial effective cash flow hedges are recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Changes in the fair statements, but will result in changes to presentation or disclosure.
value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as effective fairvalue hedges are recorded Critical accounting judgements are disclosed in the relevant section of the Annual Report, in the income statement, along with any changes in the fairvalue of the hedged item that is see page 34.
The key source of estimation and uncertainty relates to the valuation of the attributable to the hedged risk.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
property portfolio and investments, where an external valuation is obtained.
Other less Cash equivalents are limited to instruments with a maturity of less than three months.
significant assumptions include the actuarial assumptions used in calculating the Groups retirement benefit obligations, the valuation of fixed rate debt and interest rate derivatives, Net rental income and the share-based payment expense.
The potential for management to make judgements Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
A rent adjustment based on open market or estimates relating to these that would have a significant impact on the financial statements estimated rental value is recognised from the rent review date in relation to unsettled rent is considered, by the nature of Group business, to be limited.
Where a rent-free period is included in a lease, the rental income foregone is allocated evenly over the period from the date of lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates including funds Rental income from fixed and minimum guaranteed rent reviews is recognised on a The consolidated accounts include the accounts of The British Land Company PLC and all straight-line basis over the shorter of the entire lease term or the period to the first break option.
subsidiaries entities controlled by British Land.
Control is assumed where British Land has Where such rental income is recognised ahead of the related cash flow, an adjustment is made the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to gain to ensure the carrying value of the related property including the accrued rent does not exceed benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates acquired or disposed of during Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging a new lease are amortised on the year are included from the effective date of acquisition or to the effective date of disposal.
a straight-line basis over the period from the date of lease commencement to the earliest Accounting practices of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates which differ from Group termination date.
accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
Where a lease incentive payment, including surrender premiums paid, does not enhance Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method.
Any excess of the value of a property, it is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period from the date of the purchase price of business combinations over the fairvalue of the assets, liabilities and lease commencement to the earliest termination date.
Upon receipt of a surrender premium contingent liabilities acquired and resulting deferred tax thereon is recognised as goodwill.
for the early determination of a lease, the profit, net of dilapidations and non-recoverable Any discount received is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
All outgoings relating to the lease concerned is immediately reflected in income.
intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Joint ventures and associates, including funds, are accounted for under the equity method, Management and performance fees whereby the consolidated balance sheet incorporates the Groups share of the net assets of its Management and performance fees receivable are recognised in the period to which they joint ventures and associates.
The consolidated income statement incorporates the Groups relate, except for performance fee retentions subject to clawback, which are recognised over share of joint venture and associate profits after tax.
Their profits include revaluation the clawback performance period.
In assessing the risk of clawback, account is taken of the movements on investment properties.
unpredictability of future relative performance against the benchmark.
Properties Taxation Properties are externally valued on an open market basis at the balance sheet date.
Current tax is based on taxable profit forthe year and is calculated using tax rates that have been Investment and development properties are recorded at valuation.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income Any surplus or deficit arising on revaluing investment properties or investment properties statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are not taxable or tax deductible.
being redeveloped is recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax is provided on items that may become taxable at a later date, on the Valuation surpluses arising on other development properties, those not previously difference between the balance sheet value and tax base value, on an undiscounted basis.
classified as investment properties, are reflected in the statement of recognised income and On business combinations, the deferred tax effect of fairvalue adjustments is incorporated expense, unless a deficit reduces the value below cost, in which case the deficit is charged to in the consolidated balance sheet.
The cost of properties in the course of development includes attributable interest and Employee costs other associated outgoings.
Interest is calculated on the development expenditure by reference The fairvalue of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date to specific borrowings where relevant and otherwise on the average rate applicable to shortof grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups term loans.
Interest is not capitalised where no development activity is taking place.
A property estimate of shares or options that will eventually vest.
In the case of options granted, fairvalue ceases to be treated as a development property on practical completion.
is measured by a Black-Scholes pricing model.
Compensation linked to performance fees Disposals are recognised on completion: profits and losses arising are recognised through accrued by the Group is amortised over the vesting period.
the income statement, the profit on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using fairvalues: pension scheme proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset at the commencement of the accounting period liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit method and discounted at the rate of plus additions in the period.
return of a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term to the scheme liabilities.
The net In determining whether leases and related properties represent operating or finance leases, surplus or deficit is recognised in full in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any asset resulting from consideration is given to whetherthe tenant or landlord bears the risks and rewards of ownership.
the calculation is limited to past service costs plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Intangible assets The current service cost and gains and losses on settlement and curtailments are charged Intangible assets, such as fund management contracts, acquired through business to operating profit.
Past service costs are recognised in the income statement if the benefits combinations, are measured initially at fairvalue and are amortised on a straight-line basis have vested or, if they have not vested, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period over their estimated useful lives, and are subject to regular reviews for impairment.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Goodwill Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are expensed on the basis of Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the the contracted annual contribution.
Groups interest in the fairvalue of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity at the time of acquisition.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
84 The British Land Company PLC Notes to the Accounts
