Advisers Auditors Solicitors Ernst & Young LLP Allen & Overy LLP Registered Auditor One Bishops Square 1 More London Place London E1 6AO London SE1 2AF Clifford Chance LLP 10 Upper Bank Street Bankers Canary Wharf HSBC Bank PLC London E14 5JJ 31 Holborn Edwards Duthie London EC1N 2HR 9 15 York Road National Westminster Bank PLC Ilford 1 Hatton Garden Essex IG1 3AD London EC1P 1DU Isadore Goldman 12 Bridewell Place Financial advisers Citigroup London EC4V 6AP 33 Canada Square Olswang Canary Wharf 90 High Holborn London E14 5LB London WC1V 6XX Nomura International plc S J Berwin LLP 25 Bank Street 10 Queen Street Place Canary Wharf London EC4R 1BE London E14 5LS Stockbrokers Registrars Citigroup Computershare Investor Services PLC 33 Canada Square PO Box 82 Canary Wharf The Pavilions London E14 5LB Bridgwater Road Nomura International plc Bristol BS99 7NH 25 Bank Street Canary Wharf London E14 5LS Valuers CB Richard Ellis St Martins Court 10 Paternoster Row London EC4M 7HP King Sturge 30 Warwick Street London W1B 5NH 80 www.
uk Glossary of Terms Adjusted earnings per share EPS Earnings per share based on investment profit.
Adjusted net asset value NAV Net asset value per share adjusted to add back deferred tax on investment properties per share and the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
Dividend cover Adjusted EPS divided by dividend per share.
Earnings per share Profit after taxation divided by the average number of shares in issue during the year.
Enterprise value The sum of the market capitalisation of a company and the market value of its debt.
Equivalent yield The weighted average yield based on the initial yield and the reversionary yield.
Estimated Rental Value ERV The estimated market rental value of space ascribed by the external valuers.
Gearing Net debt expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Initial yield running yield The initial return derived from a property calculated by dividing the current rent by the capital value.
The net initial yield includes the value of undeveloped sites, unlet developments and portfolio vacancies.
No income for these elements is applied in this calculation or allowed if there are rent free periods.
Normal purchasers costs are also allowed for.
Interest cover Net rental income divided by net interest expense before capitalised interest.
income cover Interest rate swap An agreement with another party to exchange an interest rate obligation for a predetermined period of time.
Investment profit underlying profit Profit before tax excluding net profit on investment properties, changes in fair value of before tax derivative financial instruments and exceptional items.
It is the recurring measure of profitability for a UK REIT and is based on our rental income activities.
A global information business supplying independent market indices and portfolio benchmarks to the property industry.
Net asset value per share Shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue at the year end.
Over-rented Space that is let at a rent above its ERV.
Passing rent The annual contracted rental income receivable which may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary.
Pre-let A lease signed with a tenant prior to commencement of construction of a development.
Real Estate Investment Trust REIT A quoted company that owns income producing commercial or residential property and which has elected for REIT status under UK tax legislation.
Profits and capital gains from its qualifying property rental business are exempt from tax if certain conditions are satisfied e. g. at least 75% of profits are derived from the qualifying property rental business and 90% of those profits, after deductions, are distributed to shareholders.
Return on equity Share price movement between the ends of the current and previous years plus the dividend per share declared for the current year divided by the share price at the end of the previous year.
Reversionary or under-rented Space where passing rent is below the ERV.
Reversionary yield The anticipated yield once the passing rent reaches the ERV, calculated by dividing the ERV by the capital value.
ROEV Return on Enterprise Value: operating profit including share of joint ventures operating profit divided by the Enterprise Value.
Total return on property Net rental income and capital growth expressed as a percentage of opening book value adjusted for capital expenditure during the year.
Total shareholder return Adjusted NAV per share movement between the ends of the current and previous years plus the dividend per share declared for the current year divided by the adjusted NAV per share at the end of the previous year.
WACC Weighted Average Cost of Capital: the weighted average of the costs of equity and debt capital that finance a company.
Brixton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BX004 Cover v1 AW8.
qxp:Layout 1 22 4 09 16:57 Page 1 Head Ofce 50 Berkeley Street London W1J 8BX Annual Report and Accounts 2008 t: 44 0 20 7399 4500 www.
uk Designed by Black Sun Plc.
This report is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk paper.
This paper has been independently certied according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certied and CarbonNeutral
