Notes to the Company Accounts A Accounting policies i Accounting convention The Company accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes the Company will be able to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Companys cash flow forecasts show that it has adequate resources available to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In preparing these forecasts the Directors have taken into account the following matters that give rise to a material uncertainty: the potential breaches of various financing covenants if there are continued reductions in property valuations the successful completion of one or more of the options being pursued to provide additional financial flexibility including disposals of assets, debt renegotiations and an equity raising.
Having taken into account the above matters, the Directors have concluded, based on the cash flow forecasts, that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
Further details on the above uncertainty and the options being pursued are included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5, the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 and 7 and the Financial Review on pages 26 to 29. ii Investments in subsidiary undertakings Interests in subsidiary undertakings are carried in the Companys balance sheet at cost less provision for impairment.
iii Investment properties Properties are valued at the balance sheet date by the Companys external valuers.
The basis of valuation of properties is described in note D. Any surplus or deficit arising from revaluation is transferred to the revaluation reserve unless a deficit on an individual property is expected to become permanent in which case it is recognised in the profit and loss account for the year.
Interest and outgoings less rental income are capitalised on investment properties in the course of construction during the course of development.
A property ceases to be treated as being in the course of development at the earliest of the date when the property is physically complete and becomes available for occupation or the date when the development becomes fully let and income producing.
Leasehold properties where the lease has more than 150 years to expiry are classified as freehold.
iv Depreciation In accordance with SSAP 19 Accounting for Investment Properties, no depreciation or amortisation is provided in respect of freehold properties or leasehold properties with more than 20 years to run as the properties are held for investment and not for consumption.
v Deferred tax In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated, but not reversed at the balance sheet date that may give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
As all of the Companys investment properties are held as long term investments, deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of those assets.
Following the sale of a property any deferred tax provision not required will be released to the profit and loss account.
Deferred tax is measured on a nondiscounted basis.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or deferred tax liability is settled.
vi Financial instruments Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised at invoiced value, if that is not materially different from fair value, less provisions for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established where there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the agreed terms of the receivables concerned.
Cash and short term deposits Cash and short term deposits comprise cash on hand, deposits with banks, other short term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, net of bank overdrafts.
Interest bearing borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised at invoiced amount.
Derivative financial instruments The Company enters into derivative transactions such as interest rate swaps in order to manage the risks arising from its activities as described in more detail in the Risk Management section on page 30, the Financial Review on pages 26 to 29 and in note 19 of the Group accounts.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value and are remeasured to fair value as calculated by the counterparties based on market prices at subsequent balance sheet dates.
The Company does not apply hedge accounting to its derivative financial instruments and hence any change in the fair value of such derivatives is recognised immediately in the income statement as a finance cost.
vii Pensions The obligations of defined benefit pension schemes, representing benefits accruing to employees, are measured at discounted present value while scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
The discount rate used is the yield on AA credit rated corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Companys obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 73 Notes to the Company Accounts continued A Accounting policies continued The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the profit and loss account: service costs are spread systematically over the working lives of the employees concerned and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from either experience differing from previous actuarial assumptions or changes to those assumptions are recognised immediately in equity.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are expensed as incurred.
viii Share and share based remuneration The cost of equity settled transactions with employees and Directors is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised in the profit and loss account as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the individuals concerned become fully entitled to the award.
The charge is reversed if it appears likely that the performance criteria will not be met.
The Company has used a stochastic option valuation model in calculating the fair value of share options awarded.
ix Plant and equipment Plant and equipment comprise computers, motor vehicles, furniture, fixtures and fittings and improvements to Company offices.
These assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives are computers three years: motor vehicles four years: furniture 10 years: fixtures and fittings 10 years and improvements to Company offices 10 years.
B Profit and loss The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The loss for the year attributable to shareholders dealt with in the accounts of the Company was 275.7m 2007: profit of 48.5m.
C Cash flow The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available to it and has not prepared a statement of cash flows.
D Investment properties 2008 2007 m m Opening balance 61.7 61.6 Deficit surplus on valuation 18.9 0.1 Closing balance 42.8 61.7 The investment property was externally valued as at 31 December 2008 by King Sturge in accordance with the Appraisal and Valuation Standards of RICS on the basis of market value.
Market value represents the figure that would appear in a hypothetical contract of sale between a willing buyer and a willing seller.
Market value is estimated without regard to costs of sale.
King Sturge is an accredited independent valuer and an industry specialist in valuing this type of investment property.
The historical cost of the property at 31 December 2008 was 39.0m 2007: 39.0m.
Long leasehold properties where the lease has more than 150 years to expiry included in the above analysis, amounted to 42.8m 2007: 61.7m.
Investment property currently being redeveloped at 31 December 2008, included above, amounted to nil 2007: nil.
E Plant and equipment Other fixed assets comprise computers, motor vehicles, furniture, fixtures and fittings and improvements to Company offices.
Movements to cost and depreciated book value are set out in note 13 of the Group accounts.
F Investments in subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total m m m Cost Opening balance 1,325.8 348.4 1,674.2 Additions 67.0 67.0 Loans repaid in the year 99.7 99.7 Closing balance 1,392.8 248.7 1,641.5 Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance Impairment losses for the year 82.2 38.5 120.7 Closing balance 82.2 38.5 120.7 Net carrying amount At end of year 1,310.6 210.2 1,520.8 At start of year 1,325.8 348.4 1,674.2 The names and details of the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings are set out on page 78.
uk G Trade and other receivables 2008 2007 m m Current assets Rent and sundry receivables 0.3 0.2 Prepayments and accrued income 6.2 4.8 Total trade and other receivables 6.5 5.0 H Trade and other payables 2008 2007 m m Current liabilities Accruals and rent in advance 8.1 10.2 Other payables 3.0 5.2 Other taxes 4.9 1.5 16.0 16.9 I Borrowings Details of the Companys borrowings are as given for the consolidated Group in note 18 to the Group accounts.
J Derivative financial instruments Details of the Companys derivatives are as given for the consolidated Group in note 19 to the Group accounts.
The Companys only obligation is to pay interest and repay its bonds and loans at par value on the maturity dates.
L Share capital and share premium account Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital and share premium account are laid out in notes 22 and 23 to the Group accounts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 75 Notes to the Company Accounts continued M Retained earnings and other reserves Capital Realised redemption Revaluation capital Retained reserve reserve reserve loss earnings Total m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2008 0.1 22.7 525.9 97.3 646.0 Loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders 275.7 275.7 Dividends paid 50.2 50.2 Transfer from share premium account 60.9 60.9 Deficit on revaluation of properties 18.9 18.9 Employee share based remuneration 1.2 1.2 Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme 8.4 8.4 Balance at 31 December 2008 0.1 3.8 525.9 174.9 354.9 N Share based payments Details of the Companys share based payments granted to Directors and employees are as laid out in note 30 to the Group accounts.
O Net retirement benefit obligation Details of the Companys net retirement benefit obligation are as disclosed in note 31 to the Group accounts.
On 1 January 2007 the Industrious Scheme was transferred from a subsidiary of the Company to Brixton plc.
