List of definitions 95 Building Research Establishment Environmental Net assets per share or net asset value NAV Equity shareholders funds divided by the number Assessment Method BREEAM The BREEAM rating assesses the operational and the embodied of ordinary shares at the balance sheet date.
environmental impacts of individual buildings.
The ratings are Adjusted net asset value per share Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
NAV adjusted to exclude deferred tax on the property revaluation surplus and fair value adjustments to the IPD Central London Offices Index An index, compiled by Investment Property Databank carrying value of assets and liabilities.
Limited, of the central and inner London offices in their Recurring net property income quarterly valued universe.
Net property income excluding development income.
Capital return Recurring profit before taxation The annual valuation movement arising on the groups Profit before tax excluding development income, exceptional portfolio expressed as a percentage return on the valuation items, goodwill impairment, the revaluation movement in at the beginning of the year adjusted for acquisitions and investment properties and financial instruments and the capital expenditure.
profit on disposal of properties and investments.
Total return Earnings per share EPS The movement in adjusted net asset value per share between Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders divided the beginning and the end of each financial year plus the dividend by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue per share paid during the year, expressed as a percentage of during the financial year.
the adjusted net value per share at the beginning of the year.
Recurring earnings per share Total property return Earnings per share adjusted to exclude the after tax effect of The annual capital appreciation, net of capital expenditure, non-recurring items, profits or losses on sales of properties plus the net annual rental income received expressed as and investments, and the fair value adjustments to the carrying a percentage of capital employed.
value of assets and liabilities.
Total shareholder return Diluted earnings per share The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the Earnings per share adjusted to include the dilutive effects London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received of potential shares issuable under the groups share option for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price schemes.
However, a loss per share cannot be reduced at the beginning of the period.
by dilution in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share.
Rent roll Property Income Distribution PID The annualised contracted rental income, net of ground rents.
Dividends from profits of the groups tax-exempt property rental business under the REIT regulations.
Initial yield The rent roll generated by a property or by the portfolio as Non PID a whole expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
Where Dividends from profits of the groups taxable residual business.
applicable, the valuation is adjusted to include any capital Net debt expenditure required for scheme completion.
Borrowings plus bank overdraft and loans less cash True equivalent yield and cash equivalents.
The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash Balance sheet gearing flows from the portfolio, including current rent, reversions to valuers estimated rental value and such items as voids Net debt divided by net assets.
and expenditures, equates to the valuation having taken into Profit and loss gearing account notional purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received Current: quarterly in advance.
Recurring net property income, excluding reverse surrender Reversionary yield premiums and the write-down of trading properties, less administrative expenses divided by net interest payable, The anticipated yield based upon the valuers estimated rental value of a property or portfolio, expressed as a percentage of having reversed the re-allocation of ground rent payable on leasehold investment properties to interest payable.
Where applicable, the valuation is adjusted to include any capital expenditure required for scheme completion.
2009 onwards: Gross property income, excluding surrender premiums, less Reversion ground rent divided by interest payable on borrowings less The reversion is the difference between the rent roll of a interest receivable.
This is similar to the groups most commonly property or portfolio and the rental value as estimated by used interest cover ratio covenant.
The reversion is derived from contractual rental increases, rent reviews, lease renewals Property gearing The nominal value of borrowed funds divided by the fair value and the letting of vacant space.
This is equivalent to the loan to value Underlying portfolio calculations used in the groups bank covenants.
Properties that have been held for the whole of the financial year.
Ground rent Vacancy rate The rent payable by the group at its leasehold properties.
Under The rental value of vacant space in a property or portfolio, IFRS, these leases are treated as finance leases and the cost that is immediately available for occupation, expressed allocated between interest payable and property outgoings.
as a percentage of the estimated rental value.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008
