Statement of directors responsibilities 74 Directors responsibilities The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting T hey have complied with the above requirements in records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time preparing the financial statements which give a true and the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit assets of the company, for taking reasonable steps for the or loss of the company and the undertakings included in prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities the consolidation taken as a whole: and and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements The business review includes a fair review of the development of the Companies Act 1985. and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal and the financial statements in accordance with the Companies rules and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are also required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial statements are published on the groups website Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing Union IFRSs and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which have chosen to prepare financial statements for the company may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance in accordance with IFRSs.
and integrity of the groups website is the responsibility of the directors.
The directors responsibility also extends to the Group financial statements ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the groups On behalf of the board and companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This required the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the J. D. Burns C. J. Odom International Accounting Standards Boards Framework Chief executive officer Finance director for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
17th March 2009 In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires the directors to: consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008
