Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 83 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Property Income Distributions PIDs Earnings per share adjusted to exclude non-recurring items, profits Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property or losses on sales of investment properties property revaluations and rental business.
deferred tax on capital allowances and property revaluations on a Portfolio internal rate of return IRR diluted basis.
The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied to the Adjusted net assets per share projected cash flows from the portfolio would result in a net present NAV adjusted to exclude deferred tax on capital allowances value of zero.
and property revaluations on a diluted basis.
REIT Diluted figures UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
Reported amounts adjusted to include the effects of potential shares Rent roll issuable under the convertible bond.
The annual contracted rental income.
Earnings per share EPS Return on capital employed ROCE Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of ordinary Return on capital employed is measured as profit before financing shares in issue.
costs plus revaluation surplus on development property divided by EPRA adjustments the opening gross capital.
Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and adjusted NAV Return on shareholders equity as set out by the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA The growth in the adjusted diluted net assets per share plus dividends in their January 2006 Best Practice and Policy Recommendations.
per share for the period expressed as a percentage of the adjusted net Estimated rental value ERV assets per share at the beginning of the period.
The market rental value of lettable space as estimated by the Reversionary or under-rented Companys valuers at each balance sheet date.
The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, together with F&BS the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Finance and business services sector.
Reversionary yield IPD The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a company reaches the ERV.
that produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Total property return TPR IPD central London Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived from An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London holding these properties plus profit on sale of disposals expressed properties in their monthly and quarterly valued universes.
as a percentage return on the periods opening value.
Like-for-like portfolio Total shareholder return TSR Properties that have been held for the whole of the period The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London of account.
Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning Market value of the period.
The amount as estimated by the Companys valuers for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing Triple net asset value NNNAV buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups financial marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, liabilities on a diluted basis.
In line with market practice, True equivalent yield values are stated net of purchasers costs.
The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash flows Net assets per share or net asset value NAV from an investment property, including current rent, reversions Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ordinary shares to current market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, at the balance sheet date.
equates to the market value having taken into account notional purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
Net gearing Total borrowings less short-term deposits and cash as a percentage Voids of adjusted equity shareholders funds.
The element of a property which is unoccupied but available for letting, usually expressed as the ERV of the void space divided Net initial yield by the existing rent roll plus the ERV of the void space.
Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage of the investment property valuation having added notional Weighted average cost of capital WACC purchasers costs.
The weighted average pre-tax cost of the Groups debt and the notional cost of the Groups equity used as a benchmark to assess Non-PIDs investment returns.
Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable residual business.
Weighted average unexpired lease term WAULT The weighted average unexpired lease term expressed in years.
