GLOSSARY OF TERMS Adjusted figures per Reported amounts adjusted to exclude certain items as set out in note 10 to the share accounts.
EPRA NAV is sometimes described as adjusted NAV.
Anchor store A major store, usually a department, variety or DIY store or supermarket, occupying a large unit within a shopping centre or retail park, which serves as a draw to other retailers and consumers.
Average cost of The cost of finance expressed as a percentage of the weighted average of borrowing borrowings during the period.
Capital return The change in value during the period for properties held at the balance sheet date, after taking account of capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis.
DTR Disclosure and Transparency Rules, issued by the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Dividend cover Adjusted earnings per share divided by dividend per share.
Earnings per share EPS Profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period.
EPRA European Public Real Estate Association.
This organisation has issued recommended bases for the calculation of earnings per share and net asset value per share.
ERV The estimated market rental value of the total lettable space in a property, after deducting head and equity rents, calculated by the Groups valuers.
Gearing Net debt expressed as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
Gross property value Property value before deduction of purchasers costs, as provided by the Groups valuers.
Gross rental income Income from rents, car parks and commercial income.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard.
Initial yield Annual cash rents receivable, net of head and equity rents and the cost of vacancy, as a percentage of gross property value, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Rents receivable following the expiry of rent-free periods are not included.
Rent reviews are assumed to have been settled at the contractual review date at ERV.
Interest cover Net rental income divided by net cost of finance before capitalised interest, the change in fair value of derivatives and bond redemption costs.
Interest rate or currency An agreement with another party to exchange an interest or currency rate obligation swap or derivatives for a pre-determined period of time.
An organisation supplying independent market indices and portfolio benchmarks to the property industry.
Like-for-like underlying The percentage change in net rental income for completed investment properties net rental income owned throughout both current and prior periods, after taking account of exchange translation movements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 124 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Loan to value ratio Borrowings and foreign currency swaps expressed as a percentage of the total value of investment and development properties.
Net asset value per share Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of shares in issue at the balance NAV sheet date.
Net rental income Income from rents, car parks and commercial income, after deducting head and equity rents payable, and other property related costs.
Over-rented The amount by which ERV falls short of rents passing, together with the estimated rental value of vacant space.
Pre-let A lease signed with a tenant prior to completion of a development.
Property Income A dividend, generally subject to withholding tax, that a UK REIT is required to pay Distribution PID from its tax-exempted property rental business and which is taxable for UK-resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
REIT Real Estate Investment Trust.
A tax regime which in the UK exempts participants from corporation tax both on UK rental income and gains arising on UK investment property sales, subject to certain requirements.
Rents passing or The annual rental income receivable from an investment property, after any rent-free passing rents periods and after deducting head and equity rents.
This may be more or less than the ERV see over-rented and reversionary or under-rented.
Return on shareholders Capital growth and profit for the year expressed as a percentage of equity equity ROE shareholders funds at the beginning of the year, all excluding deferred tax and certain non-recurring items.
Reversionary or underThe amount by which the ERV exceeds the rents passing, together with the rented estimated rental value of vacant space.
SIIC Socits dInvestissements Immobiliers Ctes.
A French tax-exempt regime available to property companies listed in France.
Total development cost All capital expenditure on a development project, including capitalised interest.
Total return Net rental income and capital return expressed as a percentage of the opening book value of property adjusted for capital expenditure and exchange translation movements, calculated on a monthly time-weighted basis.
Total shareholder return Dividends and capital growth in the share price, expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
True equivalent yield The capitalisation rate applied to future cash flows to calculate the gross property value.
The cash flows reflect the timing of future rents resulting from lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews based on current ERVs and assuming rents are received quarterly in advance.
The property true equivalent yields are determined by the Groups external valuers.
Turnover rent Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 125 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Vacancy rate The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently available for letting, expressed as a percentage of the total ERV of the property or portfolio.
Yield on cost Rents passing expressed as a percentage of the total development cost of a property.
Disclaimer This document contains certain statements that are neither reported financial results nor other historical information.
These statements are forward-looking in nature and are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by these statements.
Many of these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond Hammersons ability to control or estimate precisely, such as future market conditions, currency fluctuations, the behaviour of other market participants, the actions of governmental regulators and other risk factors such as the Companys ability to continue to obtain financing to meet its liquidity needs, changes in the political, social and regulatory framework in which the Company operates or in economic or technological trends or conditions, including inflation and consumer confidence, on a global, regional or national basis.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document.
Hammerson does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Information contained in this document relating to the Company should not be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
