Business overview Chief Executives review These results reflect the ongoing implementation of our strategy, which is to focus on high growth markets and continued investment in talent, technology, processes and facilities.
Highlights The Group has identified six strategic objectives Development.
PV is focused on adapting and four key enablers as critical elements of concepts and technology into certified Order book increased to 2.7bn, giving the implementation of its ongoing strategy.
Investment in the year increased to excellent long term revenue visibility Cobhams operating performance continues 71m, which as a proportion of the Technology G rowth markets and technology focus to improve and this enables increased levels Divisions revenue, is 5.7%.
underpin 10% organic increase in Technology of investment to be made in technology to Divisions revenue: strong growth from provide customers with critical capabilities: Across Cobham, implementation of the Cobham Aviation Services developing existing and attracting new talent: organisational structures designed to support Cash conversion of 106% and free cash flow acquisition of complementary businesses: and the Groups strategy continued, with an of 203m again demonstrates the success of improving further business infrastructure.
emphasis on collaboration to better utilise our cash generative business model in a very resources and increase opportunities for competitive, global market A summary of the strategy, progress personal and professional development.
In implementing it and the associated key support of this, succession planning is now performance indicators, are detailed on carried out on a Group wide basis and over pages 8 to 11.
60 high potential candidates have been enrolled in the Companys senior development Overall business performance programme.
Strategic staffing initiatives Group revenue in the year, on an underlying across the Group were also supported, with and statutory basis, increased by 38% to the graduate resourcing programme, first 1,467m, driven by double digit organic growth, introduced across Cobham in the UK, now the impact of acquisitions and favourable extended to the USA.
With the support of a new Corporate The Groups focus is on specialist markets Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S that benefit from significant and sustained Director, the Groups corporate governance customer demand, leading to above average position has been reviewed.
A Group CR organic growth opportunities over the committee has been established, chaired by medium term.
Consequently, the proportion of the Chief Executive.
Further details can be revenue generated by the Group from the USA found on page 27. increased to 55% from 47% and remains a key market.
Cobham has expanded its activities Key orders in regions and countries which also have had The order book for the three Technology higher growth rates such as India, South Korea Divisions at 1.6bn and Cobham Aviation and the Middle East.
Key contracts include the following: By sector, Cobhams largest market is Defence.
Here, activities are concentrated in areas that A350 RAIMS Selection by Rockwell Collins are key defence and government priorities, and Airbus to provide the Radio and Audio including defence electronics, force protection Integrated Management System RAIMS for and national security.
the Airbus A350 aircraft, in an award worth up to US$200 million including aftermarket The Group has continued to extract operating support.
The system was designed with efficiencies from its businesses through internal PV funding.
the rationalisation of operating sites, with the intention that savings be used for the SATCOM Antennas Supply agreements with purpose of increasing investment in PV Private Gulfstream and Dassault were extended and Venture or company funded Research and established respectively for SATCOM antennas.
Cobham plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
