Business overview Markets we operate in Broad portfolio of products and services A number of submarkets within the US Commercial aircraft market will decline improves competitive position defence sector are expected to grow faster in the next two years Cobham has a portfolio of products that are than the market at large, including satellite Demand for commercial aircraft depends on used on a wide range of air, land and marine communications, unmanned systems and the appetite for air travel measured in air platforms, with additional opportunities intelligence assurance.
The acquisition of passenger kilometres or miles.
The primary available through capability upgrades.
This SPARTA in 2008 brought a significant capability driver of air traffic is global GDP growth.
broad platform basis reduces the financial to Cobhams intelligence assurance sector.
Following a period of unprecedented growth and operational risks to the Group of any with record levels of orders, the International single platform or programme and improves European defence budgets remain Air Transport Association IATA forecasts a 3% Cobhams competitive position in a under pressure global decline in air traffic in 2009 based on global market.
In the UK, the Secretary of State for Defence the current projections of a slower global GDP has signalled that, in an attempt to reduce growth.
Boeing and Airbus have stated that More than 60% of the Groups revenue arises current levels of expenditure, programmes they do not see a need to dramatically reduce from military, government and national have been delayed and cut back.
In France, the production rates in 2009, but have given no security customers worldwide.
Historically, defence budget is very stretched with a gap of guidance for 2010.
The majority of product these customers have been largely resilient to 6bn from 2009 to 2015.
In 2008 the President that Cobham supplies for commercial aircraft the economic cycle and provide the Group of France recommended a shift from large is fitted post production of the basic aircraft with a long term growth model with defensive platforms and programmes to a greater focus frame.
Therefore Cobham revenues generated characteristics.
This coupled with the long term on new defence technologies and capabilities.
in the commercial market sector are less nature of many of Cobhams programmes, Spain has reduced their defence budget and susceptible to decline in the near term based high barriers to entry and the resilience of Germany has a budget which is only 1% of on the existing backlog.
the customer base, affords excellent forward GDP.
In Italy where, as in France, the budget is revenue visibility.
stretched, the latest unconfirmed estimates suggest that the 2009 budget will be reduced Shifting US procurement priorities by up to 20%.
Less than 25% of Cobhams favour sustainment over next revenue is generated from these markets.
generation platforms The US defence budget is an important aspect Double digit RoW military market of the Cobham business model.
During 2008 the growth continues budget continued to grow which enabled the Geographically, the Group is developing its business to again achieve double digit organic activities in regions and countries which are growth.
The US Secretary of Defense, in his experiencing higher growth rates including January 2009 speech said that the Pentagon India, South Korea, Singapore, Brazil, UAE, has to do more than modernise its conventional Saudi Arabia and other Middle East states.
It must also focus on todays and compound growth in these areas from 2008 tomorrows unconventional conflicts.
Support to 2013 is projected to be 19%.
Cobhams focus for conventional modernisation programmes is is on India, South Korea and the Middle East.
deeply embedded in the Defense Departments Indias defence budget reached $20bn in 2008, budget.
Cobham is well placed to benefit from an increase of 10% over 2007, and the growth the updating of legacy platforms with a range rate over the next few years is expected to of modernised electronics and subsystems to remain at that figure.
maintain GWOT Global War On Terror mission capabilities.
Cobham plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
