Group financial statements Parent company accounting policies Accounting convention Intangible assets These financial statements have been prepared under the historical Intangible assets, comprising software, are stated at cost less accumulated cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain tangible amortisation and impairment losses.
They are amortised on a straight-line fixed assets and derivative contracts which are held at fair value, in basis over their estimated useful lives which range from three to five years.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards UK GAAP.
Tangible fixed assets Plant and machinery fixed assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives which are as set out below.
range from three to five years.
Dividends Investments in group and other undertakings Dividends payable are recognised as a liability in the period in which Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any they are fully authorised.
Dividend income is recognised when the provision for impairment in value and include the fair value at the date of shareholders right to receive payment has been established.
grant of share options awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings, net of amounts recovered as management charges.
Pensions The Company operates and contributes to a multi-employer defined Other investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment benefit pension scheme.
Contributions and pension costs are in value.
apportioned across the scheme as a whole and assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The scheme is closed to new Operating leases members and has a high proportion of deferred and pensioner members Operating lease payments for assets leased from third parties are from businesses that no longer participate in the scheme.
The Company charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the is therefore not able to identify its share of underlying assets and term of the lease.
liabilities of the scheme on a reasonable and consistent basis and in accordance with the multi-employer exemption contained in FRS 17, Provisions Retirement Benefits, the scheme has been accounted for as if it was a A provision is recognised when the Company has a present legal or defined contribution scheme.
The charge to the profit and loss account constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that therefore reflects payments for the year.
settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit Share capital and loss account in the period the contributions are payable.
Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual The Company also makes contributions for certain employees to agreements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that individual personal pension and stakeholder schemes.
Contributions are evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after charged to the profit and loss account in the year to which they relate.
deducting all of its liabilities.
Deferred taxation Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the profit and loss account the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the as interest expense.
Foreign currencies A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable when, on the basis The functional currency of the Company is sterling.
Transactions in of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that currencies other than the local currency are translated at the exchange there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities underlying timing differences can be deducted.
denoted in non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax has not been discounted.
Cobham plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group financial statements Parent company accounting policies continued In order to manage the Groups exposure to certain foreign exchange When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no risks, the Company enters into forward contracts and options which are longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or accounted for as derivative financial instruments.
loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the profit and Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting loss account.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is immediately contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair transferred to the profit and loss account for the period.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, Other financial instruments the nature of the item being hedged.
Amounts receivable from and owed to subsidiaries, repayable on demand, are recognised at their nominal value and receivables are The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair swap contracts to reduce these exposures.
The Company does not value.
Finance charges are accounted for on an accruals basis in the use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
profit and loss account using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they The Company documents at the inception of an interest rate swap are not settled in the period in which they arise.
transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for Share-based payments undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Company also documents For grants made to employees of Cobham plc under the Companys its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of share-based payment schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective options awarded as at the time of grant are charged to the profit and in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
loss account over the vesting period.
The fair value of options awarded to employees of subsidiary undertakings, net of amounts recovered Foreign exchange derivatives entered into to mitigate foreign exchange as management charges, is recognised as a capital contribution and impacts of trading in non-functional currencies are not accounted recorded in investments.
for using hedge accounting and movements in fair values are shown separately in the profit and loss account as part of operating profit.
The costs of awards made to employees of Cobham plc under cash Foreign exchange derivatives entered into to mitigate foreign exchange settled share-based payment schemes are measured initially at the grant impacts arising on the acquisition of fixed assets are accounted for as date and expensed over the vesting period.
The liability is remeasured cash flow hedges.
at each balance sheet date up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value recognised through the profit and loss account.
Fair value hedges Changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as The valuation of the options utilises a methodology based on the fair value hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account, together Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are of market related performance criteria.
attributable to the hedged risk.
The gains or losses relating to interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings are recognised in finance The Company has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of income and expense in the profit and loss account.
FRS 20, Share-based payment, in respect of equity settled awards and has applied FRS 20 only to equity settled awards granted after Cash flow hedges 7 November 2002.
The effective portion of changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the profit and loss account in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
108 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
