Business overview Chief Executives review continued Six major airlines have now adopted the testing started using the INMARSAT network.
The Sensor and Antenna Systems, Lansdale HGA-7001 antenna which has been designed The PV funded product is anticipated to launch integration has been completed ahead of plan.
A number of joint bids have been submitted in cooperation with other Cobham businesses LBT AG Full Rate Production of Low Band VIC-3 Production of the VIC-3 Digital Vehicle and the design and manufacture of some Transmitter Antenna Groups LBT AG was Intercom System to the US Army increased components and sub-assemblies has been secured by Cobhams business unit in Lansdale, to a record level of 18,000 units in May to transferred to the Lansdale facility.
All back USA which was acquired in February.
US$64m support the US Armys Mine Resistant Ambush office functions and information technology of orders have been secured since acquisition.
systems are now operating independently from the former owner, two months ahead National Cyber Range A strategically important Sentinel Entry into service in July of the tenth of schedule.
US$8.6m contract was secured by SPARTA all electronic aircraft in Australia.
Despite initial to lead the development of DARPAs National crewing difficulties caused by a nationwide Cooperation on joint proposals between Cyber Range as part of the US governments shortage of pilots in Australia, the operational M A-COM and other Cobham Defence efforts to increase the nations defences performance is now rated as excellent.
Systems businesses commenced quickly, against electronic attack.
with two opportunities being worked on in SDB Completion and delivery of Lot 3 the airborne electronics market.
Additionally, FSTA Receipt of a contract for 150m for the production of the Small Diameter Bomb plans are being developed to combine the UK Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA for weapons carriage release system for the cable, waveguide and antennas activities of wing pods, fuselage refuelling units and aircraft F-15E and commencement of Lot 4.
Over M A-COM with other Cobham business units.
conversion, with a 27 year support contract.
500 carriages have been delivered to date.
Summary Helicopter Operations The FB Heliservices Micro Climate Cooling Cobham was honoured Cobham has a broad portfolio of platforms, joint venture secured two contracts worth with a US Department of Defense DoD Value programmes and customers, with good 55m and 29m in June.
The first extended Engineering Achievement Award for micro revenue visibility.
The Group is pursuing many support of the UK governments operation climate cooling system design change which opportunities in home and new markets in Cyprus from 2010 to 2017.
The second was contributed to a US$3.8m saving for the DoD.
and remains focussed on the development for an overseas customers Search and Rescue of distinctive technology.
The ongoing training at RAF Valley in North Wales.
Cobham was assessed by the UK Ministry transformation of the Group to drive further of Defence as the top rated supplier in growth has delivered strong results.
The Groups major bids, customer and internally funded PV projects or programmes Acquisition integration are progressively operating under the Groups Acquisitions form an important element in Life Cycle Management LCM processes.
The Cobhams strategy and add value through major programmes include: exploiting technology related synergies Allan E Cook CBE between complementary products and Chief Executive Cobham Cockpit System integration by cross selling to the different customer 4 March 2009 completed of a comprehensive Cobham bases to create new growth and market Cockpit suite of avionics equipment opportunities.
During 2008 Cobham developed with PV funding for the TH-57 completed six acquisitions for a total of training helicopter retrofit programme.
The acquisitions completed early certification has been applied for.
in 2008 are performing ahead of expectations, except the small S-TEC acquisition, which BGAN A major development milestone was has been impacted by the downturn in achieved in the next generation of aircraft the general aviation market.
Progress on based satellite communication, Broadband integrating the businesses acquired during Global Area Network BGAN, with on air 2008 has been good.
6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
