Group financial statements Accounting policies General information the financial period.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity These financial statements are the consolidated financial statements method and include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and of Cobham plc, a public company limited by shares, registered and losses of joint ventures from the date that joint control or significant domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries the Group.
influence commences until the date this ceases.
The address of the registered office is Brook Road, Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ England.
Businesses acquired are accounted for as acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting, with effect from the date control passes.
Basis of preparation Acquisitions of minority interests are accounted for using the economic These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in entity method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as of the consideration given plus directly attributable acquisition costs.
adopted by the EU, International Financial Reporting Interpretation Businesses disposed of are accounted for up until control passes at the Council IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act point of their disposal.
The results of businesses disposed of, and of those 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
classified as held for sale at the year end are disclosed as arising from discontinued operations where they meet the criteria to be treated as such.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of Businesses acquired with the intention of sale in the short term are not certain borrowings and derivative contracts which are held at fair value.
consolidated and are held at their fair value less costs to sell.
The results of such businesses are not reflected in the Group results.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities eliminated on consolidation.
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these Underlying measures estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, In addition to the information required by IFRS and to assist with the event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
understanding of earnings trends, the Group has included within its published statements trading profit and underlying earnings results.
There have been no new standards or amendments to existing standards adopted during the current year.
The revision to IAS 23, Trading profit and underlying earnings have been defined to exclude the Borrowing Costs, was adopted early with effect from 1 January 2007 impacts of certain acquisition related costs, portfolio restructuring costs, and no adjustments to Group accounting policies were required on the marking to market of currency instruments not realised in the period adoption of this amendment.
The following interpretations to existing standards which are effective Acquisition related costs excluded from trading profit and underlying for the current year are not considered to have any significant impact earnings include the amortisation of intangible assets recognised on on the Groups financial statements: acquisition, the writing off of the pre-acquisition profit element of inventory written up on acquisition, costs charged post acquisition IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Share-based payment Group and Treasury related to acquired share options and direct costs associated with Share Transactions: exceptional terminated acquisitions.
IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements: IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Portfolio restructuring costs comprise exceptional profits or losses Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
arising on disposals actually completed, as well as exceptional costs or profits associated with the restructuring of the Groups business and The October 2008 amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: site integrations.
Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, both effective 1 July 2008 had no effect on the Groups Revenue recognition financial statements.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration and is recognised when legal title and the risks and rewards of ownership The principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, have been passed to the customer.
Revenue for services is recognised as are as set out below.
It excludes inter-company sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.
In the case of contracts with a long duration, Basis of consolidation revenue is recognised based upon the fair value of work performed to The Group financial statements include the financial statements of date assessed with reference to contract milestones.
the parent company and of all its subsidiaries made up to the end of Cobham plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group financial statements Accounting policies continued Pensions sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates and laws that have been For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and that are profit are the current service costs.
Gains and losses on settlements expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability and curtailments arising on a business disposal are included in profit is settled.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except on disposal.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which income statement if the benefits have vested.
If the benefits have not case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
vested, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The expected return on assets and interest cost are shown within Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable finance income and expense.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when immediately in the statement of recognised income and expense.
the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held Dividends separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities fully authorised.
are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high Share-based payments quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme For grants made under the Groups equity settled share-based payment liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are schemes, amounts which reflect the fair value of options awarded as at updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting defined benefit asset the time of grant are charged to the income statement over the relevant or liability is presented separately on the face of the balance sheet.
For defined contribution schemes the amounts charged to the income The costs of awards made under cash settled share-based payment statement in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement schemes are measured initially at the grant date and expensed over benefits are the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between the vesting period.
The liability is remeasured at each balance sheet contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are date up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value recorded as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
recognised through the income statement.
Taxation including deferred taxation The valuation methodology for all schemes is based on the The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Black-Scholes model, modified where required to allow for the impact of market related performance criteria.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income statement.
Taxable profit The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 excludes items of income and expense that are taxable or deductible in Share-based payment in respect of equity settled awards and has applied other years and also excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
IFRS 2 only to equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Where the terms of share-based payment schemes have been modified as a result of acquisition, the costs of awards have been allocated Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method between acquisition cost and post-combination expense based on in respect of temporary differences arising between the tax bases the proportion of the vesting period completed prior to the acquisition of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated and the respective fair values of the original and replacement awards financial statements.
Temporary differences arise primarily from the recognition of deficits Intangible assets on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, accelerated tax Goodwill depreciation and acquisition accounting.
Deferred tax liabilities are Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the recognised for taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be a business, subsidiary or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
acquired is allocated at acquisition to the cash-generating units CGUs The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
CGUs sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that are typically business units which are separately managed, for which 50 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Group financial statements financial results are individually reported and which generate cash flows All property, plant and equipment other than land is depreciated on a that are largely independent.
straight-line basis to the estimated residual values over the estimated useful lives.
These lives are as follows: Goodwill arising on overseas acquisitions since the date of transition to IFRS is treated as a foreign currency asset and revalued at the balance Freehold buildings including sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising are taken to the investment properties 50 years translation reserve and recycled to the income statement when the Leasehold properties The period of the lease related subsidiary is sold.
Plant and equipment and other fixed assets 3 to 15 years Goodwill arising on acquisitions of businesses, subsidiaries and joint Estimated residual values and the estimated useful lives are reviewed ventures is capitalised and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
annually and adjusted where necessary.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the On disposal of a subsidiary or joint venture, the attributable amount of term of the relevant lease.
goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is Research and development determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the Research expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Development costs not chargeable to customers are written off as incurred until it can be demonstrated that the conditions for Investment properties capitalisation as described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets, are met.
At Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rentals that point further costs are capitalised as an intangible asset until the and or for capital appreciation, are stated at cost at the balance sheet intangible asset is readily available for sale and is then amortised on a date.
They are depreciated on a straight-line basis to their estimated straight-line basis over the assets estimated useful life.
residual value over their estimated useful lives.
Other intangible assets Rental income is recognised as revenue on a straight-line basis.
Intangible assets other than goodwill which are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and Aircraft overhaul expenditure impairment losses.
These include customer relationships, technology Major overhaul expenditure on owned aircraft is capitalised when and software, trademarks, licences and patents.
The only internally incurred and the resultant fixed asset depreciated over its useful generated intangible assets are development costs which are economic life.
Major overhaul costs that are contractually required on capitalised as described above, and internally developed software aircraft held under operating leases are provided for over the period where asset recognition criteria are met.
between the scheduled maintenance events.
All other intangible assets are amortised over the assets estimated Inventories useful life on a straight-line basis as follows: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour Customer relationships 2 to 15 years costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the Technology and software 2 to 10 years inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated Development costs 2 to 10 years using the first-in, first-out method.
Net realisable value represents the Other intangible assets 6 months to 10 years estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Payments received Property, plant and equipment and receivable on account of work in progress are deducted from the Freehold land is not depreciated, but is reviewed for impairment at cost of work carried out at the balance sheet date to the extent of the least annually.
valuation of the work done.
Freehold and leasehold buildings, plant and equipment are held Pre-contract and bid costs at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised All costs directly attributable to securing contracts incurred after the impairment losses.
point that they become virtually certain, but before commencement of the contract, are recognised as an asset.
Such costs are amortised to the income statement over the period for which this activity will continue to provide value.
Cobham plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group financial statements Accounting policies continued Financial instruments future cash flows.
Any impairment required is recorded in the income Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups statement in administrative expenses.
The balance may be written off balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual in full generally where receivables are in excess of 12 months old.
At that provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are recognised at trade date.
time, any amounts previously provided for impairment are released.
Financial assets and liabilities Trade payables Financial assets are categorised on initial recognition as assets held at fair Trade payables do not carry any interest and are stated at their value through profit or loss, or loans and receivables dependent upon nominal value.
the purpose for which the assets were acquired and as follows: Bank borrowings Assets held at fair value through profit or loss are those held for trading Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amount in the short term and are classified as current assets: of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowing costs, net Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or of amounts capitalised, including premiums payable on settlement or determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market.
redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement These are classified as current or non-current assets dependent upon and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent maturity and included within trade and other receivables.
that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to relevant property, plant and None of the Groups financial assets fall into the held to maturity or equipment are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
available for sale categories which are defined as follows: Cash and cash equivalents Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits fixed maturity dates which the Group intends to hold to maturity: with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash assets either designated by management as available for sale or not management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents falling into any of the above categories.
for the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement.
Financial liabilities are categorised on initial recognition as liabilities Disposal groups held for sale held at fair value through profit or loss, or other liabilities held at cost.
Disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount Liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss are those held for trading and fair value less costs to sell when the sale is highly probable and in the short term and are classified as current or non-current liabilities expected to be completed within a year of the balance sheet date.
The dependent upon the maturity date of the instruments.
Derivatives are disposal group is also to be available for immediate sale and being actively categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value.
Businesses acquired with the intention to sell are held at fair value less When a financial asset or liability is recognised initially, it is measured at costs to sell.
its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly Leasing attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset or financial Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease liability.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are carried lessee.
Leases include hire purchase contracts which have characteristics at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial liabilities similar to operating or finance leases.
All other leases are classified as not at fair value through profit or loss are stated at amortised cost.
Trade and other receivables Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost reduced at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The Allowances for irrecoverable amounts are made when there is evidence corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as that the Group may not be able to collect the amount due.
All trade a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between receivables which are more than six months overdue are provided for finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve based on estimated irrecoverable amounts determined by reference a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Amounts which are less than six months Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
overdue are provided where recovery of the balance due is considered to be doubtful.
The impairment recorded is the difference between the Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income carrying value of the receivables and the present value of the estimated statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
52 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Group financial statements Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating Net investment hedges lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair in the income statement.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, Gains or losses accumulated in equity are included in the income the nature of the item being hedged.
statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The Groups activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes The fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses liability except when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swap contracts and than 12 months.
net investment hedges to reduce these exposures.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Foreign currencies The functional currency and presentation currency of the parent company The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the is sterling.
Most Group companies use their local currency as their relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well functional currency.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in non-functional hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the income in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
statement except when deferred in equity as net investment hedges.
Foreign exchange derivatives entered into to mitigate foreign exchange In order to manage its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks impacts of trading in non-functional currencies are not accounted for using the Group enters into forward contracts which are accounted for as hedge accounting and movements in fair values are shown separately derivative financial instruments.
in the income statement as part of operating profit.
Foreign exchange derivatives entered into to mitigate foreign exchange impacts arising on For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas the acquisition of fixed assets are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated at the closing exchange rates.
Income statements of such undertakings are Fair value hedges consolidated at the average rates of exchange as an approximation Changes in fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as for actual rates during the year.
Exchange differences arising on these fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with translations are accounted for in the translation reserve.
any changes in the fair values of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gains or losses relating to interest Provisions rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings are recognised in finance A provision is required when the Group has a present legal or income and expense in the income statement.
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that settlement will be required of an amount that can be reliably estimated.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are Provisions for warranty costs are recognised at the date of sale of the designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The relevant products, at the directors best estimate of the expenditure gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately required to settle the Groups liability.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to finance income and expense in the income statement in the periods Provisions for onerous contracts are recognised when the expected when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or Provisions for contingent consideration are recognised when it is loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised considered probable that the conditions attaching to potential when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income payment will be met.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement for the period.
Cobham plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group financial statements Accounting policies continued Provisions for major repair and maintenance costs on aircraft held under and activities.
Trading between Group companies is contracted and operating leases are provided over the period to the next inspection so priced at arms length commercial terms.
as to match the costs with benefits received.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Provisions for claims made against the Group and commitments made Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on under guarantees are recognised at the directors best estimates of the historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future expenditure required to settle the Groups liabilities.
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The current economic conditions have been considered when evaluating Provisions are discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate when the accounting estimates and judgements, including the application of the impact is material.
going concern basis of preparation.
Impairment losses Management judgement and estimation uncertainty The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at least In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
management has made a number of judgements, none of which If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
are considered to have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows Estimates and assumptions concerning the future are also made by the are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Group.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the equal the related actual results.
The key assumptions concerning the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance have not been adjusted.
sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount of an asset are as follows: is less than its recoverable amount.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an Intangible assets recognised on acquisition indication that the asset may be impaired.
Any impairment losses are On completion of a business combination, the cost is allocated by recognised in the income statement.
recognising the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired at fair value.
Intangible assets are recognised where they are An impairment loss other than arising on goodwill is reversed only separable or arise from contractual or legal rights, and have a fair value to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the that can be measured reliably.
For the Group these intangible assets carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation usually comprise contractual arrangements, customer relationships and or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Any reversal technology based assets, but can also include acquired patents, software is recognised in the income statement.
rights and licences and development costs.
Share capital In establishing fair value for these intangible assets recognised on Ordinary share capital is classified as equity.
Financial liabilities and equity acquisition and their estimated useful lives, the Group takes account instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual of the individual circumstances of the entity acquired.
This includes arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that trading data, such as value and duration of contracts acquired, strength, evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting duration and degree of exclusivity of relationships with customers, as all of its liabilities.
well as valuation estimates, such as the estimation of likely external royalty rates that could be associated with technology and branding Preference share capital is classified as a liability if it is redeemable on assets and attributable future cash flows.
a specific date or at the option of the preference shareholders or if dividend payments are not discretionary.
Dividends on preference share Impairment of goodwill capital classified as liabilities are recognised in the income statement as The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an finance expense.
This requires estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units CGUs to which the goodwill is allocated.
Segmental reporting Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate For reporting purposes the results of the Group are allocated between of the expected future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose operating divisions and other activities.
The divisions operate in specific a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those market areas and are as described in note 1.
The Group accounting cash flows.
Further details are given in note 14. policies as described above are applied consistently across all divisions 54 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Group financial statements Taxation Amendments to 19 standards were made as part of the IASBs annual The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant improvements project published in May 2008.
These amendments are judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for tax.
effective in 2009 and are unlikely to have a significant impact on the There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate Groups accounts.
tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based The following interpretations of existing accounting standards are also on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final effective from 1 January 2009 subject to EU endorsement but are not tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were expected to impact on the Groups accounting policies: initially recorded, such differences will impact the current tax provision, deferred tax provisions and income statement in the period in which IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programme: such determination is made.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for Construction of Real Estate: IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
Retirement benefits The Group financial statements include costs and liabilities in relation to New standards, amendments and interpretations which are applicable retirement benefit obligations.
A number of assumptions are made in from 1 January 2010 are as follows: assessing the costs and present value of the pension assets and liabilities which include the long term rate of increase of salary costs, discount Revisions to IFRS 3, Business Combinations and IAS 27, Consolidated rate, inflation, the expected return on plan assets and mortality rates.
and Separate Financial Statements issued in January 2008.
These The Group uses published indices and independent actuarial advice to include consequential amendments to IAS 28 and IAS 31.
Under IFRS select the values of critical assumptions, which are disclosed in note 10.
3 Revised all payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classified Accounting standards not yet effective as debt subsequently re-measured through the Income Statement.
Certain new standards and amendments to existing standards have Also, all acquisition related costs will be expensed.
The revisions also been published that are mandatory for future accounting periods, change the accounting for non-controlling minority interests and subject to EU endorsement.
Those which the Group has not adopted changes therein.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 Revised to business early and which are applicable from 1 January 2009 are as follows: combinations completed after 1 January 2010: Eligible Hedged Items An amendment to IAS 39 Financial IFRS 8, Operating Segments, is not expected to have a significant Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is unlikely to impact impact on the Groups classification of reporting segments or amounts on the Groups accounting policies: reported but will reduce some of the disclosure requirements of IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners: segmental reporting: IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers.
The January 2008 amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment is likely to accelerate the timing of charges to the income statement in respect of awards made to employees under the Groups share-based payment schemes: Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation were issued in January 2008 and are not anticipated to impact presentation of the financial statements as the Group has none of the specific financial instruments to which the amendments refer: IAS 1 revised, Presentation of Financial Statements, will impact on the presentation of the primary financial statements, including the introduction of a statement of comprehensive income.
In addition, if a restatement of comparative information is made, including on adoption of new accounting standards, a restated balance sheet at the beginning of the comparative period will be required in addition to the current requirement to present balance sheets at the end of the current and comparative periods: Amendments to IFRS1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements deal with accounting for investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates in separate financial statements.
These changes will not impact on the Groups accounting policies: Cobham plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
