Financial Statements 83 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 1.
Signi cant accounting policies Unallocated expenses are costs incurred centrally These financial statements have been prepared in a Basis of consolidation which are neither directly attributable nor reasonably allocatable to individual segments.
Unallocated assets accordance with International Financial Reporting The consolidated financial statements for the year are cash and cash equivalents.
Unallocated liabilities Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting ended 31 March 2008 incorporate the financial Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as statements of Land Securities Group PLC the Company include short-term borrowings and overdrafts, and adopted by the European Union EU and with those and all its subsidiary undertakings the Group.
certain non-current liabilities borrowings, net pension bene t obligations and deferred tax liabilities.
parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has statements have been prepared in Sterling rounded the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial d Investment properties to the nearest hundred thousand, which is the and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain Investment properties are those properties, either owned by the Group or where the Group is a lessee presentation currency of the Group, and under the bene ts from its activities.
The financial statements of under a finance lease, that are held either to earn rental historical cost convention as modi ed by the subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial revaluation of land and buildings, available for sale statements from the date that control commences and income or for capital appreciation or both.
In addition, investments, derivative financial instruments and until the date control ceases.
properties held under operating leases are accounted for as investment properties when the rest of the financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A Joint ventures are those entities over whose fide nition of an investment property is met.
In such summary of the more important Group accounting activities the Group has joint control, established by policies which have been applied consistently across contractual agreement.
Associates are those entities cases, the operating leases concerned are accounted the Group is set out in note 2 below.
over which the Group has signi cant in uence, but for as if they were finance leases.
Investment properties are measured initially at The accounting policies are consistent with those which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
cost, including related transaction costs.
After initial applied in the year ended 31 March 2007, as amended Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using to re ect the adoption of the new Standards, the equity method of accounting as permitted by recognition at cost, investment properties are carried Amendments to Standards and Interpretations which IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and following at their fair values based on market value determined by professional external valuers at each reporting date.
are mandatory for the year ended 31 March 2008.
In the procedures for this method set out in IAS 28 Properties are treated as acquired at the point when most cases, these new requirements are not relevant Investments in associates.
Associates are also for the Group.
This is the case for, IFRIC 7 Applying accounted for using the equity method.
The equity the Group assumes the signi cant risks and returns of the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 Financial method requires the Groups share of the joint ventures ownership and as disposed when these are transferred to the buyer.
Additions to investment properties consist Reporting in Hyperin ationary Economies, IFRIC 8 and associates post-tax pro t or loss for the period to be of costs of a capital nature and, in the case of Scope of IFRS 2, IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded presented separately in the income statement and the Derivatives, and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting Groups share of the joint ventures and associates net investment properties under development, capitalised and Impairment.
However, the effect of adopting IFRS 7 assets to be presented separately in the balance sheet.
Certain internal staff and associated costs directly attributable to the management of major Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains schemes during the construction phase are also complementary amendment to IAS1 Presentation and losses arising from intra-group transactions are capitalised.
of financial statements capital disclosures was to eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial introduce additional disclosures in respect of financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions The difference between the fair value of an investment property at the reporting date and its instruments.
Adoption of the standard has not had with joint ventures or associates are eliminated to the carrying amount prior to remeasurement is included in any impact on the classi cation and valuation of the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture or the income statement as a valuation gain or loss.
When Groups or Companys financial instruments.
Unrealised losses are eliminated there has been no effect on the Groups results, in the same way, but only to the extent that there is the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment adoption of IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share no evidence of impairment.
property, the property remains an investment property Transactions has resulted in a prior year adjustment, and is accounted for as such.
the effect of which has been to increase the net assets b Acquisitions and business combinations of the Company at 1 April 2006 by 6.9m.
Where properties are acquired through corporate When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property with a view to sell, the property is The following new Standards and Interpretations acquisitions and there are no signi cant assets or transferred to trading properties and held as a current have been issued but are not effective for the year liabilities other than property, the acquisition is treated asset.
The property is remeasured to fair value as at ended 31 March 2008, and have not been adopted as an asset acquisition.
In all other cases the acquisition early, IFRS 8 Operating Segments, IFRS 3 revised is accounted for as a business combination, in which the date of the transfer with any gain or loss being taken to the income statement.
The remeasured Business Combinations, IFRIC 12 Service Concession case, the assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or joint amount becomes the deemed cost at which the Arrangements and IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a venture are measured at their estimated fair value at property is then carried in trading properties.
fide ned bene t asset, minimum funding requirements the date of acquisition or, in the case of non-current and their interaction.
It is anticipated that the adoption assets and disposal groups acquired with a view to Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as an investment property, but which has of these new Standards and Interpretations in future resale, at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to not previously been classi ed as such, is classi ed as periods will not have a material impact on the sell see k below.
The cost of acquisition is measured investment property under development within measurement of assets and liabilities included in at the fair value of the consideration given together the financial statements or the Groups income with any liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of property, plant and equipment.
This is recognised and expenses.
acquisition, plus costs directly attributable to the initially at cost but is subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
Any gain or loss on The preparation of financial statements in acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over remeasurement is taken direct to equity unless any loss conformity with generally accepted accounting the fair value of the Groups share of the identi able principles requires the use of estimates and net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
in the period exceeds any net cumulative gain assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets previously recognised in equity.
In the latter case, the amount by which the loss in the period exceeds the net and liabilities at the date of the financial statements c Segment reporting cumulative gain previously recognised is taken to the and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses A business segment is a group of assets and operations during the reporting period.
Although these estimates engaged in providing products or services that are income statement.
On completion, the property is are based on managements best knowledge of the subject to risks and returns that are different from transferred to investment property with any final difference on remeasurement accounted for in amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately those of other business segments.
The Group is accordance with the foregoing policy.
may differ from those estimates.
