130 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share EPS Initial yield Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Earnings per share based on revenue pro t plus pro ts on trading Annualised net rents on investment properties expressed as a A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least three quarters properties and long-term development contracts all after tax.
percentage of the acquisition cost.
of its pro ts and assets derived from a qualifying property rental business.
Income and capital gains from the property rental business Interest rate swap Adjusted net asset value NAV per share are exempt from tax but the REIT is required to distribute at least A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange an interest NAV per share adjusted to add back deferred tax associated with 90% of those pro ts to shareholders.
Corporation tax is payable on rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are used by investment properties and capitalised interest, the adjustment arising non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
the Group to convert oating rate debt to xed rates.
from the derecognition of the bond exchange, together with cumulative mark-to-market adjustment arising on interest swaps and similar Investment portfolio Rental value growth instruments used for hedging purposes.
After REIT conversion, the The investment portfolio comprises the Groups wholly-owned investment Increase in the current rental value, as determined by the Companys adding back of deferred tax is no longer relevant.
properties together with the properties held for development but excludes valuers, over the 12 month period on a like-for-like basis.
Retail Portfolio Average unexpired lease term Excludes short-term lettings such as car parks and advertising hoardings, Joint venture This business includes our shopping centres, shops, retail warehouse An entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and properties and assets held in retail joint ventures but not Central residential leases and long ground leases.
is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more venturers under a London retail.
Balanced scorecard contractual arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating An approach to strategic management developed in the early 1990s Retail park policies essential to the operation, performance and financial position of by Drs.
Robert Kaplan and David Norton to translate an organisations the venture require each venturers consent.
A scheme of three or more retail warehouse units aggregating over 2 vision into a set of performance indicators distributed among four 4,650m with shared parking.
perspectives: Financial, Customer, Internal Business Processes, and Land ex Return on average capital employed Learning and Growth.
Land ex ts between a conventional of ce and a serviced of ce solution Group pro t before interest, plus joint venture pro t before tax, by offering exibility on leases, certainty on costs and a broader range Book value divided by the average capital employed.
The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the financial statements.
Lease incentives Return on average equity Group pro t before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the average Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the Breeam incentive will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash contribution to tequity shareholders funds.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, out or similar costs.
For accounting purposes, under IFRS, the value of Revenue pro t worlds most widely used environmental assessment method for the rent-free period is spread over the non-cancellable life of the lease.
Pro t before tax, excluding pro ts on the sale of non-current asset buildings which assesses environmental impact against a set of LIBOR and trading properties, pro ts on long-term development contracts, objective criteria.
revaluation surpluses, mark-to-market adjustments on interest rate The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged by one CABE bank to another for lending money.
swaps and similar instruments used for hedging purposes, the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment CABE.
adjustment to interest payable resulting from the amortisation of the Like-for-like portfolio bond exchange derecognition, debt and other restructuring charges Combined portfolio Properties that have been in the investment or combined portfolio for and any exceptional items.
The combined portfolio is our wholly-owned investment property the whole of the current and previous financial year.
portfolio combined with our share of the value of properties held Reversionary or under-rented in joint ventures, but excludes any investment properties owned by London Portfolio Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
Unless stated these are the pro forma numbers we use when This business includes all London of ces and Central London retail, Reversionary yield discussing the investment property business.
but excludes those assets held in the Metro Shopping Fund LP.
The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise once the rent Development pipeline Mark-to-market adjustment reaches the ERV.
An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or The Groups development programme together with any proposed Total business return schemes that are not yet included in the development programme liability to its market value.
Dividend per share, plus the increase in adjusted diluted net asset value but which are more likely to proceed than not.
Net asset value NAV per share per share, divided by the adjusted diluted net asset value per share at Development programme Total equity divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the the beginning of the period.
The Groups development programme comprises projects which are period end.
Total development cost TDC completed but less than 95% let: developments on site: committed Open A1 planning consent All capital expenditure on a project including the opening book value developments being projects which are approved and the building Planning permission for the retail sale of any goods.
of the property on commencement of development, together with all contract let : and authorised developments those projects approved finance costs less residential proceeds.
by the Board for which the building contract has not yet been let.
Open market value For reporting purposes we retain properties in the programme until Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale Total property return they are 95% let.
of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash Valuation surplus, pro t loss on property sales and net rental income in Development surplus consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups respect of investment properties expressed as a percentage of opening external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external book value, together with the time weighted value for capital expenditure Excess of latest valuation over the total development cost TDC.
valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective incurred during the current period, on the investment property portfolio.
Diluted gures purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Total shareholder return Reported amount adjusted to include the effects of potential shares Operating properties The growth in value of a shareholding over a speci ed period, assuming issuable under employee share schemes.
Properties acquired and managed by Trillium as part of its property that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of the stock.
Earnings per share EPS outsourcing contracts with third parties and which do not meet the Trading properties Pro t after taxation attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the accounting fide nition of an investment property.
Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current assets weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Other investment portfolio in the balance sheet.
EPRA This comprises all other investment properties not included in the Retail Turnover rent European Public Real Estate Association.
Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Outline planning consent Equivalent yield Underlying operating pro t The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the This gives consent in principle for a development, and covers matters Operating pro t before pro t on disposal of non-current properties, such as use and building mass.
Full details of the development scheme gross outlays for the purchase of a property including purchase costs, revaluation of investment properties, and exceptional items stated re ecting reversions to current market rent, and such items as voids must be provided in an application for full planning consent, including within operating pro t. detailed design, external appearance and landscaping before a project and expenditures but disregarding potential changes in market rents and re ecting the actual cash ow rents.
An outline planning permission will lapse if full planning Unitary charge permission is not granted within three years.
The basic payment received by Trillium under a property Estimated rental value ERV outsourcing contract.
Over-rented The estimated market rental value of lettable space as determined biannually by the Groups valuers.
This will normally be different Space that is let at a rent above its ERV.
Voids to the rent being paid.
The area in a property or portfolio, excluding developments, Passing rent The annual rental income receivable which may be more or less than which is currently available for letting.
Exceptional item An item of income or expense that is deemed to be suf ciently material, the ERV see over-rented and reversionary.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC either by its size or nature, to require separate disclosure.
Weighted average of cost of debt and notional cost of equity, Property Income Distribution PID used as a benchmark to assess investment returns.
Finance lease A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of qualifying pro ts.
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Yield shift from the lessor to the lessee.
of its qualifying pro ts as a PID to its shareholders.
A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
Flexible accommodation allowance Pre-let A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
Allowance agreed between a property outsourcing client and Trillium, Zone A to vacate a given amount of oorspace or to expand over the life of the Public Private Partnership PPP A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by contract.
dividing it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most valuable A partnership that brings together, for mutual bene t, a public body and a private company in a long-term joint venture for the purpose of zone, Zone A, is at the front of the unit.
Each successive zone is valued Gearing net at half the rate of the zone in front of it.
Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term deposits, delivering public projects or services.
corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus non-equity shareholders Private Finance Initiative PFI funds as a percentage of equity shareholders funds.
A particular form of PPP, that is a government or public authority Gross income yield initiative to acquire private nancing for public sector infrastructure.
The annual net rent on investment properties expressed as a percentage Qualifying activities Qualifying assets of the valuation ignoring costs of purchase or sale.
The ownership activity of property assets which is held to earn rental income and quali es for tax-exempt treatment income and Head lease A lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
capital gains under UK REIT legislation.
