Financial Statements 79 Independent auditors report to the members of Land Securities Group PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company We review whether the Corporate governance Opinion financial statements the financial statements statement re ects the Companys compliance In our opinion: of Land Securities Group PLC for the year ended with the nine provisions of the Combined Code the Group financial statements give a true and 31 March 2008 which comprise the Group 2006 speci ed for our review by the Listing fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Income Statement, the Group and Parent Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and the European Union, of the state of the Groups Company balance sheets, the Group and Parent we report if it does not.
We are not required affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its loss and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group to consider whether the Boards statements cash ows for the year then ended: Statement of Recognised Income and Expense on internal control cover all risks and controls, the Parent Company financial statements give and the related notes.
These financial statements or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs have been prepared under the accounting policies groups corporate governance procedures or its as adopted by the European Union as applied set out therein.
We have also audited the risk and control procedures.
in accordance with the provisions of the information in the Directors remuneration report We read other information contained in the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent that is described as having been audited.
Annual Report and consider whether it is Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of consistent with the audited financial statements.
its cash ows for the year then ended: Respective responsibilities of Directors The other information comprises only the Report the financial statements and the part of the and auditors of the Directors and the items listed under the Directors remuneration report to be audited The Directors responsibilities for preparing the heading Investor Information on page 129. have been properly prepared in accordance with Annual Report, the Directors remuneration We consider the implications for our report if we the Companies Act 1985 and as regards the report and the financial statements in accordance become aware of any apparent misstatements Group financial statements, Article 4 of the with applicable law and International Financial or material inconsistencies with the financial IAS Regulation: and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend the information given in the Report of the European Union are set out in the Directors to any other information.
Directors is consistent with the financial statements of responsibilities on page 78. statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial Basis of audit opinion statements and the part of the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with  LLP remuneration report to be audited in accordance International Standards on Auditing UK and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
London and International Standards on Auditing UK and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of 13 May 2008 Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures been prepared for and only for the Companys in the financial statements and the part of the members as a body in accordance with Section Directors remuneration report to be audited.
235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other It also includes an assessment of the signi cant purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept estimates and judgements made by the Directors or assume responsibility for any other purpose or in the preparation of the financial statements, to any person to whom this report is shown or and of whether the accounting policies are into whose hands it may come, other than the appropriate to the Groups and Companys Company and the Companys members as a body, circumstances, consistently applied and save where expressly agreed by our prior consent adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to We report to you our opinion as to whether obtain all the information and explanations which the financial statements give a true and fair view we considered necessary in order to provide us and whether the financial statements and the with suf cient evidence to give reasonable part of the Directors remuneration report to assurance that the financial statements and the be audited have been properly prepared in part of the Directors remuneration report to be accordance with the Companies Act 1985, audited are free from material misstatement, and as regards the Group financial statements, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated to you whether, in our opinion, the information the overall adequacy of the presentation of given in the Report of the Directors is consistent information in the financial statements and with the financial statements.
the part of the Directors remuneration report The information given in the Directors Report to be audited.
comprises the items listed under the heading Report of the Directors on pages 4 to 76.
In addition we also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
