Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 77 Independent auditors report to the members of Aegis Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Aegis Group plc Basis of audit opinion the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 17.
These parent company financial Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Aegis Group disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the parent Opinion company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting In our opinion: Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial the information given in the directors report is consistent with the parent statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies company financial statements.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the operating Deloitte LLP reviews and financial review that is cross-referenced from the review of business Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and future developments sections of the directors report.
London In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper 18 March 2009 accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
