Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 87 Glossary of terms The Group Constant currency results Aegis Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Constant currency results are calculated by restating prior year local currency amounts using current year exchange rates.
Aegis Media The media services division of Aegis Group plc.
Underlying results Underlying operating profit, underlying profit before interest and tax, underlying Synovate profit before tax, and underlying profit after tax are operating profit, profit before The market research division of Aegis Group plc.
interest and tax, profit before tax, and profit after tax respectively, stated before Billings those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately The annualised value of media purchased and or managed on behalf of clients, disclosed to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance achieved by before agency discounts.
the Group and its businesses adjusting items.
Such adjusting items are material by nature or amount in the opinion of the directors and may include impairment Turnover charges and other exceptional items which are material by nature or amount in the Represents amounts invoiced for media handled by the Group on behalf of clients, opinion of the directors, including profits and losses on disposals of investments, together with fees invoiced for media and research services provided.
amortisation of purchased intangible assets, unrealised gains and losses on nonRevenue hedge derivative financial instruments, fair value gains and losses on liabilities in The value of media and research fees and commission earned by the Group.
respect of put option agreements, and any related tax thereon, as appropriate.
Adjusting items may also include specific tax items such as the benefit arising on Gross profit the reduction of certain tax liabilities in a particular half-year period and deferred Media and research income after deduction of all direct costs.
tax liabilities for tax deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where a deferred tax Net revenue liability is recognised even if such a liability would only unwind on the eventual Research income after deduction of all direct costs which is equivalent to gross sale or impairment of the business in question.
This item is used in respect of Synovate only.
Adjusting items are classified as operating, non-operating and financing according Gross margin to the nature of the underlying income or expense.
Gross profit stated as a percentage of turnover.
Goodwill Operating profit The difference between the fair value of purchase consideration of a business Gross profit less operating expenses.
as a whole and the aggregate fair value of its separable net assets.
Operating margin Minority interests Operating profit stated as a percentage of revenue.
Partial ownership of subsidiary undertakings by external shareholders.
Net new business Emerging markets The annualised value of media billings gained less the annualised value of media Emerging markets comprise Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, billings lost.
Asia-Pacific with the exception of Australia, New Zealand and Japan and the Middle East and Africa.
Reported growth Reported growth represents the year on year growth including the effect of new businesses acquired or disposed of during the year and movements in exchange rates.
Organic growth Organic growth represents year on year growth after adjusting for the effect of businesses acquired or disposed of since the beginning of the prior year.
88 Your notes Design and production: Radley Yeldar London | ry.
com Print: Park Communications This document is printed on Take 2 Offset, a fully recycled paper containing 100% post-consumer waste.
The pulp is Process Chlorine Free PCF, FSC certified and NAPM approved.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
Aegis Group plc 180 Great Portland Street London W1W 5QZ www.
