Parent Company financial statements CG40001 RA p115-128 9 12 08 15:17 Page 115 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company financial statements Directors responsibilities The directors are required by law to prepare separate The annual report and accounts complies with the Disclosure financial statements for the Company in accordance and Transparency Rules DTR of the United Kingdoms Financial with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have Services Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an chosen to prepare these financial statements for annual financial report.
the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The annual report and accounts is the responsibility of, and has been approved by, the directors.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as the accounts of the Company have been prepared in accordance at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and of the Company for that period.
In preparing those the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, financial statements, the directors are required to: liabilities and financial position of the Company.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: On behalf of the Board make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Mark J White and General Counsel and Company Secretary prepare the financial statements on the going 26 November 2008 concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2008 115
