Consolidated financial statements CG40001 RA p55-65 9 12 08 14:50 Page 55 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated financial statements Directors responsibilities The directors are required to prepare financial statements The annual report and accounts complies with the Disclosure for the Group in accordance with International Financial and Transparency Rules DTR of the United Kingdoms Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company law requires Services Authority in respect of the requirement to produce an the directors to prepare such financial statements in annual financial report.
accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The annual report and accounts is the responsibility of, and has been approved by, the directors.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: year the Groups financial position, financial performance the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions IFRS : in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, for assets, liabilities, income and expense set out in the liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and International Accounting Standards Boards Framework the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial and Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair the annual report and accounts includes a review of the presentation will be achieved by compliance with all development and performance of the business and the position of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Directors are also required to: and uncertainties that they face.
properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, On behalf of the Board in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Mark J White entitys financial position and financial performance: and General Counsel and Company Secretary prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, 26 November 2008 having assessed the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors, having prepared the financial statements, have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Compass Group PLC website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2008 55
