Statement of Consolidated Accounting Policies The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC interpretations adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified for the fair value of share based payments and financial derivatives.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The primary statements within the financial statements contained in this document have been presented in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 August each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
The Group balance sheet incorporates the shares held by the Connaught Employee Share Trust and which have not vested by the balance sheet date.
These are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity until such a time as they vest unconditionally with the employees.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Recent accounting developments Standards, amendments and interpretations effective for 2007 08 with no significant impact on the Groups results are set out below.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, however, their implementation has not had a significant impact on the results or net assets of the Group: Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective, but not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups results: IFRS 8: Operating Segments was issued in November 2006.
The new standard requires segment information to be prepared on the same basis as information reported to management for decision-making purposes.
In addition, the operating profit reported will be calculated on the basis used for management reporting and some detailed disclosures will change.
Connaught will determine an appropriate implementation date for the following standards, amendments and interpretations after they have been adopted by the European Union: Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Financial Statements 55 c99397 BOOK.
indb 55 5 11 08 11:24:41 Statement of Consolidated Accounting Policies continued An amendment to IAS 23: Borrowing costs was issued in March 2007.
The impact of the new policy on future reported performance is expected to be limited.
IFRIC 12: Service concession arrangements was issued in December 2006 and IFRIC 13: Customer Loyalty Programmes was issued in June 2007.
Neither interpretation is expected to have a material impact on the Group because it does not have any material contracts or programmes within the scope of these interpretations.
IFRIC 14: The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction was issued on 6 July 2007.
This interpretation provides guidance on the extent to which a pension scheme surplus should be recognised as an asset.
IFRIC 15: Agreements for the construction of real estate was issued on 3 July 2008.
The Group is not involved in the construction or sale of residential real estate.
However a review of contract accounting is being undertaken to establish whether or not the same principles apply to any transactions undertaken by the Group.
The impact of adopting this interpretation will be determined once this review has been completed.
IFRIC 16: Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation was issued on 3 July 2007.
An initial review of the Groups net investment hedging indicated that this interpretation is not likely to affect the accounting treatment.
IFRS 3: Revised business combinations and IAS 27: Revised consolidated and separate financial statements were issued in January 2008.
Implementing IFRS 3 Revised will significantly change the recognition of goodwill, acquisition costs and contingent consideration relating to acquisitions.
However it only applies to acquisitions made after it has been adopted.
IAS 27 Revised requires different accounting treatment for minority interest but it is not expected to affect the Groups financial results or position materially.
An amendment to IFRS 2: Share based payment was issued in January 2008.
This provides a definition of vesting conditions and specifies the accounting treatment for non-vesting conditions.
It is not expected to materially affect the share based payment charge recognised in the Group accounts because only a small proportion of awards under employee share schemes are affected by failures to comply with non-vesting conditions.
IAS 1: Revised Presentation of financial statements was issued in January 2008.
This changes the presentation requirements for other comprehensive income and transactions with shareholders, and requires increased disclosures when there is a restatement of comparatives.
Adopting this standard will not affect the recognition, measurement or disclosure of any transactions or events.
In February 2008 amendments to IAS 32: Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1: Revised Presentation of financial statements were issued clarifying the treatment of puttable financial instruments.
The adoption of these amendments is not expected to have any impact on the Group.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair value, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and the equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset.
Goodwill is not amortised and is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
56 Financial Statements Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 56 5 11 08 11:24:41 Statement of Consolidated Accounting Policies continued On disposal of a subsidiary or jointly-controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been carried forward as the net book value at the date of transition adjusted where appropriate for impairment.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Details of the Groups accounting policies for long-term social housing contracts and maintenance contracts are set out below.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Long-term social housing contracts The Group has a number of long-term contracts in the social housing sector.
Where the outcome of such long-term contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue.
This is measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that their recoverability is probable.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs that it is probable will be recovered.
Contract costs are matched with the contract revenue to which they relate.
To the extent that costs are not recoverable they are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Maintenance contracts The Group has a number of contracts for planned maintenance and reactive maintenance in the Compliance segment.
Planned maintenance revenue is recognised when the work is carried out.
Reactive maintenance revenue is recognised over the period of the contract term.
Segmental information Segmental information is based on the Groups management structure, which is based on business segments.
Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate expenses.
Specific corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, other debtors and prepayments, inventories and trade and other receivables excluding corporation tax recoverable.
Liabilities comprise trade and other payables.
Inter-segment trading is not significant.
Research and development expenditure Where the Group undertakes development activities, and where those activities are in respect of a specific product that is anticipated to be profitable within identified markets, the costs attributable to that development are deferred and amortised over the expected life of the product.
These costs deferred in respect of existing products are being amortised on a straight line basis over five years being the period over which the Group is expected to benefit.
Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Financial Statements 57 c99397 BOOK.
indb 57 5 11 08 11:24:42 Statement of Consolidated Accounting Policies continued Leases Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
The asset is recorded at its fair value in the balance sheet as a tangible fixed asset and is depreciated over its estimated useful life or the term of the lease, whichever is shorter.
Future instalments under such leases, net of finance charges, are included within creditors.
Rentals payable are apportioned between the finance element, which is charged to the profit and loss account, and the capital element, which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments.
All other leases are accounted for as operating leases and the rental charges are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Share-based payment The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments at 7 November 2002 that were not fully vested as of 1 September 2005.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and until 1 September 2006 operated an Inland Revenue approved Save As You Earn share option scheme open to eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes model as set out on page 45.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transactions and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
All borrowing costs are recognised as an expense using the effective interest method.
Pension costs The Group contributes into defined contribution and Group personal pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The amounts charged against profits represent the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
The Group also contributes to a number of immaterial defined benefit schemes established under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations TUPE.
Government grants Capital based government grants are included within other payables in the balance sheet and credited to the profit and loss account over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets to which they relate in accordance with IAS 20 Accounting for government grants and disclosure of government assistance.
Tax including deferred tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
58 Financial Statements Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 58 5 11 08 11:24:42 Statement of Consolidated Accounting Policies continued Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
The Groups liability for deferred tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which these items can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is considered no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Property, plant and equipment Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
In respect of other assets depreciation is provided by the Group to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Buildings 2% straight line per annum Leasehold improvements Charged over life of lease Motor vehicles 25% straight line per annum Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 20% straight line per annum Plant and machinery 20% straight line per annum Computer hardware 25% straight line per annum Asset lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, finite life intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic lives, which vary between 3 and 5 years, with the expense taken to the income statement through operating expenses.
Customer relationships represent the value of contracts acquired on the acquisition of subsidiaries and are amortised over the average length of the contracts which is currently 3.25 years.
Computer software purchased is amortised over its useful life or 4 years.
Development expenditure, relating to software, is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Development expenditure is amortised over the period in which the Group is expected to benefit.
This period is between three to five years, or the length of the contract if longer.
Provision is also made for any impairment, following an annual review of the above factors.
All other development expenditure is written off as incurred.
Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Financial Statements 59 c99397 BOOK.
indb 59 5 11 08 11:24:42 Statement of Consolidated Accounting Policies continued Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amounts may not be recoverable, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Impairment losses on goodwill once impaired are not reversed.
Impairment losses and reversals are included with other expenses within the consolidated income statement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares and long-term project based contract balances.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Long-term contract work in progress Contract work in progress is stated as costs incurred, less those transferred to the income statement, after deducting foreseeable losses and payments on account not matched with turnover.
Amounts recoverable on contracts and pre-contract costs Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in trade and other receivables and represent turnover recognised in excess of payments on account.
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred, except where there is a reasonable certainty that the contract will be awarded, in which case they are recognised as an asset within amounts recoverable on contracts which is amortised to the income statement over the period in which they are reimbursed, generally equivalent to the term of the contract.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with bank and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash which are subject to insignificant changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less.
This definition is also used for the consolidated cash flow statement.
Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense, which are material and non-recurring by virtue of their nature and amount, should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial performance of the Group.
60 Financial Statements Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 c99397 BOOK.
indb 60 5 11 08 11:24:42 Statement of Consolidated Accounting Policies continued Financial instruments The Group adopted IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement prospectively from 1 September 2005.
The Group has classified its financial instruments in the following categories from 1 September 2005: i Loans and receivables All loans and receivables are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received.
Following initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
ii Derivative financial instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates hedges of particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cashflow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group policy is to maintain approximately 70% of its core long-term borrowings in fixed rate instruments.
The Group enters into fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value interest rate risk arising where it has borrowed at fixed rates in excess of the 70% target.
The Group recognises gains or losses on derivatives at fair value through the income statement.
iii Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their fair value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
iv Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their fair value.
The Groups policy in respect of financial risk management is included in the Financial Review on page 18.
Share capital and treasury shares Debt and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements as required by IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentations.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Fair values The fair values of short term deposits, loans and overdrafts with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to be approximate to their book values.
Dividends Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when they are paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Connaught plc Annual Report 2008 Financial Statements 61 c99397 BOOK.
