Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial financial statements for the Group in accordance with International position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs and reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and in accordance with IFRSs.
Company law requires the Directors to directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRSs, the of the Companies Act 1985.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful legislation in other jurisdictions.
representation of the effects of transactions, other events and Directors responsibility statement conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria We confirm to the best of our knowledge: for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and properly select and apply accounting policies: 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Report, includes a fair review of the development and that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable performance of the business and the position of the Company information: and and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific whole, together with a description of the principal risks and requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to uncertainties they face.
understand the impact of particular transactions, other events By order of the Board and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
ID Coull DJR Sleath Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 4 March 2009 4 March 2009 SEGRO.
