Glossary of Terms Basis points Passing rent A unit that is equal to 1 100th of 1%.
The annual rental income currently receivable on a property as at the balance sheet date which may be more or less than the ERV Combined portfolio see over-rented and reversionary.
The investment, development and trading properties of the Group, including the relevant share of joint ventures properties.
Pre-let A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of a development.
Development pipeline The Groups current programme of developments authorised or in REIT the course of construction at the balance sheet date, together with A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real Estate potential schemes not yet commenced on land owned or controlled Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such entities must be by the Group or its joint ventures.
listed on a recognised stock exchange, must be predominantly engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain Equivalent yield ongoing qualifications.
SEGRO plc and its UK subsidiaries elected for The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on REIT status with effect from 1 January 2007. the value of the property assuming the current passing rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property becomes fully occupied over Rent roll time.
Assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
See also True See passing rent.
Reversionary yield Estimated rental value ERV The ERV of a property, expressed as a percentage of the propertys The estimated annual market rental value of lettable space as valuation.
In the case of portfolio data, the reversionary yield determined biannually by the Companys valuers.
This will normally assumes all properties are fully occupied.
be different from the rent being paid.
Square metres sq m Estimate to complete ETC The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
The Costs still to be expended on a development or redevelopment to conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 square metre practical completion not to complete lettings, including attributable 10.639 square feet.
Topped up initial yield Gross rental income Annualised current passing rent plus the value of annualised rent Contracted rental income recognised in the period, including free periods expressed as a percentage of the property valuation.
surrender premiums, interest receivable on finance leases and service Topped up initial yield excluding vacant properties charge income.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted Topped up initial yield calculated for occupied properties only.
future rental increases are amortised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Total Property Return TPR The change in capital value less any capital expenditure incurred Hectares Ha plus net income and plus or minus any gains or losses on disposals The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
The conversion expressed as a percentage of capital employed.
factor used, where appropriate, is 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
True equivalent yield Initial yield The equivalent yield assuming rent is received quarterly in arrears.
Annualised current passing rent expressed as a percentage of the property valuation.
TSR Total shareholder return based upon share price movement over the Joint venture period and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on financial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance and financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
Net rental income Gross rental income less ground rents paid, service charge expenses and property operating expenses.
For full Glossary of Terms go to http: www.
Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc SEGRO plc Registered office: 234 Bath Road Slough Berkshire SL1 4EE England Registered in England and Wales No.
167591 Tel: 44 0 1753 537171 Fax: 44 0 1753 820585 The material used for this report is ECF Elemental Chlorine Free Pulp virgin pulp sourced from FSC certified and well-managed forests.
It is 100% recyclable and biodegradable.
This has been printed using an alcohol free process and the printing inks are made from vegetable oil and are non-hazardous from renewable sources.
Over 90% of solvents and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place for all other waste associated with this production.
The printers are FSC and ISO 14001 certified with strict procedures in place to safeguard the environment through all their processes and are working on initiatives to reduce their Carbon Footprint.
TT-COC-002142 Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk Printed by CTD SEGRO plc Annual Report 2008 Annual Report2008 shareholder value shareholder value SEGROs vision is to deliver outstanding property solutions for our customers: superior returns for our shareholders and sustainable business practices for the future.
WHERE BUSINESS WORKS location environment CREATING ENVIRONMENTS WHERE COMPANIES, PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES CAN THRIVE customer care location WHERE BUSINESS WORKS environment SEGRO.
