We have read the majority of the leases and related documents provided to us in respect of the commercial Directors properties.
Where we have not read leases, we have relied on tenancy information provided by the Company.
responsibilities Certain properties were subject to works of repair or refurbishment at 30th September 2008, or were subject to outstanding retentions and fees in respect The Directors are responsible for of projects already completed at that date.
In these instances, the Company advised us of the amount of preparing the Annual Report, the the outstanding costs.
The costs will be borne by the Directors Remuneration Report and Company as they are not recoverable from the tenants.
the financial statements in accordance We have reflected these costs in our valuations.
The with applicable law and regulations.
total amount of such costs is 4,541,000 and details of the individual sums are included in our Reports.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare As referred to above, we have lotted together certain financial statements for each financial year.
Under individual properties to form a number of separate that law the Directors have prepared the group and Properties.
In the case of three Properties which parent company financial statements in accordance comprise a number of individual properties, the with International Financial Reporting Standards majority of such properties are held freehold but IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The certain of them are held on long leases.
In order to financial statements are required by law to give a divide our valuation of these Properties between the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the categories of freehold and long leasehold, we have Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of undertaken notional apportionments of value between the Group for that period.
the freehold elements and the long leasehold In preparing those financial statements, the elements which together comprise the relevant Directors are required to: Properties.
The amounts arising from these notional apportionments of value have been included in the - select suitable accounting policies and then apply figures representing the freehold and long leasehold them consistently: categories below.
The amounts arising from the - make judgements and estimates that are notional apportionments do not themselves represent reasonable and prudent: the Market Value of the two elements.
- state that the financial statements comply with The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: on a freehold basis where they also hold long leasehold interests within the freehold and have - prepare the financial statements on the going not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to freehold long leasehold split below, we have included presume that the Group will continue in business, such properties within the freehold category.
in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates of the Market Values, as at 30th The Directors confirm that they have complied with September 2008, of the freehold and long leasehold the above requirements in preparing the financial property interests owned by the Company and the statements.
Subsidiary Companies, subject to the Assumptions The Directors are responsible for keeping proper and comments in our Reports dated 14th November accounting records that disclose with reasonable 2008, were as follows:- accuracy at any time the financial position of the Freehold 1,066,980,000 Company and the Group and to enable them to properties One billion, sixty-six million, nine ensure that the financial statements and the hundred and eighty thousand pounds Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006 Long 72,395,000 and, as regards the Group financial statements, leasehold Seventy-two million, three hundred Properties and ninety-five thousand pounds Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Total 1,139,375,000 Company and the Group and hence for taking One billion, one hundred and reasonable steps for the prevention and detection thirty-nine million, three hundred of fraud and other irregularities.
and seventy-five thousand pounds The Directors are responsible for the maintenance A long lease is one with an unexpired term in and integrity of the Companys website and excess of 50 years.
legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The contents of our Reports are confidential to preparation and dissemination of financial Shaftesbury PLC, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, statements may differ from legislation in other Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown jurisdictions.
Limited and Shaftesbury Charlotte Street Limited, The Directors confirmation in accordance with for the specific purpose to which they refer and are Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 is for their use only.
Consequently, and in accordance contained within the Directors Report on page 41. with current practice, no responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the whole or any part of the contents of our Reports or this summary report.
Before our Reports or this summary report, or any part thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any document, circular or statement, the valuers written approval as to the form and context of such publication or disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt such approval is required whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung are referred to by name and whether or not the contents of our Reports or this summary report are combined with others.
John Bareham BSc Hons MRICS Director DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited International Property Advisers One Curzon Street London W1A 5PZ 56
