GLOSSARY OF TERMS Bps abbreviation for basis points.
Other items in the Income Statement include profits and losses together with their related taxation on sales of investment properties Diluted adjusted NAV per share is NAV as adjusted for fair value and items of a non trading nature such as: valuation adjustments adjustments on derivatives less tax and deferred tax on fair value arising from the fair valuing of investment properties and derivative adjustments of investment properties and then the effect of those financial instruments: adjustments arising from the treatment of shares potentially issuable under employee share schemes.
head lease payments as interest: insurance claim proceeds: and certain adjustments arising from the estimation of the cost of Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by the employee share-based payments.
weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined as set out under NAV.
Profit loss before tax PBT is income less all expenditure other than taxation.
Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust created by the Group to hold shares pending exercise of employee share options.
Property Income Distribution PID a dividend generally subject to withholding tax that a UK REIT is required to pay from its EPRA NAV is the definition of net asset value as set out by the tax-exempted property-rental business and which is taxable European Public Real Estate Association.
for UK resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and REIT Real Estate Investment Trust is a listed public company that reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce fulfils the qualification criteria set by FA 2006 s106 and 107 and has based upon the timing of the occupancy of the property and timing of notified HMRC that it wishes to convert.
REITs pay no corporation the income receivable.
This is approximated by the reversionary yield tax on income derived from their property rental business.
multiplied by the Group trend occupancy of 90%.
Rent per sq ft is the current net rent divided by the occupied area.
Estimated rental value ERV or market rental value is the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent, which on the date Reversion Reversionary income is the increase in rent estimated of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new by the Groups external valuers, where the net rent is below the letting or rent review.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant space, expiry of rent free periods or rental Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or by the portfolio Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will as a whole expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
It is calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered by operating profit.
Small and Medium Sized Enterprises SMEs are those businesses with a turnover of less than 1m p. a. or staff of less than 50.
Most IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a company that Workspace customers are SME businesses with staffing of up to 20. produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return obtained by a LIBOR the British Bankers Association London Interbank Offer Rate.
shareholder calculated by combining both share price movements and dividend receipts.
Like-for-like are those properties that have been held throughout a 12 month period and have not been subject to a refurbishment Trading Operations earnings PBT etc is that element of programme in the last 24 months.
earnings PBT etc that arises from trading activity alone.
It therefore excludes Other Items above.
Market rental values see ERV.
Valuation surplus deficit is measured as the property valuation Net assets per share NAV are shareholders funds, divided by the movement in the period, excluding the effect of capital expenditure, number of shares in issue at the period end excluding shares held in property acquisitions or property disposals.
Net rents are current rents excluding any contracted increases and after deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided by the total net lettable area excluding land used for open storage.
Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external valuers.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 89
