INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These parent on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
company financial statements have been prepared under the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008. accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted assurance that the parent company financial statements and the Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free Responsibilities.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited company financial statements and the part of the Directors in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Remuneration Report to be audited.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Opinion companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: consent in writing.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you the parent company financial statements.
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific  LLP information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors London Report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 6 June 2008 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Performance Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Business Review, the Report of the Directors, Directors Responsibilities, the Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Group financial statements and related notes, and the other items included in the contents section.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Workspace Group PLC 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
