PUBLICATIONS INDEX Workspace publishes a wide range of material to assist customers, investors and other interested parties.
The following are the principal documents which are available on the Companys website or in hard copy.
Should you need to order a hard copy or need assistance in accessing any of this material then contact the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office details on page 90.
Document Available in Area of interest hard copy Website link Investors: Investors homepage www.
co. uk investors Annual Accounts www.
co. uk investors financial reports Quarterly Statements www.
co. uk investors financial reports Announcements and Presentations www.
co. uk investors financial reports Listing of our Property Portfolio www.
co. uk investors Customers: Customer Charter www.
co. uk customercharter Small business help and advice useful links www.
co. uk tradelink customerinfo advice Tradelink On line forum for communication, www.
co. uk tradelink advertising, and trading throughout the Workspace customer community The Beginners Guide to finding the Right www.
co. uk  helpful planning Business Space a self help guide to finding accommodation for SMEs Space to Rent - available property information, www.
co. uk  including property descriptions, virtual tours, location maps and brochures.
Or call our lettings team on 020 7369 2389 Taking space with Workspace www.
co. uk  helpful faqs A selection of Frequently Asked Questions Corporate Governance: Governance matters up to date information www.
co. uk investors corporate governance on such matters as Compliance with the Combined Code, matters reserved for the Board, Board Committees terms of reference Risk Management Details of the principal www.
co. uk investors risk management risks facing the Company and details of how these risks are mitigated.
co. uk sustainability Sustainability Report 2007 www.
co. uk sustainability Other Stakeholder publications My Life, My Work, My Space a book documenting the business stories of some Workspace SME customers, in their own words Changing Environments a book tracking the uses of a number of Workspace properties, past and present Dynamic Environments a book illustrating the diversity of Workspace SME customers in their activities and industry sectors Changing Spaces a brochure detailing a number of Workspace refurbishment, intensification of use and change of use schemes Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 91 HELPING LONDONS BUSINESSES GROW We provide space and support to a wide variety of businesses across London: Design space, IT space, Architectural space, Drinks space, Manufacturing space, Diet space, Clothing space, Sports space, Entertainment space, Relaxation space, Travel space, Job space, Advice space, Natural space, Eating space, Social space, Consulting space, Reading space, Thinking space, Green space, Creative Space, Building space, Virtual space, New space, Think space, Modern space, Contemporary space, Affordable space, Different space, Financial space, Help space, Talk space, Big space, Small space, Bright space, Motivational space, Spiritual space, Network space, Next space, Glass space, Practical space, Interactive space, Engineering space, Health space, Eating space, Car rental space, Furniture space, Lighting space, Jewellery space, Restaurant space, Clean living space, Advertising space, Writing space, Movie making space, Cinema space, Environmental space, Consulting space, Workspace helping Londons businesses grow.
If you require information regarding business space in London, visit workspacegroup.
Workspace Group PLC 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 FIND OUT MORE ABOUT WORKSPACE Key investor publications: 1.
Sustainability Report 2006 This annual report is printed on Take 2 Offset, which contains 100% fide-inked pulp from post-consumer recycled waste.
This product is biodegradable, 100% recyclable and elemental chlorine free.
Vegetable based inks were used during production.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement.
Photography by Andy Stewart Designed by Carnegie Orr a Workspace Group customer 020 7610 6140 1.
The Beginners Guide to finding the right business space 2.
Online: Business space search Tradelink Investors Refurbishments, Regenerations and Acquisitions Workspace Group PLC Magenta House 85 Whitechapel Road London E1 1DU T 020 7247 7614 F 020 7247 0157 W workspacegroup.
co. uk If you require information regarding business space in London, call 020 7369 2389 or visit workspacegroup.
