Company accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, unless otherwise stated.
Accounting basis The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the previous revaluation of properties, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Whilst the consolidated accounts have been prepared under IFRS, as required by European law, the Companys accounts continue to be prepared under UK GAAP as permitted.
Land and buildings In the past the Companys principal properties have been valued periodically by professional valuers on an open market, existing use basis.
Following the Companys adoption of FRS 15 in 2001, no further revaluations will be carried out and previous book values will be retained.
Notwithstanding the requirements of FRS 15 all fixed assets are written down to their recoverable amount in the event that any impairment review carried out in accordance with FRS 11 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
The profit or loss on the disposal of land and buildings included in the profit and loss account represents the difference between the net proceeds of sale and the net book amount.
Depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down the cost of all tangible fixed assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
The estimated average life for each major asset category is: n Freehold buildings 15 to 40 years n Computers and office equipment 3 to 5 years n Cars 3 years n Plant and machinery 10 to 15 years Leased assets The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Pensions The defined benefit pension obligations of the Company are financed by contributions to separate funds.
As the Company is unable to reliably and consistently measure its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the funds, the Company accounts as though the funds were defined contribution funds and charges contributions paid directly to the profit and loss account.
Currency translations Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on trading transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
Other exchange differences arising from non-trading items are dealt with through reserves.
Financial instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account over the life of the instrument.
Instruments accounted for as hedges are designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract.
Gains or losses are recognised on maturity of the underlying transaction.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts Shares acquired by the Trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
Movements in the year arising from additional purchases by the Trustees of shares or the receipt of funds due to the exercise of options by employees are accounted for within reserves and shown as a movement in shareholders funds in the year.
Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Companys profit and loss account as incurred.
Share based payments The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated using the Black-Scholes or binomial model as appropriate.
In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based Payment the resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the options.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting as the Company does not use market-based performance criteria.
Dividends Dividends on preference shares are recognised as a liability on an accruals basis.
Other dividends are recognised as a liability when the liability is irrevocable.
Accordingly, final dividends are recognised when approved by shareholders and interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Additional accounting policies The following Group accounting policies, as disclosed on pages 44 to 51, are also relevant to the preparation of the Company financial statements: n n n n n Borrowings Taxation Trade and other receivables Investments Financial risk factors 76 Company accounting policies
