qxd 4 6 08 18:12 Page 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 52 Accounting policies Year ended 31 March 2008 Basis of preparation Upon adoption of IFRS 8 the number of segments reported by the The consolidated and Company financial statements are presented Group may increase as disclosures will more closely follow the in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million management approach.
Upon the amendment to IAS 23 the million except where otherwise indicated.
Group will capitalise all borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
Upon The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc the amendment to IFRS 2 the Group will accelerate the share based have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the payment charge resulting from participants leaving the sharesave European Union EU.
The Company financial statements have scheme treating their leaving as a cancellation rather than a been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and forfeiture.
The fair value factor used at grant will be amended to as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act reflect likely future exits.
Upon the amendment to IFRS 3 the Group 1985.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption will charge fees relating to a business acquisition to profit and loss provided under section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to and not to goodwill, furthermore, any contingent consideration will publish its individual income statement and related notes.
be measured at fair value with changes being credited charged to profit and loss.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets Apart from these, the directors do not anticipate the adoption of and liabilities within the next financial year are the measurement of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the impairment of goodwill and measurement of defined benefit the Groups accounts in the period of initial application.
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the Consolidation value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy allocated.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each selection of a suitable discount rate.
Measurement of defined benefit year using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances obligations requires estimation of future changes in salaries and and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from inflation, mortality rates, the expected return on plan assets and the intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
choice of a suitable discount rate.
Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards with an on which control is transferred to the Group.
At 31 March 2008, effective date after the date of these accounts and interpretations: minority interests represent the 20% interest in Wexford Creamery Limited not held by the Group.
International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS IFRS 8: Operating segments effective for periods beginning Interest in joint ventures on or after 1 January 2009 The Groups investments in joint ventures are accounted for under IAS 23: amendment : Borrowing Costs effective for periods the equity method of accounting.
Joint ventures are entities over beginning on or after 1 January 2009 which the Group has joint control under contractual agreement and IAS 1: amendment : Presentation of Financial Statements which are not subsidiaries.
The reporting date of the major joint effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 venture, Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited, is not identical to the Group IFRS 2: amendment : Share-based Payments Vesting conditions although financial statements are prepared to 31 March each year.
and cancellations effective for periods beginning on or after The company and joint ventures both use consistent accounting 1 January 2009 policies.
The investment in joint ventures is carried in the balance IFRS 3: amendment : Business Combinations effective from sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of 1 July 2009 net assets of the joint ventures, less any impairment in value and IAS 27: amendment : Consolidated and Separate Financial any distributions received.
The income statement reflects the share Statements effective from 1 July 2009 of the results of the joint ventures.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the joint ventures equity, the Group International Financial Reporting Interpretations recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when Committee IFRIC applicable in the consolidated statement of recognised income IFRIC 14: IAS 19 the limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum and expense.
funding requirements and their interaction adopted by the Group and Company in the year ended 31 March 2008 see policy on Foreign currency translation retirement benefit obligations.
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc and its United Kingdom UK subsidiaries is pound sterling.
The functional currency of Wexford Creamery Limited and St Hubert SAS, subsidiary companies incorporated in Ireland and France respectively, is the Euro.
qxd 5 6 08 16:35 Page 53 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 53 Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional Borrowing costs currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred in and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated accordance with IAS 23: Borrowing Costs.
into Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where Investments deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost investment hedges.
being the fair value of consideration paid.
Income is recognised from these investments only in relation to distributions received from postOn consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are acquisition profits.
Distributions received in excess of posttranslated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of acquisition profits are deducted from the cost of investment.
foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year being an approximation of actual exchange Goodwill rates.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the net Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide a subsequently amortised.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate component at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions are met.
over the Groups acquirers interest in the net fair value of the Exchange differences relating to foreign currency borrowings that identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity remain recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated in equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that and credits attributable to exchange differences on those the carrying value may be impaired.
All goodwill was tested for borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no impairment was identified.
Property plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the benefit from the combinations synergies.
Impairment is determined asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in Freehold buildings: 25 years the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this the period of the lease circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of Office equipment: 4 to 6 years the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years unit retained.
Vehicles: 4 to 10 years The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for goodwill, are Dairies, UK Spreads, St Hubert, Speciality Cheese impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that and Cheese excluding Speciality Cheese.
These represent the the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management purposes exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down and are no larger than the segments being Dairies and Foods.
The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and business sold.
the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment transition date of 1 April 2004.
Acquisitions prior to this date are losses are charged to the consolidated income statement.
recorded under previous accounting rules.
IFRS 1 requires that an impairment review of goodwill should be conducted in accordance An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon with IAS 36 at the date of transition and at the balance sheet date.
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise This review was performed and no adjustment was required.
from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income statement in the year that it is derecognised.
The figures in detail DC Accounts v5.0.
qxd 4 6 08 18:12 Page 54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 54 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Cash and cash equivalents Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected For the purposes of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash economic benefits flow to the Group.
Following initial recognition, and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite Interest-bearing loans or indefinite.
Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have finite All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 25 years.
The significant the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the acquired brands have useful lives as follows: borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the St Hubert 25 years effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into Le Fleurier 15 years account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on Valle 15 years settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in net profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Net debt The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash Intangible assets acquired separately from business combinations equivalents, interest-bearing loans and finance leases.
The include software development expenditure.
Software is carried at calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial cost less accumulated amortisation.
Software is amortised over five instruments with the exception of cross-currency swaps to fix years.
Intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested foreign currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash for impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating flow hedges.
In this case the fixed Sterling debt, not the underlying unit level or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances foreign currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Classification of shares as debt or equity Research and development When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the balance sheet: expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs and thereafter recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
The corresponding dividends relating to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the income statement.
The initial fair Recoverable amount of non-current assets value of the liability component is determined using a market rate for At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any an equivalent liability without a conversion feature.
The remainder of indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of the proceeds on issue is allocated to the equity component and impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable included in shareholders equity, net of transaction costs.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its carrying amount of the equity component is not re-measured in recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written subsequent years.
down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs Transaction costs are apportioned between the liability and equity to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, components of the shares based on the allocation of proceeds unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely to the liability and equity components when the instruments are independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Inventories Retirement benefit obligations Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The asset or liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing adjustment for past service costs not yet recognised.
The each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable independent actuary completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business Crest Group pension fund and the Wexford Creamery plan less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
The obligation is updated annually for financial reporting purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Trade and other receivables The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An bonds which have terms to maturity approximating the terms of the estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount related liability.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
qxd 5 6 08 14:48 Page 55 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 55 The current service costs are recognised in operating costs in the Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are included in The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at expected return on assets of funded defined benefit schemes and shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the sale of such the interest on pension scheme liabilities comprise the finance shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised element of the pension cost and the difference between these in the Consolidated income statement.
amounts are included in other finance income or costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full and are charged or apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after credited to the Consolidated statement of recognised income and 7 November 2002. expense in the period in which they arise.
Leased assets IFRIC 14 has been implemented in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group The recognition of any retirement benefit surplus as calculated substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the by the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value is limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum of any real cash benefit the Company will obtain in the future through lease payments.
The net present value of future lease rentals is either reduced potential contributions or cash on a winding up included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest element of of the scheme.
In order to calculate the potential future benefits lease rentals is charged to the Consolidated income statement in consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements agreed the year.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks between the Company and the Pension Trustee.
and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Consolidated Share based payments income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Equity based performance payments The Group and Company have issued equity-settled share based Revenue payment schemes for which they receive services from employees in Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on consideration for the equity instrument.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant date by an net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating external valuer using a Monte Carlo option-pricing model.
The costs sales within the Group.
of equity-settled transactions are recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The cumulative expense recognised for Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until vesting payment is established.
reflects the expired vesting period and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors, will eventually vest after adjusting for Other income the expected achievement of non-market performance conditions.
Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed sites and The amount charged to the Consolidated income statement is household depots.
Exceptional items No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, Certain items are recorded separately in the Consolidated income except for awards where vesting is conditional on market conditions, statement as exceptional.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether the market which result from a restructuring of the business or some other conditions are satisfied.
event or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better understanding of the underlying operational performance of The Group also provides employees with the ability to purchase the the Group.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than Groups ordinary shares at 80% of the fair value at the grant date as a result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional Sharesave Scheme.
The Group records an expense, based on the items.
Exceptional items are not excluded from the basic earnings estimate of the 20% discount related to the shares expected to vest per share calculation.
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period using a Black Scholes option pricing model.
Government and other grants Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where The Company adopted IFRIC 11 in the year ended 31 March 2008. there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods Companys balance sheet.
necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to the Consolidated income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
qxd 4 6 08 18:12 Page 56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 56 Accounting policies continued Income tax IFRS 7 Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount The Group and Company has adopted International Financial expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively for the first time in these financial statements.
This is a disclosure enacted at the balance sheet date.
standard only which has had no impact on the Groups or Companys results or net assets.
The new disclosures are included Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the throughout the financial statements.
balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except Financial assets as indicated below.
The Group and Company classifies financial assets that are within the scope of IAS 39 as financial assets at fair value through profit Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable and loss: loans and receivables: held-to-maturity investments: or as temporary differences except: available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group and Company determines the classification of financial assets at initial where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial yearrecognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or end.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, measured at fair value.
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and Derivative instruments in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and differences can be controlled and it is probable that the foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to fair value at the reported balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can cross-currency swap contracts is determined by reference to market be utilised except: values for similar instruments.
where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent probable forecast transaction, or a firm commitment in relation that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in to foreign exchange exposure: or the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against net investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to which the temporary differences can be utilised.
variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no hedges during the year.
longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred Cash flow hedges income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the tax relating to items recognised directly in equity are recognised in Consolidated income statement.
equity and not in the income statement.
qxd 5 6 08 15:17 Page 57 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 57 When the hedged firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group or Company exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the documents in advance the relationship between the item being recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group or Company also the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the regular basis being at least half-yearly to ensure that the hedge Consolidated income statement in the same year in which the remains highly effective.
hedged item affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or when Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument debt matures.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the are taken directly to the consolidated income statement for the year.
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the highly probable forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged Hedges of net investments in foreign operations transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation for the period.
of those borrowings are recognised in equity.
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion being contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and recognised in the Consolidated income statement whenever characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, applicable.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recycled and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised through the Consolidated income statement on disposal of the gains or losses reported in the income statement.
When the contracts foreign entity.
are closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they are designated at inception and treated as described above.
