162 D SHAR IRECE TH OO RL SD R ER E I PN OF RO T C RMA oT nItO in N ued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION COMPANY SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE This report is available electronically on the Companys N D Jennings, FCA.
website which contains a link to Shareview to enable Northcliffe House shareholders to register for electronic mailings.
Noti cation 2 Derry Street by email has been given of the availability of this Annual London Report on the Companys web site to those shareholders who W8 5TT have registered.
England LOW COST SHARE DEALING SERVICE The Company has arranged with its brokers, JP Morgan Registered Number: 184594 Cazenove Limited, to provide a simple, low-cost share dealing WEBSITE service for A Ordinary Non-Voting shares in Daily Mail and The Group has an internet website which gives information General Trust plc.
on the Company and its operating subsidiaries and provides details of signi cant Group announcements.
It also has a site The main features are: a basic commission of 1% on both giving details of job opportunities within the Group.
purchases and sales subject to a minimum commission of 10 per transaction : reduced commission rates for THE ADDRESSES ARE: transactions over 5,000: and no minimum investment.
co. uk For further details, please contact JP Morgan Cazenove www.
com Limited, Company Share Schemes, at 20 Moorgate, London, EC2R 6DA: the telephone number is 020 7155 5155.
Financial Calendar 2009 provisional 15th January Annual Report published Equiniti also provide a simple low cost dealing service for Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares details of which 11th February Interim management statement are available at www.
co. uk dealing or by calling 11th February Annual General Meeting 0870 850 0852.
13th February Payment of final dividend Details of these and other low cost dealing services can be 29th March Half year end found on the Companys website at www.
co. uk 31st March Payment of interest on loan notes investorrelations.
21st May Half year results and dividend announced LOAN NOTES 29th May Half Yearly Report published on website Loan notes issued by the Company and by Daily Mail and General Investments plc, a subsidiary, are repayable in whole 3rd June Interim ex-dividend date or in part at the option of loan note holders every six months.
5th June Interim record date Loan note holders requiring repayment should complete the 3rd July Payment of interim dividend redemption section on the back of their loan note and send it to reach the Registrars by 28th February or 31st August for 23rd July Interim management statement repayments on 31st March or 30th September respectively.
30th September Payment of interest on loan notes 4th October Year End EUROBOND PAYING AGENT The principal paying agent for the Companys 7.5% Bonds due 26th November Annual results and final dividend announced 2013, 10% Bonds due 2021 and the 6.375% Bonds due 2027 is 2nd December Ex-dividend date Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, 1 Great 4th December Record date Winchester St, London EC2N 2DB.
The principal paying agent for the Companys 5.75% Bonds due 2018 is HSBC Bank plc, CAPITAL GAINS TAX Corporate Trust and Loan Agency, 8 Canada Square, London The market value of both the Ordinary and A Ordinary NonE14 5HQ.
Enquiries should be directed to John Donegan, Voting shares in the Company on 31st March, 1982 adjusted for Group Financial Controller, who can be contacted on 020 7938 the 1994 bonus issue of A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and for 6627, and whose e-mail address is john.
the fourforone share split in 2000 was 9.75 pence.
SHARE PRICE INFORMATION REGISTRARS The current price of the Companys Ordinary and A Ordinary All enquiries regarding shareholdings, dividends, lost share Non-Voting shares can be found on page 516 of Teletext on certi cates, loan notes in the Company and in Daily Mail and analogue Channel 4 and on page 866 of Teletext on digital ITV General Investments plc, or changes of address should be Freeview and Satellite.
A graph, illustrating the historical directed to Equiniti, the Companys Registrars, at the address performance of the A shares, is shown on page 17. set out on page 163.
CREST ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Shareholders have the choice either of holding their shares in Equiniti operate Shareview, a free online service which electronic form in an account on the CREST system or in the enables shareholders with internet access to check their physical form of share certi cates.
shareholdings and other related information and to register to receive noti cation by email of the release of the Half INVESTOR RELATIONS Yearly and Annual Reports.
It also offers practical help on Investor relations are the responsibility of Nicholas Jennings, Company Secretary, whose of ce is responsible for matters such as transferring shares or updating your own distribution of the Annual Report.
He is assisted by Fran details.
Shareholders may register for the service at Sallas.
The investor relations e-mail address is investor.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 SHAREHO D LID RE ER I CTN OR FO SR R M E A P TO IO RN C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 163 SHAREGIFT There are no capital gains tax implications i. e. no gain or In the UK, DMGT supports ShareGift, which is administered loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number obtain income tax relief.
If you would like to use ShareGift 1052686 and which operates a charity share donation or receive more information about the scheme, they can be scheme for shareholders wishing to give small holdings of contacted by visiting their website at www.
org or shares to bene t charitable causes.
It may be especially by writing to the Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor useful for those who wish to dispose of a small parcel of Street, London W1K 3HN.
shares which would cost more to sell than they are worth.
com 2008 164 NOTES Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS DMGT ONLINE DMGT: A MULTIPLE MEDIA BUSINESS DMGT.
CO. UK THE GROUPS BUSINESSES, OTHER THAN ITS NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING, NOW YOU HAVE ACCESS TO MORE INFORMATION ON OUR WEBSITE: MAKE UP 62% OF THE GROUPS OPERATING PROFIT, COMPARED TO 14% TWELVE DMGTS CORPORATE WEBSITE HAS ACHIEVED AN AA ACCESSIBILITY RATING YEARS AGO.
IN INDEPENDENT TESTS, IT IS INDEPENDENTLY REGARDED AS ONE OF THE BEST-PROGRAMMED SITES IN THE FTSE 350 INDEX.
Operating Profit 1996 Operating Profit 2008 88m 317m IN OCTOBER 2008, DMGTS WEBSITE WAS NOMINATED IN THE BEST IR WEBSITE FOR INVESTORS CATEGORY IN THE THOMSON REUTERS EXTEL UK INVESTOR 14% RELATIONS SURVEY.
13m 38% VISIT OUR WEB 2.0 INTERACTIVE ONLINE ANNUAL REPORT AT 122m WWW.
com 2008 to view this as an interactive chart.
Other businesses FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX -2% 3% -9% 08 2,312m 08 317m 08 262m 07 2,235m 07 322m 07 288m STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDEND PER SHARE ABOUT DMGT INVESTOR RELATIONS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY -83% -3% 2% dmgt.
co. uk  Group Overview Financial Announcements The Community 08 27m 08 47.9p 08 14.70p 07 159m 07 49.3p 07 14.35p Board of Directors Financial Calendar The Environment DMGT History Share Information Our Employees before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items: see Consolidated Income Statement on page 71 and reconciliation in Notes 11 and 12 to the Accounts.
DMGT Fact File Analyst Consensus Our Readers Reports and Presentations Financial Markets Board of Directors For Schools CORPORATE STRUCTURE Shareholder Services dmgt.
co. uk corporatestructure CONTENTS Financial Analysis MEDIA CENTRE Management Structure Fixed Income Investors DMG Information dmgt.
co. uk mediacentre 02 Innovations 06 Chairmans Statement 08-41 Business Review 08 Chief Executives Review Contacts for Investors Risk Management Solutions News Releases 20 DMGT at a Glance 22 Management Structure 23-27 Business to Business 23 DMG Information 25 Euromoney Institutional Investor 27 DMG World Media 28-35 Consumer Media 28 A&N Media: Euromoney Image Library CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Associated Newspapers 32 A&N Media: Northcliffe Media 35 DMG Radio Australia 36 Financial and DMG World Media DMGT Factfile Treasury Review 42 DMGT and Corporate Responsibility 45 Board of Directors and Secretary 46 Associated Newspapers dmgt.
co. uk corporategovernance Directors Report 48 Corporate Governance 52 Remuneration Report 70 Independent Auditors Statement Northcliffe Media Board Remit FEEDBACK 71 Consolidated Income Statement 72 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense DMG Radio Australia Committee Remits dmgt.
co. uk contact 72 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity 73 Consolidated Balance Sheet 75 Consolidated Cash Flow DMGT Memorandum and Articles Statement 76 Significant Accounting Policies 85 Notes to the Consolidated Income Statement 100 Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 103 Notes to the Consolidated Balance Sheet 146 Principal Subsidiaries 151 Five Year Financial Summary 153 Independent Auditors Report to the members of the Daily Mail and General Trust plc 154 Company Balance Sheet 155 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet UK GAAP 162 Shareholder Information Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD Photography by Michael Harvey Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report, 28th September, 2008 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT Daily Mail and General Trust plc T 44 0 20 7938 6000 F 44 0 20 7938 4626 W www.
co. uk Annual Report, 28th September, 2008 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review, 28th September, 2008 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT Daily Mail and General Trust plc T 44 0 20 7938 6000 F 44 0 20 7938 4626 W www.
co. uk Annual Review, 28th September, 2008 fiNANCiAL HiGHLiGHTS DMGT ONLiNE DMGT: a MulTiple MeDia business DMGT.
Co. uk THE GROUPS BUSINESSES, OTHER THAN ITS NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING, NOW you Have aCCess To MoRe inFoRMaTion on ouR websiTe: MAKE UP 62% OF THE GROUPS OPERATING PROFIT, COMPARED TO 14% TWELvE DMGTS CORPORATE WEBSITE HAS ACHIEvED AN AA ACCESSIBILITY RATING YEARS AGO.
IN INDEPENDENT TESTS, IT IS INDEPENDENTLY REGARDED AS ONE OF THE BEST-PROGRAMMED SITES IN THE FTSE 350 INDEx.
Operating Profit 1996 Operating Profit 2008 88m 317m IN OCTOBER 2008, DMGTS WEBSITE WAS NOMINATED IN THE BEST IR WEBSITE FOR INvESTORS CATEGORY IN THE THOMSON REUTERS ExTEL UK INvESTOR 14% RELATIONS SURvEY.
13m 38% vISIT OUR WEB 2.0 INTERACTIvE ONLINE ANNUAL REPORT AT 122m WWW.
Other businesses FinanCial HiGHliGHTs REvENUE ADjUSTED OPERATING PROFIT ADjUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAx -2% 3% -9% 08 2,312m 08 317m 08 262m 07 2,235m 07 322m 07 288m STATUTORY OPERATING PROFIT ADjUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DIvIDEND PER SHARE abouT DMGT invesToR RelaTions CoRpoRaTe ResponsibiliTy -83% -3% 2% dmgt.
co. uk  Group Overview Financial Announcements The Community 08 27m 08 47.9p 08 14.70p 07 159m 07 49.3p 07 14.35p Board of Directors Financial Calendar The Environment DMGT History Share Information Our Employees before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items: see Summary Consolidated Income Statement on page 53.
DMGT Fact File Analyst Consensus Our Readers Reports and Presentations Financial Markets Board of Directors For Schools CoRpoRaTe sTRuCTuRe ConTenTs Shareholder Services dmgt.
co. uk corporatestructure Financial Analysis MeDia CenTRe 02 Innovations 06 Chairmans Statement 08-39 summary business Review 08 Chief Executives Review Management Structure Fixed Income Investors 20 DMGT at a Glance 22 Management Structure 23-27 business to business 23 DMG Information DMG Information dmgt.
co. uk mediacentre Contacts for Investors 25 Euromoney Institutional Investor 27 DMG World Media 28-35 Consumer Media 28 A&N Media: Risk Management Solutions News Releases Associated Newspapers 32 A&N Media: Northcliffe Media 35 DMG Radio Australia 36 Financial Euromoney Image Library CoRpoRaTe GoveRnanCe Review 40 DMGT and Corporate Responsibility 43 Board of Directors and Secretary 44 Summary DMG World Media DMGT Factfile Directors Report 46 Summary Remuneration Report 52 Independent Auditors Statement 53 Summary Associated Newspapers dmgt.
co. uk corporategovernance Consolidated Income Statement 54 Summary Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Northcliffe Media Board Remit FeeDbaCk 54 Summary Reconciliation of Movements in Equity 55 Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement DMG Radio Australia Committee Remits 56 Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet 57 Shareholder Information dmgt.
co. uk contact DMGT Memorandum and Articles The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
For further information the separate publication, entitled Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 28th September, 2008, containing the Business Review, the Directors Report, the report on Corporate Governance, the Remuneration Report, the financial statements and the Independent Auditors report on those financial statements, which is unqualified, should be consulted.
Copies may be obtained through our website www.
Shareholders wishing to receive a free copy of the Annual Report and Accounts in future years should write to the Company Secretarys office, Daily Mail and General Trust plc, Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT.
Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD Photography by Michael Harvey iN TiT TR lo e o DU f p CTa io gN e 01 1 CREATING MEDIA BRANDS THAT PEOPLE LOVE WE ARE AT THE HEART OF A FAST CHANGING AND INTERNATIONAL MEDIA INDUSTRY.
OUR PASSION IS CREATING BRANDS AND INNOVATIONS THAT PEOPLE LOVE.
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT HOW WE HAVE BEEN INNOVATING... www.
com 2008 02 iNNovaTioNs sharply from 5.15 minutes in October We are continually PERFORMANCE 2007 to 6.36 minutes in October 2008. innovating to stay During one day this October, Mail Online ahead and compete in visitors spent 147,000 collective hours 19.8m engaged with our content.
Over the unique visitors in October 2008. the digital landscape entire month this totalled 189,916 days.
Mail Online launched a fresh new Since launching its new design Mail design in May, delivering more pictures Online has also developed a new and stories on its homepage than advertising format, the Belly Band, any other UK newspaper website.
offering premium brands access to a The new design has been a success, larger than normal advertising space demonstrated in its annual year on centrally within a page.
A number of year performance: premier brands including Nivea and Pathe Films have been early adopters.
Unique visitors have grown 32% from 13.5 million in October 2007 The Femail fashion reviews have been to 19.8 million in October 2008 : complemented by new functionality that Page impressions have increased enables a user to click & buy directly from 108 million in October 2007 from its pages.
to 151 million in October 2008, a 40% increase.
Mail Online is leading the market in integration of reviews linked directly Less often measured across the to hundreds of retailers.
industry is the time visitors spend engaging with a site.
Mail Online's average time per visit has risen ABCe audited figures, November 2008 D Da ai il ly M y Ma aiil a l an nd d G ge en ne er ra al T l Trru us st p t pll c c A an n n n u u aa l R l R ee vv ie ie w 2 w 2 00 00 88 iNNovaTioNs Continued 03 This led to a decision to build a PERFORMANCE We are seizing the proprietary tool called the Bubble, challenges and possibilities operated by sales staff, which allows them to select and customise top quality that digital platforms are 2m creative advertisements for a client After launch and roll out in February 2007, creating and turning them without the need for a studio or art desk.
Bubble orders now account for over 2 million into opportunities of revenue per year.
And because it only takes them an average of three minutes to customise Northcliffe Media reaches millions of an advert, it means that excellent local people across hundreds of local creative work can be made available communities.
A key factor behind their to clients on a while you wait basis.
future success is the requirement to build and maintain strong relationships The Bubble team produce over 100 ads with local advertisers.
per week and they have already built up a library of 15,000 print ads and over In this Web 2.0 age of online 2,000 online executions covering all personalisation, Northcliffe realises the advertising categories.
Even though the need for constant innovation in order to system focuses on print and online, it is provide modern and efficient advertising completely adaptable to other media.
services that clients expect and to increase their market penetration.
The Bubble is helping Northcliffe to attract, retain and increase advertising revenues.
com 2008 04 iNNovaTioNs Continued PERFORMANCE 150 Over 150 professionals use The Cover daily as a research tool.
com is a daily online-only news service dedicated to the covered bond market.
An extension of the EuroWeek brand, From love online to Mail The Cover was created to engage with Online, our brands are a small community within the fixed income industry that deals primarily continually adapting to a with covered bonds.
This web service fast moving, evolving provides exclusive breaking news as digital landscape new issues are launched, as well as essential information on the secondary markets, relevant regulation, bespoke league tables, opinion polls and stories on the people that matter.
The Cover was specifically designed to allow readers to comment on articles and vote on transactions, and thereby reflect what the market really thinks.
Over 150 professionals, including issuers, investment bankers, credit rating agencies, law firms, regulatory bodies and investors now subscribe to The Cover and use it daily as a research tool.
It is no coincidence that The Cover won the award for best launch of the year at the Specialist Industry Publishers Association conference.
single recruitment CRM has spawned PERFORMANCE I find The Cover to be the best and an entire suite of innovative products, most efficient way of keeping abreast ranging from online application of market developments.
management, social networking tools, 1, 000 Thor Tellefsen, Senior Vice President predictive modelling software, and higher education institutions are served of investor relations and long term by EMT.
retention solutions that allow schools funding, DnB Nor to work with current students.
With the launch and evolution of EMT, Enrolment Management Technology, Hobsons Client Development Model Hobsons has grown into a worldwide has become the standard of service leader in education solutions, serving in higher education technology more than 1,000 institutions of higher consistently outperforming their learning around the world with unique competition with personal attention and technology solutions for recruitment, client engagement.
Hobsons product management, and advancement development is driven entirely by of students.
customer feedback, ensuring that their products consistently meet the needs of As the demand for technology in higher the higher education professional.
EMT education grew louder at the start of also boasts the largest and most diverse the new millennium, Hobsons began to user community in higher education.
EMT was launched in April 2000 of these have helped make Hobsons the with a single web-based customer worlds largest enrollment management relationship management CRM company with the size of its client roster, product to help colleges and universities the number of student records and manage student data and easily send applications processed, and the number electronic communications.
Today, this of students served.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 iNNovaTioNs Continued 05 members worldwide who are PERFORMANCE Customers are our biggest contributing content and benefiting from: success story, and by Real time answers from peers and experts on pressing questions offering our existing 2, 000 Hundreds of downloadable members worldwide are benefiting customers more exciting from EDR.
documents, research reports, products we are attracting podcasts and articles In April 2008 Environmental Data Ongoing discussions concerning many new ones Resources EDR launched market issues, trends, and legislation commonground, the first global Access to blogs, event calendars, business networking community news and business opportunities for environmental professionals Commonground members hail from involved in all aspects of property over 60 countries including the United due diligence.
States, UK, Brazil, Mexico, Italy, China, Hong Kong, India and Australia.
This collaborative network brings together environmental professionals, In September 2008, commonground engineers, mortgage lenders, attorneys, was nominated for a Forrester insurers, appraisers, inspectors and Groundswell Award, and according industry thought leaders and provides to web information statistics, them with real time access to industry commonground is already in the top knowledge, expertise, and learning.
In 1.75% of all web sites in total traffic.
just a few short months, commonground is being harnessed by nearly 2,000 www.
com We have the right people in place, the passion to succeed and we continue to delight our customers 06 6 T Cih Ta lie o RMf p aNa s s geTaTeMeNT TiTle of page ChaiRMaNs sTaTeMeNT THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE TO VIEW THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERES VIDEO STATEMENT GO TO: CHAIRMAN WWW.
COM 2008 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANSSTATEMENT Q: economic conditions around the Q: We keep reading about the credit world are very tough at the moment.
crunch and companies being unable how is the group faring?
are DMgTs finances in good shape?
a: it has been a challenging year for the group and the next 12 months a: Most importantly in the current look likely to be even more markets, our financing arrangements challenging.
The world has been hit are long term and secure.
We by a financial crisis, unprecedented in undertook a 200 million sterling the last 50 years, and DMgT cannot bond issue in June 2007, shortly be immune to that.
however, our before the bond markets effectively policy of investing in market leading closed down.
in september 2008, businesses will mean that we should we extended our banking facilities, be able to grow our market share which were due to expire in october and emerge stronger.
2009, partly for three years and partly for five years.
in the short term, given set against this background, i am the uncertainty of our markets, our pleased to be able to report results focus is on cash generation and showing revenues slightly up on last increasing our financial flexibility.
year, and profits only 9% lower.
This has been achieved due to the strong These funding arrangements enable performance of our business to us to move forwards with confidence business operations, while our UK and to make the investments in our consumer businesses had to cope businesses of which i spoke earlier.
The fact that the group has grown Q: You spoke in your statement last its revenues in such circumstances year of the spirit of innovation in the is an affirmation of our continued group.
Will this survive these tough diversification into business to trading conditions?
a: i believe it is vital for our future prosperity that it does and, from Q: how are you going to react to these what i have seen, it is very much conditions?
a: given the likely economic picture for Northcliffe, our regional media the next year or more, we have had business, is going through a torrid no choice but to reduce our costs time in terms of advertising revenue where appropriate.
i am afraid that trends and profitability.
Yet, even this will inevitably mean a loss of during such tough times, it was able some jobs, but we hope, in large to launch the Messenger series part, to achieve this by not filling of free titles in the east Midlands.
vacancies and not replacing those aimed at affluent, small town who choose to leave.
populations, the series has captured it is important to remember that an attractive market, been profitable whilst we must find ways of from the day of launch, and now improving efficiency we must not extends to 14 editions, with plenty cut into the heart of our business for more planned.
Northcliffe has also short-term benefits.
DMgT prides launched an online, self-service itself on taking a long view and advertising platform, called the ideally wants to see its businesses Bubble, which has the capacity to streamline their operations whilst revolutionise local media advertising.
investing in growing market share.
euromoney has created the DMgT has always performed euromoney Business library, strongly as we have emerged from an online searchable receptacle tough times and, however difficult of all the content from their many the circumstances seem now, i publications.
genscape has launched firmly believe that we will look back a platform to measure natural gas on this time as one of opportunity.
production from refineries, using advanced wave technology.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 TiTle of page ChaiRMaNs sTaTeMeN TiT T C le o on f p tinu ag ee d 07 7 associated has developed a thriving i became Chairman.
i shall miss him VISIT WWW.
CO. UK business, direct marketing chosen and wish him well for his retirement.
products and services to the readers Marius gray has informed me of his of the Mail titles.
intention to retire from the Board in further details of these and other July 2009 after 24 years service.
he innovations are given in this annual has been a great source of advice Review.
i am determined that both to my father and to me, and will we continue to encourage such be a tough act to follow.
him also and wish him a long and happy retirement.
Q: We have recently seen the retirement eURoMoNeY has CReaTeD of Charles sinclair as Chief Q: You have always emphasised the eURoMoNeY BUsiNess liBRaRY executive, with Martin Morgan taking importance of people within DMgT.
in eNaBliNg UseRs To seaRCh CoNTeNT fRoM TheiR over at a most interesting time.
how these tough times, what do you have pUBliCaTioNs oNliNe.
do you feel the transition has gone?
to say to the groups employees?
a: i referred last year to Charles a: i do indeed believe that talented retirement after 21 years as Chief people are at the heart of DMgT executive.
it was the strategic and we must nurture and develop decision of Charles and my father that talent if we want to drive the in the early 1990s to diversify the Company forward.
This current groups activities and particularly recession will test our resolve on to invest in business to business this issue but im confident that we information companies.
That decision will remain true to our beliefs.
is being shown now to be very We should remember that, at the The ResilieNT peRfoRMaNCe of prescient.
We send him all our best moment, the resilient performance soMe of oUR BUsiNesses is as NoTeWoRThY as The gRoWTh wishes for the next stage in his career.
of some of our businesses is as aChieveD BY oTheRs.
noteworthy as the growth achieved Martin Morgan duly took over as by others.
The Board and i are very Chief executive on 1st october, grateful for the dedication and hard and has certainly hit the ground work of all the Companys staff.
given that his ascension coincided with the worst of the Q: how do you see the financial crisis, he has had little coming year?
i think the transition has been painless, for which Charles a: it is going to be another tough year deserves great credit.
ahead, but i firmly believe that DMgT will be stronger at the end Q: has Martin made any changes to the of it.
We have strong businesses executive team?
with media brands that people love and dedicated, talented a: We have strengthened our team with employees.
Difficult times are a the appointment of Joe McCollum as wonderful opportunity to improve head of human Resources or, as we market shares we intend to take like to describe him, our Talent that opportunity.
also, we recruited suresh Kavan from Thomson Reuters, to Rothermere replace Martin as head of DMg Chairman information.
They are both making a great contribution already.
Q: Will there be any other changes to the Board this year?
a: ian park has indicated that he will not stand for re-election to the Board at the agM in february.
following a distinguished career in journalism and regional press management, latterly as Managing Director of Northcliffe, ian has served on the DMgT Board for 14 years.
he has provided me with adjusted profits before tax, amortisation excellent advice since i first came and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items.
into the group and particularly since www.
com 2008 08 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Chief exeCUTives RevieW MARTIN MORGAN TO VIEW MARTIN MORGANS VIDEO STATEMENT GO TO: CHIEF EXECUTIVE WWW.
COM 2008 OVERVIEW  oUR sTRaTegY foR fUTURe sUCCess foCUses oN ThRee KeY aReas foCUsiNg oN BUsiNess fUNDaMeNTals iN ToUgh eCoNoMiC CiRCUMsTaNCes gRoWiNg oUR BUsiNess foCUseD MeDia sUppoRTiNg oUR NeWspapeRs aND iNvesTiNg iN CoNsUMeR DigiTal BUsiNesses oUR sTRaTegY of CReaTiNg This business review is a summary operating divisions.
a financial Review a DiveRsifieD iNTeRNaTioNal of the Business Review included in the follows on pages 36 to 39. poRTfolio of MaRKeT-leaDiNg full annual Report and accounts.
it is opeRaTioNs aCRoss BoTh BUsiNess aND CoNsUMeR framed, having in mind the principles DMgTs philosophY CoMpaNies has pRoviDeD and guidelines for operating and DMgTs practice over many years CoNsiDeRaBle oveRall ResilieNCe aND leaves Us financial Reviews published by the has been to take advantage of its Well posiTioNeD To DeliveR UK accounting standards Board in shareholding structure to invest for loNg-TeRM gRoWTh.
2006. it describes the main operational the long term in order to generate value and financial factors underpinning for its shareholders.
Control by a the development, performance and founding family is a model which has position of the group as well as those been demonstrated to serve the media likely to affect performance over the industry well over time.
our strategy coming year, illustrating this with key takes as given the controlling familys performance indicators.
wish that the groups investments will be media businesses: be operated with This Chief executives Review sets a view to sustaining good medium to out the nature, objectives and strategy long-term returns: and be financed and of the group, together with the principal managed on a prudent risk and reward risks and uncertainties we face.
We are prepared to have a long followed on pages 23 to 35 by a timeframe to investment maturity and business review of the development realisation, provided the business in adjusted operating profit before and performance of each of our question is a market leader, growing exceptional items and amortisation and achieving strong margins.
and impairment of tangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued 09 The gRoUps oBJeCTive is To Be flow progressively away from a NaTURe of The BUsiNess The oWNeR of high QUaliTY dependence on UK newspapers.
DMgT is a multiple media business, sUsTaiNaBle MeDia pRopeRTies, our national newspapers have done WhiCh leaD TheiR MaRKeTs.
as illustrated on pages 20 and 21 of this tremendously well, faring much better annual Review, operating in different than others, and remain highly profitable.
markets, each within its particular We have continued to invest in them in competitive and regulatory order to grow their market-leading environments.
Whereas the groups earnings is devolved to our divisions whose grew strongly in the late 1990s largely boards the executive Directors chair.
due to our newspapers, more recently We operate with a light touch from the it is our business-focused operations centre, relieving line management of that have shown stronger earnings public company activities that do not growth.
hence our strategy has been contribute at the operating level, but to invest in DMgi and euromoney where strong financial controls, particularly performance has been excellent: and over capital allocation, are retained at in exhibitions where performance has the centre.
DMgTs objectives are been improving.
so capital allocation embedded into the thinking of each over the long term has seen a move of our divisional management teams.
towards investment in B2B operations, a trend we see continuing.
our operations are divided between business to business B2B and as a consequence of this deliberate consumer media.
B2B comprises DMg deployment of capital, an increased information DMgi, with RMs now percentage of the groups revenues becoming a separate division, euromoney is generated from revenue streams and DMg World Media.
Consumer media other than advertising, principally is made up of associated and Northcliffe subscriptions and events.
a significant Media and DMg Radio australia.
in part of our operations are now outside september, we established a&N Media, We iNTeND To TURN DMgT iNTo a the UK and the groups exposure to a structure to share services across TRUlY gloBal gRoWTh CoMpaNY, regulation has been greatly reduced both newspaper divisions and to BUilDiNg oN The soliD aND DiveRsifieD plaTfoRM ThaT We so that in 2008 more than 60% of its improve operational efficiency.
operating profits were derived outside sTRaTegY newspaper publishing, compared to The groups objective is to be the owner 14% in 1996. of high quality sustainable media properties, which lead their markets, looking back over the past five years, thereby generating a premium return as shown on page 38, the groups for shareholders.
since 1996, our overall performance has been strategy has been to continue to sustain reasonable, but recently more mixed.
and invest in our market leading UK Northcliffe has been the largest newspapers, and to acquire or develop contributor of net cash in the period, but high growth media businesses on this cannot now be assumed in future.
By a This means that tougher choices will be combination of these objectives, we seek needed as to where to allocate capital.
to drive up DMgTs overall share rating.
DMgT operational model having taken over as Chief executive The approach to managing the groups only at the start of the new financial divisions and those divisions strategies year, i am working with the Chairman has not changed in recent years.
The to refresh our long-term strategy, DMgT operational model has been for although the current focus is inevitably generally autonomous divisional on leading the group through its management, strong incentives based short-term challenges.
i plan to make a on performance and central control of statement to the market in March 2009 surplus capital and of its re-investment.
on our plans for the group.
This will include how we intend to turn DMgT into over the last few years, it has become a truly global growth company, building clear that the rate of change within the on the solid and diversified platform that group has needed to quicken, given the we have established.
threat to traditional media forms and the opportunities from new technologies.
allocation of capital The need for the group to go faster led DMgTs owner minded structure has directly to: the decision in 2004 to put allowed it to deploy a consistent capital a Capital appreciation plan Cap into allocation plan over time, moving cash euromoney institutional investor: www.
com 2008 10 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued the strategic review of Northcliffe programme over the last few years, Combined revenue Media during 2005 6: and to a strategic which will continue.
But most critically review of DMg World Media undertaken we will be maintaining revenue 849m last year.
investment where we have growth Combined revenue of our B2B opportunities, for example Jobsite, companies.
The motivating impact of the Cap on RMs, genscape, Mail online and euromoneys senior management Northcliffe international.
euromoney is Total investment turbo-charged its performance over maintaining a similar policy.
the period of the scheme, after several 459m years of flat earnings, and in 2008 the Business to business Total investment in DMgi since 1996. second tranche of its Cap vested as over the years we have built a euromoney again reported record significant and highly successful group profits.
We have agreed to support of companies in B2B, with combined the proposed introduction of a new revenues of 849 million and with a Cap following the satisfaction of the healthy operating margin of 22%.
performance tests for the final tranche of the first Cap.
We have put long term Whilst our B2B group is expected to incentive plans into other divisions also.
experience some negative impacts from the economic downturn, these should be short term considerations significantly less severe than in the We completed our budgets during consumer group, providing an important august and early september, but with protection on the downside.
the rapidly changing environment, we spent october revisiting all of them DMg information and are now running the business DMgis overall growth story continued, against new detailed action plans.
Cash though not without some reverses of a generation is a priority, with constraints cyclical rather than structural nature, on capital expenditure and we are with the tough market conditions monitoring trading very closely.
prevailing in the property markets affecting its year on year performance.
Within a&N Media, at associated The business made another record Newspapers we quickly took action to operating profit and maintained the increase revenue by raising the cover impressive growth in its profits from price of the Daily Mail on saturdays.
We a standing start in 1998, illustrated on have also introduced a tighter publishing page 24. programme through a whole range of measures which include controlled issue Total investment in DMgi now amounts sizes, tighter advertising to editorial to 459 million since 1996, net of ratios, reductions in the weight of paper disposals.
in 2008, Dolphin and the and more efficient distribution.
european graduate recruitment businesses of hobsons were sold and Regrettably we are reducing we made bolt-on acquisitions to our staff numbers, and a number of property and energy divisions and for reorganisations have been hobsons in the education market.
implemented, for example in the advertising sales operation.
DMgis purpose is investing in musthave high growth innovative business at Northcliffe Media, a significant information companies.
Common reorganisation of the business is characteristics shared by our operating underway which also involves staff companies are the provision of essential reductions.
The formation of a&N information and analysis by combining Media is facilitating a speeding up of large databases with proprietary operational synergies between software, the resulting products associated and Northcliffe in areas delivered to customers in electronic which make up iT, purchasing, form.
DMgis remit is to diversify DMgT technology, transportation, printing by sector, by business model and by and accounting.
We have restricted new acquisitions to its strategy will remain focused on those which are strategic bolt-ons to investing in those companies with existing growth companies.
They will be attractive business model few in number and small in cost.
We characteristics, strong market have been running a disciplined disposal positions, growth potential and Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued 11 operating profits entrepreneurial management.
although of 21 million DMGI's expected growth the current turmoil in the property and compared to under 3 million in 2003. financial markets inevitably makes the 15% short-term outlook uncertain, we still euromoneys strategy is equally We still expect DMgi to grow its expect DMgi to grow its business applicable in tough trading conditions business by around 15% per annum annually by around 15% per annum over and will continue to drive its activities in over the cycle.
the course of an economic cycle due to 2009. its strong cash generation means it the strength of its business models and can sustain its investment in high quality rate of product innovation.
subscription products, new events and the quality of editorial.
euromoney will in July, we recruited suresh Kavan continue with this strategy, even if from Thomson Reuters as my revenues come under pressure in the successor.
suresh is a proven leader short term as customers react to with an outstanding record of success pressure on their own earnings, because in growing information businesses such we believe it will deliver excellent growth as those which make up DMgi.
he is in the medium and longer term.
The already bringing fresh thinking and focus on costs and maintaining margins energy to the portfolio, but the broad will increase.
thrust of strategy will continue unchanged.
euromoneys acquisition strategy has been to look for small, specialist We have decided henceforth to establish transactions that complement its RMs as a separate division from DMgi, existing businesses and provide scope led by hemant shah, its co-founder in for strong organic growth.
No significant 1989 and chief executive since 1999. acquisition has been completed since RMs has been owned by DMgT for 10 october 2006, largely due to its focus on years and is an integral part of the the integration of Metal Bulletin and the group, but its success has brought it to reduction of its debt.
it remains keen to a size which justifies standing alone as make small acquisitions, which are a new division, so from 2009, we will be easily financed from its strong operating reporting its results separately.
cash flows, but it is unlikely to make any significant acquisitions over the coming euromoney institutional investor 12 months.
euromoneys strategy over the past five years has been to build a more resilient DMgT spent 27 million, acquiring further siNCe 2003, eURoMoNeYs and better focused business.
This shares in euromoney up until february to ReveNUes have MoRe ThaN DoUBleD aND sUBsCRipTioN strategy has been executed through increase its interest to 66%, following its ReveNUes have iNCReaseD increasing the proportion of revenues dilution from 69% due to the issue of ThReefolD.
derived from subscription products: shares in 2006 to part fund the acquisition investing in products of the highest of Metal Bulletin plc.
The Board regards quality that customers will value in tough euromoney as a core business and our times as well as good: eliminating objective is that DMgTs diluted holding products with a low margin or too high a should not fall again below 60%.
dependence on advertising: maintaining tight cost control at all times: retaining DMg World Media and fostering an entrepreneurial culture: The execution of the 2007 strategic plan and making selective acquisitions to continues.
This involves focusing on the accelerate that strategy.
B2B sector which is growing strongly and where the growth opportunities are The success of this strategy is greatest.
as part of this plan, we highlighted by euromoneys 2008 accelerated the acquisition of george results.
since 2003, revenues have little Management glM, which was more than doubled.
in the same period, completed at the start of the year in subscription revenues have increased order to unlock value through increased threefold and are now nearly double the efficiencies, establishing a new business level of advertising revenues.
it has to retail B2R sector, comprising the also made a successful transition former glM exhibitions, and the gift and from a predominantly publishing driven surf exhibitions already owned by us.
The business to one with significant North american home shows within the activities in events and training, and business to consumer B2C division more recently in the provision of were successfully sold in July, followed electronic information and database by the antiques Trade gazette early in the services.
in 2008 these accounted for new financial year.
com 2008 12 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued in september a&N Media was our total investment in DMg World DMG World Media investment established to deliver all its consumer Media since 1995, net of disposals, rose newspaper and digital brands through to approximately 450 million in the 450m associated Newspapers and Northcliffe year.
in 2008, B2B continued its investment in DMg World Media Media, while realising the efficiencies successful development of its exhibitions since 1995. that this combination brings about.
and events, with Dubai, energy and This creates a structure for the shared Technology being outstanding.
services already in place, such as printing, marketing and procurement, Consumer media and those to come, including finance.
our UK newspaper operations are further progress was made in editorial bearing the brunt of the economic and media buying and further efficiencies slowdown with classified advertising came from external printing and being the first to be affected earlier in promotions.
The cost base of our the year.
national newspapers continues to adjust to a lower level of revenue growth due to associated Newspapers VISIT WWW.
CO. UK the likely migration online of display and The longer term outlook for associated classified revenues at varying speeds.
our objective is to meet this challenge We continue to invest in editorial quality.
without losing the powerful advertising The graph on page 31 demonstrates response from an engaged readership, the extent to which the Mail titles have given that the Mail titles have a most continued to increase their market envied position in the UK market and share, due to their strong brands.
that associated are efficient publishers The value of the Mails readership is of high quality publications.
associated underpinned by market research is growing its enterprise revenue, encapsulated in Modern Mid Britain.
selling goods and services to readers.
We are working to create a viable We Believe ThaT sTRoNg strategy to monetise better the Mails TRUsTeD BRaNDs WiTh DigiTal CoNTeNT Will pRevail iN The our aim is to publish the most readership through database marketing.
entertaining and informative media and Metro is well established.
we believe that strong trusted brands with premium content will ultimately associateds margins, reflecting the prevail in the digital world.
in 2008, national newspaper sector, remain the companion websites were fully relatively low, but the programme of integrated into the editorial process of cost and efficiency improvements our newspapers and from 1st october, started in response to the worsening 2008, Mail Digital has been established trading conditions, prevailing since as a separate business.
its strategy is to the summer, aims to protect them.
provide a market leading website which progress has also been made with leverages the content of the Mail brands london lites business plan.
The to exploit and develop online commercial evening standard has established a opportunities, both in conjunction and market position as the quality london separate from the print operations.
its priority remains to stabilise revenue which will inevitably as illustrated on page 2, Mail online was be challenging in the short term.
it re-launched in May, backed by the Mails continues to exercise stringent cost formidable editorial resources.
The london publishing market online has access to all of the Mails remains a key focus of management.
editorial content and stories are broken online.
further revenue opportunities harmsworth printing successfully will emerge as the Mail becomes more completed its press enhancement interactive, getting closer to its readers programme on schedule in January.
in 2008 the titles The final stage of the colour investment companion websites achieved a near programme culminated with the trebling of total digital revenues from commissioning of full colour capability a low base.
short-term costs, benefiting from a fall in the price of newsprint from 1st January, were our strategy at associated Northcliffe contained despite the additional expense Digital aND has involved investments of full colour printing.
to increase exposure to areas of the Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued 13 We will continue to transform online advertising market pertinent to DIGITAL REVENUE GROWTH SINCE 2004 Northcliffe into a local information associated.
first of all, in 2004, we network.
The three building blocks at acquired Jobsite which has proved 88m the core of this vision are the local highly successful, retaining its audience, local relationships with outstanding management team with 473% SINCE advertising customers and a sustainable aND providing the central expertise to 2004 operating model.
We have built a presence also in the online property, 15m since the year end, a new regional motors and dating markets and through operating structure has been Teletext in travel.
We exited the utility implemented which will allow Northcliffe switching market in March.
to benefit from its scale in the south West and in the Midlands and North of associated invested 23 million in the england.
in addition to its divisional cost year on acquiring bolt-on value cutting measures, we will improve enhancing media properties, bringing to operational efficiency through a&N 192 million the total invested in pure Pure play digital investment Media.
our objective is to create a play digital consumer businesses since leaner, more nimble, cost-efficient 2004. aND is one of the leading players 192m organisation through further regional in the UK digital media industry with old Total invested in pure play digital consolidation and through streamlining medias best set of digital consumer consumer businesses since 2004. the business, benefiting from the a&N assets, and its objective is to be the Media restructuring.
number one or two business in each chosen market.
in conjunction with its Northcliffes key online commercial product development strategy, we are platforms in jobs, property and motors investing heavily in building brand are provided by aND.
have access to a powerful combination of media platforms when they place an in May we created the Digital property advertisement in print and online.
We group, bringing all our property brands are now in a position to demonstrate within a single management structure.
that this combination delivers the best This combination provides estate agents proposition to advertisers.
and new home developers with exposure to a larger and more The titles acquired in the south of differentiated audience.
england in July 2007 have been badly affected by the adverse conditions in Northcliffe Media local advertising.
We do not expect to We reorganised Northcliffe Media in make further significant acquisitions in 2006 and 2007, creating a business with UK local media.
strong capability as an integrated provider of local media services.
its DMg Radio strategy is focused on meeting local DMg Radio australia DMgRa was reader and advertiser requirements established in 1996 with a plan to build a across a variety of media formats.
national metropolitan fM broadcasting Digital publishing is a key component.
JoBsiTe, aCQUiReD iN 2004, has network through the australian pRoveD highlY sUCCessfUl.
overseas, it is expanding within the governments licence auction process emerging economies of Central europe with the intention of delivering an above where there are good growth prospects average return on investment.
Net both in print and online.
investment since its creation has totalled 200 million.
progress has been slower Northcliffe encountered exceptionally than we had hoped when we embarked challenging regional advertising upon its expansion in 2000, but was markets in 2008 as the impact of the made this year with the Nova network credit crunch spread across the wider achieving further good growth, driven economy.
These adverse economic largely by an increase in its share of conditions look set to continue for the national revenue.
The vega stations next two years and will compound the underlying structural challenges improved their ratings position, but their caused by the migration of readers and overall performance was disappointing.
DMgRa returned to profitability and our australian management team remains www.
com 2008 14 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued highly concentrated on the task before pRiNCipal RisKs aND them which is to provide DMgT with a UNCeRTaiNTies return on its investment.
The principal risks and uncertainties the group faces vary across the different businesses and are the focus of the Risk in the UK, our continuous participation Committee which i chair.
These risks Nova aChieveD gooD gRoWTh This in the commercial radio industry from YeaR, DRiveN BY aN iNCRease iN are identified in the DMgT group Risk its creation in 1973 ended when the iTs shaRe of NaTioNal ReveNUe.
The materiality of each risk is board of gCap Media plc recommended assessed against a framework to global Radios timely offer for the determine its significance and likelihood company.
We realised 53 million for of occurrence.
The Risk Register is used our 14% stake.
to determine the agenda and activity of the Risk Committee.
The most material summary inherent risks identified in the Risk During 2008, DMgT performed Register, together with the steps taken resiliently in difficult trading conditions The gRoUps geogRaphiC spReaD to mitigate them, are described below.
and we successfully sold a number of aND DiveRse poRTfolio help DilUTe The iMpaCT of KeY RisKs.
our strategy of The geographic spread and diverse creating a diversified international portfolio of businesses within the group portfolio of market-leading operations help to dilute the impact of some of the across both business and consumer groups key risks.
Certain of these risks companies has provided considerable are interdependent and should not be overall resilience and leaves us well considered in isolation.
positioned to deliver long-term growth.
exposURe To ChaNges iN The although the worsening economic eCoNoMY aND CUsToMeR speNDiNg conditions during the year had an paTTeRNs adverse impact on the newspaper and general economic conditions and the property businesses, our B2B divisions financial health of our customers can continued to perform well.
The short positively or negatively affect the term outlook remains difficult and we performance of all of our businesses are taking decisive action to defend to some degree.
however, the groups economic outlook, especially in the UK strong cash flow will also allow and Us economies, represents a continued selective internal investment significant risk to the group.
in addition, to ensure our businesses achieve their a significant proportion of our revenue full potential.
is derived from advertising which has historically been cyclical, with growth will be driven by businesses companies spending less on advertising which operate in growth markets: have in times of economic slowdown.
our products that are highly innovative and commitment to investment in our core valued: market-leading positions: strong brands and products and the diverse entrepreneurial management and which nature of the groups revenues helps us benefit from our long-term perspective.
to reduce the effect of these fluctuations by maintaining the strength of our ResoURCes products in their markets.
The groups main resources are its brands, people, reputation and the The iMpaCT of TeChNologiCal market-leading position of its major aND MaRKeT ChaNges oN oUR businesses.
in order actively to pursue CoMpeTiTive aDvaNTage our intention constantly to raise the our businesses operate in highly quality and performance of our people, in competitive environments that can be february, we appointed DMgTs first ever subject to rapid change.
our products human Resources Director, Joe and services, and their means of McCollum, who is making outstanding delivery, are affected by technological progress on a co-ordinated talent agenda innovations, changing legislation, across the group.
DMgT will invest in its competitor activity or changing people in order to grow.
a structural Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued 15 or significantly affect our cost base.
change in the advertising markets VISIT The importance of travel to many of WWW.
CO. UK resulting in significant advertising our event businesses increases the moving away from our traditional sensitivity of our results to incidents products to the internet has affected that may affect confidence in travel to our results both positively and specific destinations.
We have developed an internet strategy for each of our main ReliaNCe oN KeY MaNageMeNT segments of advertising revenue.
aND sTaff in order to pursue our strategy, we are The decentralised autonomous reliant on key management and staff culture of the group encourages an across all our businesses.
We cannot entrepreneurial approach to the We have DevelopeD aN iNTeRNeT predict with certainty that we will enjoy development of new opportunities sTRaTegY foR eaCh of oUR MaiN continued success in our recruitment segMeNTs of aDveRTisiNg in response to these threats and we ReveNUe.
and retention of high quality must continue to invest and adapt to management and creative talent.
our strategy of diversification and willingness to take The addition of a group human a long-term view helps us to react to Resources Director in february is these challenges and opportunities.
helping us develop mitigating actions and we have a number of measures peNsioN sCheMe shoRTfalls in place in each division to address We operate defined benefit schemes this risk.
These include payment of for our newspaper divisions and certain competitive rewards, employee senior executives.
Reported earnings performance and turnover monitoring may be adversely affected by changes and a variety of approaches to staff in our pension costs and funding communication.
in addition, divisional requirements due to lower than management are tasked with reviewing expected investment returns, changes staff performance and with developing in demographics and particularly longer appropriate succession plans.
These risks are considered with the scheme trustees pRiCe volaTiliTY of NeWspRiNT as part of the three yearly actuarial Newsprint represents a significant valuation.
a funding approach to the proportion of our costs within the end of December 2010 and an asset newspaper divisions.
Newsprint prices allocation strategy, designed to reduce are subject to volatility arising from and diversify the risk inherent in the variations in supply and demand.
investment portfolios, have been generally, these variations are not large, agreed.
These and other proposed but from time to time increases are actions, together with the introduction significant.
in april of updated defined contribution The groups newsprint requirements are pension plans in all divisions, will help monitored by the Newsprint Committee to control pension liabilities and costs and, where possible, long-term incurred by the group.
Recent turmoil in arrangements are agreed with suppliers global equity markets has increased our to limit the potential for volatility.
The schemes are still neutral in cash flow terms and so are aCQUisiTioN aND Disposal RisK not needing to sell assets.
as well as launching and building new businesses, an integral part of our iMpaCT of a MaJoR DisasTeR oR success has, and will continue to be, the oUTBReaK of Disease acquisition of businesses that any disaster, such as a geopolitical complement our existing products or event or a pandemic, such as influenza, which significantly affects the wider expand the scope of our expertise into environment or infrastructure in a new markets.
a number of risks are sector where the group has material inherent within any strategy to acquire.
operations, could adversely affect the The group generally acquires businesses group.
although plans and procedures with a high potential for growth in related are in place to manage the impact of markets.
The majority of acquisitions such risks, the event might affect our considered are smaller add-on ability to produce and deliver our acquisitions, which reduces the size of products, reduce the demand for them, the risk of each acquisition to the group.
com 2008 16 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued legal aND RegUlaToRY There are risks to our ability to achieve DMgT businesses are subject to varying optimal value from disposals including legislation and regulation across the incorrect timing of any sale, the oUR sUCCess Relies oN The several jurisdictions including health inability to identify and agree a deal with aCQUisiTioN of BUsiNesses ThaT and safety and employment law as well CoMpleMeNT exisTiNg pRoDUCTs a purchaser, the unsuccessful oR eNaBle expaNsioN iNTo as more specific regulations such as separation of a business and NeW MaRKeTs.
from the office of fair Trading and the management of any related costs, as audit Bureau of Circulation aBC.
well as the failure to realise any other Changes to this legislation or anticipated benefits of a disposal.
regulations could adversely affect the results and future trading of the ReliaNCe oN iT iNfRasTRUCTURe business.
Whilst employees need to be all of our businesses are dependent on responsible for their own health and technology to some degree.
information safety, they are made aware of health systems are critical for the effective and safety and of employment rights management and provision of services through the employee handbook.
Disruption to our Controls are also in place surrounding information technology infrastructure compliance with the aBCs regulations or failure to implement new systems and other regulatory bodies to which effectively could result in lost revenue we adhere.
This is particularly relevant in our newspaper TReasURY RisK divisions which are in the process of There are a number of risks arising implementing a new and shared finance from the groups Treasury operations system.
Dedicated project management including currency exchange rate teams are used to manage the risk in fluctuations impacting on the groups any change project and business reported earnings, liquidity risk, continuity plans are in place in each interest rate risk and debt levels.
The division to protect existing systems.
current problems in global financial markets as a result of the credit crunch iNfoRMaTioN seCURiTY and banking crisis heighten the risk in information security has become an this area.
in addition the treasury important issue in recent years as a oUR high QUaliTY MaNageMeNT function within DMgT undertakes result of several high profile losses of aND CReaTive TaleNT aRe KeY To high value transactions and therefore data.
We suffered our own information oUR BUsiNess sUCCess.
there is inherently a risk of treasury security incident during the year which fraud or error.
has increased the focus on, and attention given to, this important issue.
Tax RisK information security risks are managed The group operates within many by divisional management teams and a jurisdictions: our earnings are therefore group-wide policy has been set.
any subject to taxation at differing rates future breach in our data security could across these jurisdictions.
Whilst we have a harmful impact on our business endeavour to manage our tax affairs in and reputation.
an efficient manner, due to an ever more complex international tax environment CliMaTe ChaNge there will always be a level of The risks associated with climate uncertainty when provisioning for our change include the introduction of or a RevieW of The iMpaCT of tax liabilities.
There is also a risk of tax increase in legislation and regulation CliMaTe ChaNge has BeeN laws being amended by authorities in of the environmental impact of our peRfoRMeD.
the different jurisdictions in which we operations.
in the longer term, the operate which would have an adverse physical impact of climate change effect on our financial results.
Working could affect our business locations, with divisional management and distribution routes or third party external experts we have a team of suppliers.
a group wide review of the impact of climate change was in-house specialists who review all tax performed in 2008 to identify the key arrangements within the group and risks and opportunities for the group keep abreast of changing legislation.
presented by future climate change.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued 17 shaRe pRiCe peRfoRMaNCe This led to considerable volatility in Share price performance share performance remains important the price which fell as low as 2.59 in to us as a measure that our strategy July, before recovering somewhat to 74% and prospects are understood.
More recently, our share price performance time our strong historic operating we have out-performed our peers since 1988, relative to the fTse performance has been recognised by due perhaps to an appreciation of our all share index.
the market, as can be seen from the diversification strategy and to the graph below and on page 49. higher quality of our consumer national media franchises.
The price of our widely traded a We Will TaKe aDvaNTage of ordinary Non-voting shares started CapiTal sTRUCTURe oppoRTUNiTies To iNCRease the financial year at 6.30, having fallen The Company has not made a capital call MaRKeT shaRe, To laUNCh NeW pRoDUCTs aND To leveRage rapidly since the summer of 2007. it fell on its shareholders for 75 years.
Capital The sTReNgThs of The gRoUps below 5 on the announcement of our growth is funded by long-term debt and DiveRse poRTfolio.
2006 7 results in November 2007 by retained earnings.
since the late on fears about the health of the UK 1980s, our strategy has been to raise the economy.
at this point, our perception dividend in real terms.
since 2002, the of the value of the group, based on Boards policy has been to seek to our forecasts, compared to that of the increase the dividend each year by 5% to market, led us to purchase our own 7% in real terms, as long as it continues shares at an average price of 4.75. in to have confidence in the groups hindsight, we were too early as the share long-term prospects and financial health.
This year the Board increased the price continued to fall as investors shied dividend by 2.4%, considering it prudent away from exposure to consumer in the current circumstances to hold the advertising and to the financial and final dividend at last years level, but it is property sectors.
maintaining its policy of increasing the dividend in real terms over the cycle.
as over the last year, there has been shown below, the compound dividend unprecedented stock lending of DMgTs growth over the last 20 years is 11% in shares, along with other cyclical media nominal terms, which is an increase of companies, which rose from its normal 7% in real terms.
level of below 5% to 16% in the year.
Compound dividend growth DMGT DIVIDEND HISTORY FOR THE PERIOD 1988 2008 PENCE iNflaTioN iNDiCaToR 1988 2008 11% 16 Compound dividend growth over 14 the last 20 years.
com 2008 18 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued office and an audit of energy and water The Company spent 74 million on CO EFFICIENCY 2 EMISSIONS PER REVENUE consumption at its eight UK print plants buying its a ordinary shares and a CO M REVENUE 2 which are responsible for a significant further 14 million in matching 53 52 proportion of DMgTs consumption.
obligations to provide shares to minority 51 This is currently in progress.
a main shareholders of RMs who had acquired aim of the audit is to identify potential them as a result of exercising their opportunities for saving energy, thereby stock options under its scheme.
reducing the groups environmental purchases were opportunistic, rather impact.
Meanwhile, harmsworth than part of a buy back programme.
printing has been making strides to cut since february, no further purchases water use, following an earlier study.
have been made and none are planned in the foreseeable future as the group DMgT and our employees concentrates on reducing its debt.
06 07 08 Retention of staff benefits from our The gRoUps eNeRgY effiCieNCY autonomous divisional culture and from RelaTioNships WiTh has iMpRoveD DUe To The iNTRoDUCTioN of a NeW our provision of the appropriate form of sTaKeholDeRs, oTheR ThaN pRoDUCTioN faCiliTY aT DiDCoT.
pension provision to all our employees.
shaReholDeRs DMgT has kept open its final salary environmental, employee, social and pension schemes in the UK newspaper community issues are taken seriously divisions where people tend to stay by the Company, as set out in the with us for a long time and where the Corporate Responsibility Report on average age is higher.
DMgT also has a divisions, which are more international dedicated Corporate Responsibility and where employees are generally section on its website which is updated younger, we believe defined contribution regularly.
The Board has policies in pension plans are more appropriate.
place on the environment and on equal opportunities for employees, as well as The number of employees has risen on whistleblowing and health and safety.
from 17,296 at the beginning of the year all of these policies are established and to 17,524 at the end, an increase of 1%.
set out on the DMgT extranet.
The number of employees within Northcliffes UK operations fell by a DMgT and the environment DMGT employees further 209 4% as a consequence of We recognise that our businesses have its reorganisation programme.
an impact on the environment through 1% our printing operations, offices, in 2008 the number of DMgT social and community issues transport and other activities.
Whilst the group does not have formal committed to ensuring that, where policies in this area, community practicable, any adverse impact on the involvement is integral to our business environment from our activities will be as well as to the personal motivation of minimised.
The major environmental our employees.
We donate money, time impacts arise in our printing operations and in-kind donations such as radio where we focus on energy efficiency.
airtime and Teletext pages, and staff We have gathered data over recent actively give time to areas including years in order to monitor the groups fundraising and trusteeships.
Whilst there has been an increase in the overall amount of energy information about persons with whom used during the year, the groups energy the company has contractual or other efficiency has improved due to the arrangements essential to the introduction of a new production facility companys business at Didcot.
group companies undertake business CoMMUNiTY iNvolveMeNT is with a range of customers and another area we focus on is our Carbon iNTegRal To oUR BUsiNess.
There is no dependence on footprint.
We started to measure this any particular contractual arrangement, from 2006 and the graph shown to the left illustrates that the groups other than those disclosed in the full emissions have fallen.
We recently annual Report and accounts as regards embarked on a new energy ink and printing, where arrangements management and abatement are in place until 2015 and 2022 programme, commissioning specialist respectively to obtain competitive consultants to conduct an energy prices and to secure supply.
efficiency exercise at DMgTs head Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | Chief exeCUTives RevieW Continued 19 for DMg World Media, the economic as regards the groups principal our focus is on managing the group climate will have an impact on the rate commodity, newsprint, arrangements through the current difficult trading of growth for certain exhibitions.
There are made annually with a range of conditions, based on an assumption are continuing growth prospects in suppliers to ensure the security of of no improvement during 2009. at the others with particular strength in the supply at the best available prices, same time, we will take advantage of Middle east and in oil and gas events.
having regard to the need for the opportunities to increase market share, generally, we are seeing strength in necessary quality.
particularly in to launch new products and to leverage market leading shows, and we are the light of its strategy to create a the strengths of the groups diverse fortunate that most of our larger diversified international portfolio of portfolio.
DMgTs long-term strategy shows are in that position.
media businesses, the group is not remains in place and we are confident dependent on any suppliers of other that the group will emerge well from our B2B divisions will benefit from the commodities, nor for its revenue on the current economic downturn.
strengthening Us dollar with each five any particular customer.
Distribution cent rise in the average :$ exchange arrangements are in place to ensure the Martin Morgan rate estimated to improve full year delivery of newspapers to retail outlets.
Chief Executive profits by approximately 4 million.
TReNDs aND faCToRs liKelY To affeCT The oUTlooK Within associated Newspapers, october The new financial year has started with has seen total advertising revenues, very challenging economic conditions, including display, down by 10%, but it is particularly in the UK.
our business to difficult to predict trading performance business divisions are generally for the rest of the first quarter, with even continuing to trade well, with the benefit less visibility thereafter.
a plan has been of significant subscription revenues, but implemented to improve revenues and to our UK consumer media businesses are reduce costs within associated, including being affected.
as a consequence, we a saturday cover price increase for the are taking decisive action to defend their Daily Mail and the combining of some profitability and, more generally, to functions within the Mail titles.
focus on cash generation and debt at Northcliffe Media, UK advertising reduction.
Measures across the group trends have deteriorated further since are worth in the region of 100 million the year end, particularly in the property and will offset downward pressure on and recruitment sectors, with october advertising and upward pressure on revenues down on the prior year by 28%.
property revenues were 52% below the prior year and recruitment revenues for DMg information, whilst much were down 37%.
The gloomy economic uncertainty remains in its markets, outlook points to extremely challenging its businesses are well positioned to conditions for our key advertising deliver strong growth both in an upturn markets throughout the coming year.
and through the medium term.
DMgis as well as the implementation of the companies have robust business new regional operating structure, we models and the range of new product have reviewed all areas of expenditure developments underway underpins their and are in the process of removing growth opportunities.
significant costs from Northcliffe during the coming year.
euromoneys current trading is in line with its expectations, but in such volatile in addition to the divisional cost cutting markets it is difficult to predict how well measures within associated and sales will hold up beyond the first Northcliffe, we have also established quarter.
octobers revenues were ahead a&N Media, a structure to share of last year and forward revenues for services across both divisions and to the first quarter also are ahead of the improve operational efficiency.
same time last year, but sales for the past eight weeks have shown signs of at DMg Radio australia, we expect weakening.
Nearly 40% of its revenues Nova further to improve its reach into come from subscriptions which continue its target demographic of all listeners to grow and will provide euromoney with aged 18-39 and we look for continued substantial stability.
com 2008 20 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | DMgT aT a glaNCe DMgT is a long established, successful media group.
We have international business DMgT aT to business interests in business and financial information and in exhibitions.
our consumer media operations comprise UK national newspapers and related a glaNCe digital activities, local media and radio.
our purpose is to enrich lives through media brands that inspire, inform and entertain.
DivisioNal pRiNCipal eMploYees aCTiviTies BRaNDs aT YeaR eND Risk Management Trepp DMg Solutions RMS Lewtan Technologies iNfoRMaTioN Environmental Data Sanborn 3,736 Resources EDR Genscape Landmark Hobsons Information Group Property Portfolio & Research page 23 eURoMoNeY Euromoney Petroleum Economist iNsTiTUTioNal Institutional Investor ISI Emerging Markets Euroweek BCA Research iNvesToR 2,207 Asiamoney Metal Bulletin Latin Finance IMN Total Derivatives International Financial Law Review page 25 DMg WoRlD New York Gastech Thailand MeDia International Gift Fair 2008, Abu Dhabi Index and Big 5 2009 792 Dubai ad:tech U. S. Europe, Global Petroleum Australasia Show Canada Chemspec Europe Surf Expo U. S. Germany 2008, Evantas CIO Spain 2009 Executive Summits ADIPEC Abu Dhabi, page 27 U. S. U. K. Australia 2009 a&N MeDia: The Daily Mail Teletext assoCiaTeD The Mail on Sunday This is Travel NeWspapeRs Mail Online Teletextholidays.
co. uk 4,648 TravelMail Jobsite This is Money Find a Property Evening Standard Primelocation This is London Motors.
co. uk Metro Loopylove London Lite page 28 Loot a&N MeDia: Evening Post Bristol this is NoRThCliffe Derby Evening jobsite.
co. uk MeDia Telegraph findaproperty.
co. uk Hull Daily Mail Kisalfold Gyor, Leicester Mercury Hungary Nottingham Evening Pravda Bratislava, Post Slovakia West Briton page 32 Cornwall Nova 969 Sydney Vega 915 Melbourne DMg RaDio Nova 100 Melbourne Five AA Adelaide aUsTRalia Nova 1069 Brisbane Brisbane 97.3 Joint 576 Nova 919 Adelaide venture Nova 937 Perth Star 1045 Central Joint venture Coast Vega 953 Sydney page 35 D Da ai il ly M y Ma aiil a l an nd d G ge en ne er ra al T l Trru us st p t pll c c A an n n n u u aa l R l R ee vv ie ie w 2 w 2 00 00 88 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | DMgT aT a glaNCe Continued 21 oveRvieW peRCeNTage heaD offiCe of ReveNUe DMG Information is the Groups business information division, providing Stamford Landing From 1st October, business-to-business information to the property, insurance, financial, Suite 400 2008, RMS has been energy, geo-spatial and educational recruitment markets.
46 Southfield Avenue established as a 14% Stamford, Connecticut separate division.
The US accounts for the majority of revenues with the UK, Japan, India CT 06902, USA Its head office is at: and Australia representing the other significant geographic markets.
Tel 001 203 973 2940 7015 Gateway 315m Boulevard, Newark, CA 94560, USA Tel 001 510 505 2500 Euromoney is a leading international business-to-business media group Nestor House focused primarily on the international finance, metals and commodities Playhouse Yard sectors.
It publishes more than 70 magazines, newsletters and journals, London EC4V 5EX 14% including Euromoney, Institutional Investor and Metal Bulletin.
It also England runs an extensive portfolio of conferences, seminars and training Tel 020 7779 8888 courses and is a leading provider of electronic information and data covering international finance, metals and commodities, and emerging 332m markets.
Its main offices are in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong and nearly half of its revenues are derived from emerging markets.
DMG World Media is a leading international exhibition company that Suite 255 produces nearly 200 market-leading trade exhibitions, consumer 1100 Larkspur shows and fairs.
The company also publishes 25 related magazines Landing Circle 9% and directories.
Larkspur CA 94939, USA DMG World Medias operation includes more than 20 offices across the Tel 001 415 464 8500 US, Canada, the UK, France, the United Arab Emirates, China, Singapore, 202m Australia and New Zealand and additional exhibitions in countries such as Germany, Spain, Egypt, Morocco, India, Indonesia, Korea, Thailand, Mexico, and Venezuela.
Associated Newspapers is a major national newspaper publisher which Northcliffe House is also responsible for running its newspaper companion digital sites, 2 Derry Street Associated Northcliffe Digital and Teletext.
Its subsidiary Harmsworth London W8 5TT 43% Printing provides printing services to the DMGT Group.
England Tel 020 7938 6000 Associated Northcliffe Digital reaches an estimated 24% of all UK internet users in the jobs, property, motors and dating markets.
988m Teletext provides text information services on the main commercial television channels ITV, C4 and C5, as well as on mobile telephones.
It also operates travel web sites, including a holiday retail operation.
Northcliffe Media is one of the largest local media organisations in Northcliffe House the UK.
Northcliffe publishes over 100 local newspapers including 2 Derry Street 17 paid-for daily titles, two free daily titles, 39 paid-for weeklies and London W8 5TT 18% over 60 free weekly newspapers.
The unduplicated readership of England Northcliffes newspapers is seven million.
Furthermore, Northcliffes Tel 020 7400 1401 network of 150 local this is websites attracted over 3.3 million unique users with 46.3 million page impressions in September 2008.
Other 420m commercial activities include international print and digital publishing interests in Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia.
DMG Radio Australia holds 10 radio licences, including the national Nova Level 5 FM network of stations in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and 75 Hindmarsh Square Perth and the Vega FM stations in Sydney and Melbourne.
Adelaide SA 5000 2% Australia Nova continues to be the leading national radio network for listeners Tel 00 618 8419 5000 aged 18-39, while Vega is steadily growing its share of the 40-54 demographic, a complementary audience profile to Nova.
com 2008 22 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | MaNageMeNT sTRUCTURe MaNageMeNT sTRUCTURe DMGT 1 2 3 A&N MEDIA: KEVIN BEATTY CHIEF ExECUTIVE 4 RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATED DMG INFORMATION EUROMONEY DMG WORLD MEDIA NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA DMG RADIO AUSTRALIA SOLUTIONS NEWSPAPERS 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 1 LORD ROTHERMERE ChaiRMaN, DMgT 2 MARTIN MORGAN Chief exeCUTive, DMgT 3 PETER WILLIAMS fiNaNCe DiReCToR, DMgT 4 KEVIN BEATTY Chief exeCUTive, a&N MeDia 5 DAVID DUTTON ChaiRMaN, DMg iNfoRMaTioN 6 MARTIN MORGAN ChaiRMaN, RisK MaNageMeNT solUTioNs 7 PADRAIC FALLON ChaiRMaN, eURoMoNeY 8 MARTIN MORGAN ChaiRMaN, DMg WoRlD MeDia 9 LORD ROTHERMERE ChaiRMaN, a&N MeDia: assoCiaTeD NeWspapeRs aND NoRThCliffe MeDia 10 PETER WILLIAMS ChaiRMaN, DMg RaDio aUsTRalia 11 SURESH KAVAN Chief exeCUTive, DMg iNfoRMaTioN 12 HEMANT SHAH Chief exeCUTive, RisK MaNageMeNT solUTioNs 13 RICHARD ENSOR MaNagiNg DiReCToR, eURoMoNeY 14 MIKE COOKE Chief exeCUTive, DMg WoRlD MeDia 15 KEVIN BEATTY MaNagiNg DiReCToR, assoCiaTeD NeWspapeRs 16 PAUL DACRE eDiToR iN Chief, assoCiaTeD NeWspapeRs 17 MICHAEL PELOSI MaNagiNg DiReCToR, NoRThCliffe MeDia 18 CATHY OCONNOR Chief exeCUTive, DMg RaDio aUsTRalia Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | BUsiNess To BUsiNess: DMg iNfoRMaTioN 23 DMg iNfoRMaTioN DAVID DUTTON CHAIRMAN KeY DevelopMeNTs SURESH KAVAN fURTheR gRoWTh fRoM DMgis sTRoNg CHIEF EXECUTIVE BUsiNess MoDels ResilieNCe iN UNCeRTaiN MaRKeT CoNDiTioNs CoNTiNUeD expaNsioN BY RMs KeY figURes Despite a year of turbulent property pRopeRTY and financial markets, DMgi was able operating profit from the property Revenue to increase operating profits by 6%.
companies declined by 22% to 23 This reflected the crucial nature of the million, with revenues being 13% lower information provided in our chosen at 92 million.
315m niche markets and continuing 2007: 293m investment in new products and in the UK, the volume of housing Operating profit services to meet the changing needs transactions plunged to record low of our clients.
on a like-for-like basis, levels during the year.
Whilst the underlying revenue increased by 5%.
market leading position of landmark 75m information group was at least 2007: 71m iNsURaNCe aND fiNaNCial maintained, this lack of activity in the operating profit from DMgis insurance marketplace had an adverse impact Operating margin and financial companies rose by 18% on revenues.
landmark has continued to 41 million on revenues up 19% to to invest in product enhancements 24% 131 million.
and extensions and is well positioned 2007: 24% for a recovery.
Risk Management solutions, which represents more than half of this Commercial property transaction division, continued its impressive volumes also reduced significantly growth record.
as the worlds leading in both the Us and UK, affecting provider of solutions to assist the environmental Data Resources eDR insurance sector in quantifying and and landmark respectively.
Both eDR managing catastrophe and other risks, and landmark continue to be innovative, RMs grew revenues by 19% and, whilst expanding their product offerings and pursuing an aggressive strategy to the markets they serve.
eDR grew its expand its product range and subscription sales strongly and geographic coverage, also grew successfully increased penetration of operating profits by 17%.
sales to commercial property lenders.
landmark acquired inframation, a Notwithstanding a virtual cessation property information business based of new issuance of asset-backed in germany.
securities, the importance of the surveillance and monitoring products property & portfolio Research enjoyed offered by Trepp, serving the commercial a good year, expanding the geographic mortgage-backed securities market, reach of their property research and and lewtan, providing services to both growing revenues by 23%.
adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation issuers and investors in asset-backed and impairment of tangible assets.
securities, has been evident with both Underlying revenue or profit is companies increasing revenues and revenue or profit on a like-for-like operating profits, in Trepps case, by basis, adjusted for acquisitions and more than 20%.
disposals made in the current and prior year and at constant exchange rates.
percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
com 2008 24 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | BUsiNess To BUsiNess: DMg iNfoRMaTioN Continued TiTle of page DMg iNfoRMaTioN continued oTheR preparation, recruitment, management GROWTH IN NUMBER OF RMS EARTHqUAKE MODELS YEARS operating profit from DMgis other and advancement of students.
business information companies rose 25 by 38% to 15 million on revenues that sanborn enjoyed a good year with were 18% higher at 92 million.
strong revenue and profit growth.
18 genscape, a leading provider of in March, DMgi disposed of Dolphin real-time information to the energy software at an attractive valuation.
13 trading markets, continued to grow strongly with revenues increasing by oUTlooK more than 20% and margins improving.
The past year has demonstrated the resilience of DMgi in uncertain and hobsons education information turbulent market conditions.
Whilst business grew underlying revenues much uncertainty remains in their niche 94 99 00 04 05 08 by 16%.
it completed further bolt-on markets, all the DMgi companies are Years acquisitions, with College Confidential well positioned to deliver strong growth being added in the Us and the minority both during any upturn and through the in NaRiC acquired in the UK.
its successful disposal of the graduate recruitment information business in the DMgis business models are strong summer, hobsons is pursuing an and the level of investment in product aggressive growth strategy solely development and the number of growth focused on providing products to opportunities remain encouraging.
education professionals in the DMG INFORMATION REVENUE M 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Excluding Study Group sold 2006 Operating profit DMG INFORMATION OPERATING PROFIT M 80 70 18% operating profit from DMgis 60 insurance and financial companies rose by 18%.
50 40 30 20 10 0 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | BUsiNess To BUsiNess: eURoMoNeY iNsTiTUTioN Tia Tl i le o Nvf p esa To gR e 25 eURoMoNeY iNsTiTUTioNal iNvesToR PADRAIC FALLON CHAIRMAN KeY DevelopMeNTs RICHARD ENSOR ResilieNT peRfoRMaNCe DUe To sUCCessfUl MANAGING DIRECTOR sUBsCRipTioN DRiveN DiveRsifiCaTioN sTRaTegY fURTheR gRoWTh fRoM eMeRgiNg MaRKeTs CoNTiNUeD sTReNgTh iN seCToRs oUTsiDe fiNaNCe euromoney had another record year and and hedge funds.
in contrast, those KeY figURes increased its operating profit by 12%.
titles with a strong emerging markets Revenue This operating performance is stated exposure held up well: Euromoney, for after deducting a charge for its example, had its best september issue management incentive scheme, the ever and increased its advertising 332m Cap, 5 million lower than last year, revenues for the year by 7%.
investment 2007: 305m without which the increase was 4%.
in new electronic products targeted at niche financial sectors continued, and Operating profit Throughout 2008 the business many financial titles have now moved demonstrated its resilience in the face successfully from a print-first to a 76m of problems in global credit markets, a web-first publishing model.
2007: 68m gloomier economic outlook, and more recently the major impact of the credit BUsiNess pUBlishiNg Operating margin crisis on the worlds leading financial The metals and commodities, energy, institutions.
legal and telecoms sectors all continued to perform well, helped by strong 23% The diversity of euromoneys revenue commodity markets and high levels of 2007: 22% streams, geographic markets, product investment in infrastructure, particularly offerings and customers helped sustain in emerging markets.
Revenues its trading through this difficult period.
increased by 16% to 53 million with subscription revenues increased by 18% growth from both advertising and and the proportion of revenues derived subscription products.
Metal Bulletins from subscription products increased revenues continued to benefit from the from 34% to 37%.
growth from emerging increased investment in marketing and markets continued to compensate for technology since its acquisition, while weakness in the developed financial TelCap, which publishes Capacity markets, and emerging markets now magazine for the wholesale telecoms account for nearly 50% of total revenues.
market, achieved strong growth through the launch of new products.
euromoneys strengths in sectors outside finance, particularly metals, CoNfeReNCes aND seMiNaRs commodities and energy, led to a Revenues increased by 8% to 88 16% increase in revenues from million, although operating margin business publishing activities, which fell, largely due to the impact of the helped offset the weakness in some credit crisis on events in the structured financial sectors.
finance sector, particularly securitisation, and cuts by global fiNaNCial pUBlishiNg financial institutions in their spend on capital markets conferences.
in Revenues, which comprise a mix of contrast, events in areas outside finance advertising and subscriptions, were performed well, particularly those unchanged at 84 million.
They fell for covering the coal and alternative energy those titles more reliant on revenues adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation markets under the Coaltrans brand, and from global financial institutions, or on and impairment of tangible assets.
the metals and commodities markets sectors particularly exposed to the percentages are calculated on actual under Metal Bulletin.
credit crisis such as structured finance numbers to one decimal place.
com 2008 26 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | BUsiNess To BUsiNess: eURoMoNeY iNsTiTUTioNal iNvesToR Continued TiTle of page eURoMoNeY iNsTiTUTioNal iNvesToR continued TRaiNiNg operating margin fell as a result Emerging markets Revenues increased by 10% to 41 of isis continued investment in new million.
They are heavily dependent on products, most notably the expansion 50% the headcount and training and travel of the CeiC emerging market economic Nearly 50% of revenues are derived budgets of financial institutions, and to data business into new regions.
date have held up well despite the cost pressures triggered by the problems in oUTlooK Subscription revenue the credit markets.
This has been There have been some recent signs of achieved through a mix of investment in weakening in the face of the extreme new course content, effective marketing credit market conditions and continued 40% and an ability to roll out successful uncertainty over the economic outlook.
Nearly 40% of revenues come from courses quickly to emerging markets.
visibility beyond the first quarter is subscriptions.
limited, as usual, and revenues will DaTaBases aND iNfoRMaTioN come under increasing pressure from seRviCes the second quarter.
The outlook for Revenues increased by 28% to 66 trading is inevitably uncertain in these million.
BCa continued to achieve strong markets, but euromoney is better revenue growth on the back of its positioned than ever to meet the expansion into new geographic markets challenges of this difficult environment.
and increases in sales resource.
isi increased its local currency subscription revenues by 21%.
EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR REVENUE M 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR OPERATING PROFIT M 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | BUsiNess To BUsiNess: DMg T W iT ol Re o lDf p Mea D g ia e 27 DMg WoRlD MeDia MARTIN MORGAN CHAIRMAN KeY DevelopMeNTs MIKE COOKE sTRoNg peRfoRMaNCe fRoM B2B DivisioN, DRiveN CHIEF EXECUTIVE BY oil aND gas aND TeChNologY shoWs glM iNTegRaTeD sUCCessfUllY afTeR aCQUiRiNg ReMaiNiNg 51% iNTeResT ReDUCeD B2C pReseNCe ThRoUgh sale of NoRTh aMeRiCaN hoMe shoWs DMg World Media had a good year with BUsiNess To CoNsUMeR B2C KeY figURes revenues up 23%, profits up 40% and B2C is now a small part of DMg World Revenue an increased operating margin.
it contributed 6% of DMg World like-for-like basis, underlying revenues Medias operating profit.
The North increased by 2% and operating profit by american home shows were sold in July.
an exceptional operating charge of overall, the B2C division, driven by a 2007: 164m 4 million was made for reorganisation decline in the UK consumer business, and restructuring costs.
the North american home shows and Operating profit certain art & antiques businesses now BUsiNess To BUsiNess B2B divested, performed poorly, with profits 38m Revenues and profits were up 18% and declining by 5 million.
in the Technology sector, a strong performance from oUTlooK Operating margin evantas existing executive summits and DMg World Media will continue its focus nine new launches contributed to the on the B2B and B2R divisions.
We expect sectors 20% profit growth.
profits from B2B to continue its good underlying 19% the oil and gas portfolio also increased growth, in both its Dubai and oil and gas 2007: 17% substantially.
This was driven by the sectors.
for B2R, we expect underlying Growth largest shows, the biennial global profit growth from the glM shows.
petroleum show and the now annual gastech, which increased by 35% and The economic climate will have an 30% 52%, respectively, from the previous impact on the rate of growth for certain profits from the business to shows.
The Dubai sector, comprising products, but DMg World Medias broad business sector are up by 30%.
construction, interior design and portfolio of products, with particular hospitality shows, reported a 15% strength in the Middle east and in oil increase in revenues, but a 1% decline and gas events, should help to mitigate in profits due to investment in people this risk.
BUsiNess To ReTail B2R The B2R division grew significantly in DMG WORLD MEDIA the year, following the acquisition of the OPERATING PROFIT M remaining interest in glM.
B2Rs 40 revenues more than doubled and profit 35 adjusted operating profit before grew 93%.
in the prior year, glM was 30 exceptional items and amortisation reported as an associate.
on a like-forand impairment of tangible assets.
25 like basis, glM grew its profits by 8% 20 Underlying revenue or profit is due to the strong performance of its revenue or profit on a like-for-like 15 premier product, the New York basis, adjusted for acquisitions and 10 disposals made in the current and international gift fair.
The B2R divisions prior year and at constant exchange 5 overall underlying revenues were down rates.
0 1% and profits down 8%, due to a 04 05 06 07 08 percentages are calculated on actual decline in its Us West Coast gift shows.
numbers to one decimal place.
com 2008 28 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | CoNsUMeR MeDia: a&N MeDia: assoCiaTeD NeWspapeRs a&N MeDia: associated Newspapers LORD ROTHERMERE CHAIRMAN KeY DevelopMeNTs KEVIN BEATTY PAUL DACRE ColoUR iNvesTMeNT pRogRaMMe CoMpleTeD MANAGING EDITORDIRECTOR IN-CHIEF CoNTiNUeD iNCRease iN MaRKeT shaRe foR Mail TiTles fURTheR iNvesTMeNT iN assoCiaTeD NoRThCliffe DigiTal KeY figURes Despite the challenging economic price increase in april.
Total advertising conditions in the second half of the revenue fell 1.5% year on year.
Revenue financial year and the continued competitive activity in the london The Mail on sunday once again evening newspaper market, associated increased its share of the sunday 988m Newspapers achieved a commendable market to a new high of 18.6%, up 0.4%.
Total revenues were flat year on The average circulation for the year at year, underlining the strength of its core 2,250,000 was 2.6% down year on year, Operating profit brands.
Display advertising revenues outperforming the overall market, grew slightly and circulation revenue which fell by 4.7%.
in January the 73m was maintained.
as expected, newspapers format was changed to 2007: 83m associateds profits were lower, due incorporate a new part two newspaper to the additional costs of full colour supplement, bringing together all the Operating margin printing, after the new Didcot plant lifestyle sections contained in the came on stream, and promotional previous format.
it has been well investment in the property and motors received by readers.
an exceptional magazine supplements, You and live, 2007: 8% operating charge of 19 million was jointly achieved the accolade of made for reorganisation, restructuring supplement of the year at the British and closure costs.
Total advertising revenue fell 4.8% year on year.
NeWspapeR opeRaTioNs Circulation revenue grew by 1% to 382 following years of circulation decline, million.
Both the Daily Mail and The Mail the average circulation of the evening on sundays circulation again performed standard for the year rose by 6% to ahead of the market.
The eros cashless loyalty card from a fall in the price of newsprint from scheme was rolled out throughout 1st January, were up by only 2% year on central london and delivered improving year.
print advertising was down 1.6%: sales performance as the year display advertising was up 1.1% but progressed.
co. uk enjoyed classified advertising was down 11.6%.
substantial growth in digital revenues.
Digital revenue from the newspaper advertising revenue was, however, 17% titles companion websites nearly behind last year in a fiercely contested trebled year on year.
a continuing focus on costs advertising category, retail, grew by ensured that further substantial cost 3.0% and all other categories were up, savings were made in the year.
except for travel down 9.4% and motors a ad djju us st te ed o d op pe er ra at tiin ng p g pr ro ofi fit t b be ef fo or re e down 1.6%.
The free newspaper division had a good e ex xc ce ep pt tiio on na al i l it te em ms a s an nd a d am mo or rt tiis sa at tiio on n year with the financial performance of a an nd i d im mp pa aiir rm me en nt o t of t f ta an ng giib bl le a e as ss se et ts s..
The Daily Mails average daily circulation all three titles improving.
Metro Underlying revenue or profit is for the year was 2,294,000 copies, which averaged 1,358,857 copies per issue, up revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions and was only 1.7% down year on year, in an 20% year on year, achieving a readership disposals made in the current and overall market which contracted by 2.5%.
Metro has the prior year and at constant exchange rates.
once again the Daily Mail increased its largest distribution and is the most market share to a new record of 20.1%, profitable free newspaper in the world.
despite a 5 pence Monday to friday cover london lite maintained its distribution Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | CoNsUMeR MeDia: a&N MeDia: assoCiaTeD NeWspapeRs Continued 29 ANALYSIS ANALYSIS OF OF REVENUE REVENUE M M o of a f ar ro ou un nd 4 d 40 00 0, 0 00 00 p 0 pe er i r is ss su ue e, r, re ea ac ch hiin ng g t th hiis p s pr ro od du uc ct d t fide ev five el lo op pm me en nt s t st tr ra at te eg gy y, 2008 2008 2007 2007 o on ne m e miil ll liio on r n re ea ad fide er rs s, w, wh hiic ch i h is n s no ow w w we i e in nv five es st te ed h d he ea av viil ly i y in b n bu uiil ld diin ng b g br ra an nd d CIRCULATION CIRCULATION 382 382 378 378 c co on ns siis st te en nt tl ly a y ah he ea ad o d of t f th he r e riiv va al f l fr re ee e a aw wa ar re en ne es ss s. T. Th hiis w s wiil ll c l co on nt tiin nu ue i e in t n th he e ADVERTISING ADVERTISING DISPLAY DISPLAY 354 354 350 350 n ne ew ws sp pa ap pe er i r in t n th he a e af ft te er rn no oo on d n fide es sp piit te t e th he e c co om miin ng y g ye ea ar a r an nd w d wiil ll b l be s e su up pp pl le em me en nt te ed d ADVERTISING CLASSIFIED 86 97 latter distributing 100,000 more copies.
by a multimedia advertising campaign at ADVERTISING DIGITAL 9 3 Metro and london lite delivered strong Jobsite, including a Tv commercial OTHER 16 12 advertising performances, achieving starring Max Beesley, in october 2008.
7Days OPERATIONS 847 840 in Dubai overcame the difficulties of last Revenue grew by 3% across aNDs jobs, DIGITAL 88 86 year and returned an improved profit.
property, motors and dating businesses, TELETEXT 41 40 an underlying increase of 12%.
CONTRACT PRINT 12 20 loot had a good year, turning last operating profit fell by 5 million as a REVENUE 988 986 years loss into a profit, despite result of promotional investment in the advertising revenue falling 18%.
property and motors digital companies.
editorial and commercial management JoBs ANALYSIS OF REVENUE % of the newspapers companion sites The recruitment division demonstrated CIRCULATION 38% was transferred back to the newspaper again its strong growth trajectory with ADVERTISING 36% Display divisions from aND.
as well as revenues up 17%, whilst maintaining its ADVERTISING 9% Classified increasing advertising revenues, margin of over 30%.
The growth comes investment in the titles companion despite a slowing market with some DIGITAL 1% websites resulted in a 33% increase sectors seeing declining vacancy levels OTHER 2% in traffic.
in accordance with the wider economy.
com was acquired in CONTRACT PRINT 1% harmsworth printing successfully December and has exceeded completed its press enhancement expectations.
The most recently built programme on schedule in January.
The final stage of the colour investment com, was launched by Jobsite in July.
programme culminated with the its portfolio of niche sites continues to commissioning of full colour capability deliver strong financial performance.
all associated Newspapers titles can now run with pRopeRTY full colour on every page.
further The Digital property group was created restructuring of the groups printing in May, with the primelocation.
com, operations resulted in the staverton site findaproperty.
being closed in february, after the co. uk and findanewhome.
com majority of the work had been brands now operating within a single transferred to other group owned management structure.
a consultation process provides estate agents and new home has been undertaken with the printing developers with exposure to a larger and staff at grimsby, which is likely to lead more differentiated audience.
to the closure of this plant.
Despite the current dire conditions in assoCiaTeD NoRThCliffe DigiTal the UK property market combined aNDs portfolio of premium websites revenues grew by 21% over the past had another good year.
The Digital property group now network now extends to over 150 sites, has over 11,000 estate agent branches reaching 24% of UK internet users, as customers and a leading presence making it one of the largest players in across london and the south east.
its the UK digital media industry.
aND monthly audience of 3.7 million users continued to acquire bolt-on valuemakes it the second largest portfolio of enhancing assets.
in conjunction with property sites in the UK.
com 2008 30 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | CoNsUMeR MeDia: a&N MeDia: assoCiaTeD NeWspapeRs Continued a&N MeDia: associated Newspapers continued MoToRs TeleTexT Continued investment in Motors.
co. uk in the face of further upheaval in the boosted audiences and dealer holiday market Teletexts major source acquisition, translating into revenue of advertising revenue - and the high growth of 35%.
it has become the costs of maintaining both a digital and third largest motors classified site analogue service, operating losses network in the UK only 20 months were reduced by 1 million to 3 million.
on digital television, Teletext remains the leading text service on freeview, The Digital automotive division also with its new extra service accessible to provides technology services to dealers around five million homes at the end of via its autoexposure and Complete the financial year.
Revenues from its automotive solutions subsidiaries.
These continue to grow market share and profits.
Teletexts online services have now JoBsiTe is aCCeleRaTiNg iTs BiD To BeCoMe The UKs BesT KNoWN moved into profit, and it extended its oNliNe ReCRUiTMeNT BRaND WiTh oTheR aReas of opeRaTioN ThisisTravel brand in april to become The laUNCh of a MUlTiMeDia BRaND aDveRTisiNg CaMpaigN.
aNDs dating business, allegran, is a retail operation selling holidays operating in an increasingly competitive directly to consumers through its own sector, which has led to higher customer branded website and its television acquisition costs, leading to lower than services.
villarenters, offering selfexpected levels of profitability.
The catering villa holiday accommodation business is currently reshaping its also performed well.
cost structure and business plan.
oUTlooK aNDs online-led generation business, The first month of the new year has Data Media & Research, has continued seen total advertising revenue down to grow revenues strongly as online on last year.
it is difficult to predict the businesses continue to seek cost trading performance for the rest of the effective alternatives to search first quarter of the new financial year, advertising, and this growth is expected with even less visibility thereafter.
to carry through into next year.
associated, although well positioned with its strong brands and extensive aNDs Utility switching business, simply portfolio, must implement even switch, was closed during the year.
stronger cost discipline in the difficult times ahead.
a strict profit preserving programme has been implemented which will not only help next years profits, but will leave associated better positioned when the economy finally improves.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | CoNsUMeR MeDia: a&N MeDia: assoCiaTeD NeWspapeRs Continued 31 ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS REVENUE M OPERATING PROFIT SPLIT M 1000 2008 2007 PRINT ACTIVITIES 88 92 DIGITAL ACTIVITIES 6 11 800 TELEVISION 3 4 UNALLOCATED COSTS 18 16 600 73 83 400 200 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 excluding television and before Northcliffes 2006 print and digital revenues Daily Mail market share A&N MEDIA - ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS CIRCULATION PERFORMANCE V MARKET TREND 1994 5 2007 8 DailY Mail 28.1% The Mail oN sUNDaY 13.8% 20% - oTheR sUNDaY NaTioNals 28.8% Daily Mail increased its market source: aBC october-september share above 20%.
com 2008 32 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | CoNsUMeR MeDia: a&N MeDia: NoRThCliffe MeDia a&N MeDia: Northcliffe Media LORD ROTHERMERE CHAIRMAN KeY DevelopMeNTs MICHAEL PELOSI KeY aDveRTisiNg CaTegoRies BaDlY affeCTeD BY The MANAGING DIRECTOR effeCTs of The WoRseNiNg eCoNoMiC CoNDiTioNs CoNTiNUeD gRoWTh iN DigiTal ReveNUes gRoWTh of 6% fRoM eURopeaN pUBlishiNg aCTiviTies KeY figURes UK regional advertising markets in second half of the year as businesses 2008 were exceptionally challenging reined back on recruitment plans.
in Revenue as the impact of the credit crunch september, recruitment advertising spread across the wider economy.
on a fell by 30% on a like-for-like basis.
like-for-like basis, underlying revenues 420m declined 11%, with the last quarter down Motors advertising fell by 12% in 2008.
on the other for many years, this sector has been in Operating profit hand, our european businesses decline in print due to online migration continued to grow, mainly fuelled by and structural changes in the industry further progress from their digital arising from consolidation amongst the 68m activities.
overall, Northcliffes operating major franchise holders and increasing 2007: 93m profit was down 30% on a like-for-like numbers of used car dealers going out basis at 64 million.
These factors were present Operating margin exceptional costs of 7 million were in 2008. in addition, new car sales posted incurred to restructure UK activities in significant reductions in the september response to contracting markets.
quarter due to fewer private buyers.
16% 2007: 21% UK other advertising categories fell by just The first signs of advertising weakness over 3%, mainly as a result of retail appeared towards the start of the declining by 8% in the second half of the financial year when growth suddenly year as consumer confidence declined.
stopped and then went into a gentle leisure revenues were down 4%.
The rate of decline then accelerated almost on a monthly basis.
on a more positive note, digital revenues grew on a like-for-like basis by 42% to in the property category, estate agents 17 million, representing 6% of all reduced their advertising budgets in advertising income.
During the year, early spring in the face of an ailing Northcliffe consolidated its relationships property market.
The cutbacks have with aNDs digital pure play businesses been so severe that in the month of Jobsite, findaproperty and Motors.
co. september, property advertising was uk.
This was evidenced through a only half of that achieved in the previous heavyweight and targeted marketing year.
such a decline came as no support programme which included surprise, given the reports that rebranding all print supplements to align mortgage approvals in late summer with the digital products: investment in were down by 70% on the previous year.
local and digital marketing: and renewed adjusted operating profit before in 2008, property advertising overall focus on digital only propositions by our exceptional items and amortisation was down 22%.
Underlying revenue or profit is Recruitment advertising declined by our alliance with Jobsite has resulted in revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions and 11% during the year.
This category Northcliffe becoming the online market disposals made in the current and performed reasonably well in the first leader for recruitment in most of its prior year and at constant exchange rates.
half, registering a decline of only 1%.
Considerable progress however, the growing uncertainty in the has also been made in online property percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
economy resulted in steeper falls in the advertising.
Many of our sites now carry Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | CoNsUMeR MeDia: a&N MeDia: NoRThCliffe MeD Tiia C Tle o on f p tinu ag ee d 33 a larger inventory of homes in their area helped improve performance.
for the VISIT than the main online competitor, January to June 2008 aBC period, our WWW.
Within the online motors weeklies were down 4.5% compared to market, we are gaining market share an industry decline of just over 5%.
from the market leader autotrader through motors.
co. uk in print and in contrast, our daily titles online.
indeed in some regions our underperformed the industry average trade inventory now exceeds our main in the January to June 2008 aBC period, competitors stock levels.
down just over 6% compared to an industry decline of 5%.
in part, this was The national and local sales teams due to the closure of the last remaining reported growth of 94% in digital display sports editions of certain titles.
Co. UK CURReNTlY revenues on the back of offering higher news is now carried online.
The decline aTTRaCTs oveR 225,000 UNiQUe volumes of inventory to a range of local in recruitment and property advertising visiToRs eveRY MoNTh looKiNg foR loCal NeWs, iNfoRMaTioN, and corporate advertisers.
also had an adverse impact on sale.
soURCe: iNTelliTRaCKeR sepT 2008 During the year, the this is network of During 2008, we changed the publishing local sites was re-launched on a new model of two of our publications.
This has improved The Bath Chronicle was successfully search engine optimisation and converted from a daily title, with an facilitated the launch of many new sites.
average sale of less than 12,000 copies, in total, our digital network now exceeds to a weekly title with a sale of 20,000 150 sites.
We continue to invest in media copies.
Recently, the free and paid for content generation and publishing titles in east grinstead were combined systems, both in terms of technology under the new east grinstead Courier and people as we move towards and observer masthead on a part free, becoming a truly multimedia publisher.
This activity, combined with growing in the Midlands, we developed a new user generated content and continued local free title under the Messenger marketing in our newspapers and brand.
This is targeted at attractive online, helped lift the number of visitors rural communities which advertisers across our entire digital network to over want to reach.
each edition is distributed 3.3 million in september, up 35% on the to less than 10,000 homes.
encouragingly, the time editions were launched in 2008.
More are spent on sites and the frequency of use planned during 2009. all are profitable.
CeNTRal eURope Newspaper circulation revenues fell Northcliffes portfolio of print and digital on a like-for-like basis by 3% to 73 business in Central europe performed The leiCesTeR MeRCURY is ReaD BY oveR 200,000 people eveRY DaY.
some cover price increases well, delivering local currency profit soURCe: JiCReg JaN JUNe 2008 were taken during the year but, for growth of 6%.
in sterling terms, its others, price increases were delayed operating profit rose 15% to 8 million to minimise any adverse impact on sale.
with revenues up 20% to 43 million.
on a like-for-like basis, the underlying last year, we reported concern about revenue increase was 5%.
The growth the sales trend of larger weekly titles.
came from the digital activities in the They underperformed the industry business.
average by 1.9% for the January to June 2007 aBC period.
Thus, we stepped up in hungary, profits from our two investment.
The introduction of local regional newspapers, Kisalfld and promotions, improved marketing and Dlmagyarorszg, grew by 6%.
brand promotion, combined with an however, our portfolio of classified enlivened merchandising activity, publications recorded profits only in line www.
com 2008 34 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | CoNsUMeR MeDia: a&N MeDia: NoRThCliffe MeDia Continued TiTle of page a&N MeDia: Northcliffe Media continued NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA TOTAL UNDUPLICATED READERSHIP REACH REGIONAL COVERAGE ENGLAND AND WALES REVENUE ANALYSIS M 2008 2008 2007 7.0m ADVERTISING 277 301 2007 CIRCULATION 86 88 7.3m OTHER 25 24 2006 388 413 6.2m ACqUISITIONS 32 7 DISPOSALS 0 27 Source: JICREG IMS 2008 420 447 THIS IS VISITORS 000S PER MONTH FY 2009 FY 2008 FY 2007 3500 3000 2500 2000 1500 1000 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May JunJul Aug Sep FOR THE JANUARY TO JUNE 2008 ABC PERIOD, OUR UNDUPLICATED READERSHIP WAS DOWN JUST OVER 4% YEAR ON YEAR.
OUR THIS IS NETWORK OF WEBSITES CONTINUES TO GROW ITS REACH.
IN SEPTEMBER THE NUMBER OF VISITORS WAS OVER 3.3 MILLION, AN INCREASE OF 35% YEAR ON YEAR.
2008 REVENUE ANALYSIS % with last year as readers continued the New press capacity in hungary is now ADVERTISING 71% migration to online.
on stream and will provide the CIRCULATION 22% opportunity to introduce more colour to OTHER 7% profits from our slovakian activities our titles.
We will also seek to expand declined by 7%.
profesia, the market our third party customer base for leading slovakian recruitment website, contract printing.
Revenues were up by 29%, most of which was oUTlooK reinvested in the expansion of its digital UK advertising revenue trends network in the Czech Republic and deteriorated further in october 2008, hungary.
The national daily, pravda, down 28%.
The gloomy economic recorded profits below last year due to outlook points to extremely challenging increased staff costs.
avzo, a classified conditions for our key advertising print publication, also fell behind 2007 markets in the coming year.
a new due to lower revenues.
regional operating structure has been implemented which should allow us to in Croatia, the market leading benefit from our scale in the south West recruitment website, Mojposao, which and in the Midlands and North.
We have was acquired in March 2007, continued reviewed all areas of expenditure and to exceed expectations.
are in the process of removing significant costs.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 s s sU U UMM MM MMa a aR R RY Y Y BU BU BUsi si siN N Ne e es s ss s s R R Re e ev v vie ie ieW | C W W | | C Co o oN N Ns s sUM UM UMe e eR R R M M Me e eD D Di i ia a a: : : DM DM DMg g g R R Ra a aD D DTi i i io a o a o a Tle o U U Us s sTR TR TR f pa a a ali li li ga a a e 35 35 35 DMg R R Ra a aD D Dio io io aUsTR TR TRa a ali li lia a a P P PE E ET T TE E ER W R W R WI I IL L LL L LI I IA A AM M MS S S C C CHAI HAI HAIR R RMAN MAN MAN KeY fide ev five elo lop pM Me eNT NTs s CATHY OCONNOR sTRoNg gRoWTh of Nova NeTWoRK CHIEF EXECUTIVE ReTURN To pRofiTaBiliTY DevelopMeNT of MUlTiMeDia CapaBiliTY DMgRa returned to profitability this oTheR DevelopMeNTs KeY figURes year, driven by underlying revenue from an online perspective, Nova station Revenue growth of 24%, at constant exchange websites have grown traffic by 27% year rates, against market growth of 6% on year, with a 25% increase in audio nationally.
streams and 66% increase in podcasts 55m downloaded from the Nova sites.
This 2007: 40m NeTWoRK peRfoRMaNCe growing online presence is also enabling The improvement in performance was the generation of new national revenues Operating profit driven by a year of strong growth for the for the group with 80% of major national Nova network which recorded campaigns now containing an online 2m an increase in operating profit of 61% component.
in addition, developments 2007: -4m on the prior year.
such as the Nova networks mobile phone applications have enabled the Operating margin Despite continued weakness in the network to respond to the changing sydney advertising market, the Nova habits of its listeners and advertisers.
network achieved revenue growth of 4% 22%, driven largely by an increase in oUTlooK 2007: -9% its share of national revenue.
By continuing to focus on its core Nova Network No.
1 metropolitan brands, DMgRa expects While the Nova network was again the Nova further to improve its reach into number one national network in its the 18-39 market and to see continued No.
1 target demographic of all listeners aged growth for vega.
in the first survey of Nova Network was again the 18-39, Nova Brisbane continued its the new financial year, Nova increased number one national network in its target demographic.
leadership of the Brisbane market its audience share in all key Under 40 achieving the number one overall demographics in every market.
position in every survey across the year.
DMgRa continues to build on its The vega fM stations in sydney and multimedia capability, including online Melbourne reduced their losses, but and mobile, and is well advanced in its by less than had been expected.
They planning for the launch of Digital Radio continued to grow their target audience in May 2009. of 40-54 year olds, with vega sydney achieving the leading position in this DMG RADIO AUSTRALIA METROPOLITAN REVENUE M demographic in survey 5, 2008 for the first time.
The stations also improved 60 their overall ratings position relative to 50 adjusted operating profit before their main competitors.
exceptional items and amortisation 40 and impairment of tangible assets.
30 5aa, the speech radio station in Underlying revenue or profit is adelaide, had another excellent year, 20 revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions and increasing profits and retaining the 10 disposals made in the current and number one overall position throughout prior year and at constant exchange 0 rates.
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
com 2008 36 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | fiNaNCial RevieW TiTle of page fiNaNCial The pURpose of This RevieW is RevieW To oUTliNe KeY aspeCTs of The gRoUps peRfoRMaNCe oveR The lasT YeaR aND of iTs fiNaNCial posiTioN.
KeY figURes aCCoUNTs the impact of acquisitions and disposals, last year the vast majority of our growth was also 3%.
Revenue shareholders opted out of receiving communications in hard copy form.
Now that nearly half of our revenue is Therefore, our main communication this generated from outside the groups print 3% year is through an online web 2.0 annual newspaper titles, we have changed the Report.
We are still required to produce order of our segments to show our Operating profit a printed version.
The main change this business to business divisions before year is from the adoption of ifRs 7 those in consumer media.
The analysis of -2% financial instruments: Disclosures, revenue by activity, illustrated in graph 1, which has increased the length of the shows that the percentage of revenue Earnings per share report to 164 pages.
We have also from consumer media has fallen to 63% produced a separate annual Review from 73% in 2004. graph 2 shows the again, incorporating a summary set of geographic split of revenue.
This shows -3% financial statements as an alternative that 70% of revenue by source was for those shareholders who have chosen generated by UK businesses, compared to receive it.
with 79% in 2004, but we estimate that approximately 45% of overall group This financial Review focuses on the income is derived from revenue invoiced adjusted results to give a more in Us dollars.
comparable indication of the groups underlying business performance.
a opeRaTiNg pRofiT discussion of other items included in The groups operating profit amounted the statutory results is given after to 317 million, a decrease of 2% on the the divisional performance review.
The equivalent figure for last year.
This figure adjusted results are summarised below: is stated before charging 32 million as exceptional operating costs.
This charge comprised reorganisation, restructuring 2008 2007 Adjusted results m m Change and closure costs within associated, Northcliffe and DMg World Media.
Revenue 2,312 2,235 3% Operating profit 317 322 -2% The charge for amortisation of intangible Income from assets rose by 8 million to 90 million.
joint ventures The group also made an impairment and associates 6 charge of 168 million, principally relating Net finance to more recently acquired regional media costs 55 41 -36% assets and to a number of consumer and Discontinued gift shows.
The charge also included a activities 1 write down of 14 million of the groups Profit before tax 262 288 -9% original investment in glM, arising purely Tax charge 63 76 17% from the groups ifRs transition election Minority interest 18 20 9% on 4th october, 2004 and matched by an equal and opposite credit to reserves.
Group profit 181 192 -6% Adjusted The analysis of operating profit by activity earnings is shown in graph 3.
This shows that the per share 47.9p 49.3p -3% adjusted operating profit before percentage of profit from business to exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of tangible assets.
business has risen from 33% in 2004 to ReveNUe 60% this year.
The groups revenue in the year of Underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit on a like-for-like 2,312 million was 3% higher than the basis, adjusted for acquisitions and all of the groups B2B divisions increased previous year.
There was revenue disposals made in the current and prior year and at constant exchange their profits, by 24 million in total, growth from all of our divisions, other rates.
despite economic conditions affecting than Northcliffe.
We estimate that percentages are calculated on actual DMg informations property businesses underlying revenue growth, excluding numbers to one decimal place.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | fiNaNCial Revie TW iT C le o on f p tinu ag ee d 37 and DMg World Medias remaining NeT fiNaNCiNg CosTs Revenue invoiced in US dollars consumer exhibitions.
The largest 2008 2007 Movement increase was at DMg World Media, m m % 45% due to the full acquisition of glM, but Net interest of overall group income is on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for payable and derived from revenue invoiced acquisitions and disposals made in the similar charges 75 70 -9% in Us dollars.
year, its operating profit rose by 8%.
The Swap premia Business to business profit events experienced by financial markets income 20 27 -26% and institutions in september had no Dividend material impact on the years results.
The income 2 60% average sterling: Us dollar exchange rate Total 55 41 -36% The percentage of profit from was unchanged over the year at Us$1.97.
B2B has risen from 33% in 2004 to 60% this year.
as the table shows, net interest payable in total, profits from the groups and similar charges excluding swap consumer businesses fell by 29 million.
premia but including deemed finance associateds profits were lower, due to charges and interest receivable rose by the additional costs of full colour 5 million to 75 million due to higher printing, as a result of the new Didcot average net debt.
income from tax plant coming on stream, and promotional equalisation swap premia fell by 7 investment in the property and motors million due to market movements.
Northcliffe was badly affected by the exceptionally challenging Dividend income fell by 1.2 million due advertising markets in 2008 as the mainly to a reduced dividend from gCap impact of the credit crunch spread Media plc which was sold in June.
DMg Radio australia moved back into profit.
oTheR iNCoMe sTaTeMeNT iTeMs an exceptional gain of 10 million arose Unallocated central costs were within income from associates on the substantially unchanged.
higher sale of the main business of Centurion overheads were offset by a lower formerly indigo holidays.
The group financing component as a result of the recorded other gains and losses of 28 surplus on the groups defined benefit million, compared to 36 million last pension schemes at the start of the year.
This comprised mainly net exceptional profits of 24 million on the JoiNT veNTURes aND assoCiaTes sale of businesses and gains of 14 The groups share of the results of million on the sale of surplus properties its joint ventures and associates fell by and investments, offset by impairments 5.6 million to 0.4 million reflecting of investments of 10 million.
the reclassification of glM as a subsidiary.
The main item is now DMg The group recorded 68 million of Radio australias joint ventures which foreign exchange losses on hedges increased their contribution, but this of intra-group financing.
This foreign was offset by our share of the losses of exchange loss is excluded from adjusted india Today, a start-up venture.
profit because an equal and opposite credit is excluded from the adjusted tax charge.
pRofiT BefoRe Tax The statutory result was a loss before tax for the year of 68 million, after charging 68 million of foreign exchange losses on tax equalisation hedging transactions, which cause an equal and www.
com 2008 38 T siU TM le o Maf p RY a Bg Ue siNess RevieW| fiNaNCial RevieW Continued TiTle of page financial Review continued GRAPH 1 REVENUE BY ACTIVITY % TO VIEW THE FINANCIAL REVIEW ONLINE GO TO: WWW.
COM 2008 BUsiNess iNfoRMaTioN exhiBiTioNs loCal MeDia BUSINESSREVIEW FINANCIAL eURoMoNeY iNsTiTUTioNal NaTioNal MeDia RaDio ANDTREASURYREVIEW iNvesToR 50 40 30 20 10 0 04 05 06 07 08 GRAPH 2 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA % NoRTh aMeRiCa UK ResT of The WoRlD ResT of eURope 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 04 05 06 07 08 GRAPH 3 OPERATING PROFIT BY ACTIVITY % BUSINESS INFORMATION EXHIBITIONS LOCAL MEDIA RADIO EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL NATIONAL MEDIA INVESTOR UNALLOCATED CENTRAL COSTS 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 -5 -10 04 05 06 07 08 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 TiTle of page sUMMaRY BUsiNess RevieW | fiNaNCial Revie Ti W C Tle o on f p tinu ag ee d 39 opposite reduction in the tax charge, graph 4 summarises the groups GRAPH 4 CASH FLOWS amortisation and impairment charges sources of free cash flows and use of totalling 264 million and net those funds during the year.
The net DISPOSALS 141M DIVIDENDS -67M exceptional gains of 1 million.
cash inflow from operations, joint OPERATING INTEREST AND ACTIVITIES 371M DIVIDENDS -74M ventures and investment was 371 DEBT TAXATION -13M TaxaTioN million.
in general, the groups profits REVALUATION -30M ACQUISITIONS -184M after allowing for the effect of are converted rapidly into cash and cash OWN SHARE CAPITAL exceptional and other items that are generation was strong across the group, PURCHASES -88M EXPENDITURE -83M FX SETTLEMENTS -37M not expected to recur, the underlying with 100% of profits converted into cash.
600 The fall reflects tax reductions from The main acquisitions were glM for 77 500 tax-efficient financing and increased tax million and the purchase of 27 million deductible amortisation in the Us that of euromoney shares, increasing the 400 are expected to recur.
over the next few groups stake to 66%.
The main 300 years the adjusted rate is expected to disposals were the groups investment in remain at around this rate, but gCap Media plc, hobsons european 200 eventually increase to around 30%.
graduate businesses, our North america 100 home interest shows and Dolphin There was a net exceptional tax credit of software.
The group spent 88 million 0 Inflows 512m Outflows 576m 148 million, being the write back of on acquiring its own a ordinary shares.
prior year provisions, together with the 68 million tax credit on exchange The groups interest cover, calculated differences on intra-group financings.
as the ratio of adjusted profits before GRAPH 5 interest, depreciation and amortisation RATIO OF EARNINGS BEFORE INTEREST, TAX pRofiT afTeR Tax eBiTDa to net interest payable, was 5.2 DEPRECIATION AND AMORTISATION TO NET INTEREST PAYABLE adjusted profit after tax and minority times this year, down from 5.8 in 2007 interests amounted to 181 million.
excluding swap premia, below the 7.0 The statutory after-tax result was Nil, groups current target of six times.
The 6.0 reflecting the benefit of the exceptional groups ratio of year end net debt to 5.0 tax credits.
eBiTDa was 2.7 times, just above the 4.0 groups target of 2.5 times.
The groups 3.0 peNsioNs standard & poors credit rating remains 2.0 The groups defined benefit pension at BBB.
1.0 schemes have moved from a surplus of 0 81 million last year end to a deficit of Most of the groups debt remains in 04 05 06 07 08 41 million at 28th september 2008 long-term bonds, the earliest of which calculated in accordance with ias 19. is not repayable until 2013. at the year This change is primarily due to a fall in end, the group had 839 million of the market value of the schemes bonds due for repayment in 2013, 2018, GRAPH 6 assets, partly offset by a reduction in MATURITY PROFILE OF GROUP NET DEBT M 2021 and 2027. it also had 70 million of the value attributed to its liabilities committed banking facilities available to 1,200 because of higher bond yields.
it until late summer 2009, 180 million 1,000 until september 2011 and 240 million Cash floW aND NeT DeBT 800 until september 2013.
Consequently, the Net debt increased during the year from group has sufficient committed debt 600 951 million to 1,015 million, an facilities to meet its foreseeable 400 increase of 64 million.
it had surplus committed generated free cash flow of 164 million 200 facilities of 247 million at the year end.
which was used to pay dividends and 0 make share repurchases and 08 11 14 17 20 23 26 27 acquisitions, partly offset by disposals Peter Williams of investments and businesses.
Finance Director Year ending September www.
com 2008 40 DMgT aND CoRpoRaTe RespoNsiBiliTY DMgT aND CoRpoRaTe RespoNsiBiliTY TO VIEW THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SECTION KeY DevelopMeNTs ONLINE GO TO: WWW.
COM 2008 DMgT DoNaTeD 946,000 To ChaRiTY iN 2008 BUSINESSREVIEW  The gRoUps CaRBoN fooTpRiNT ReDUCeD To 118,200 ToNNes esTaBlishMeNT of a NeW CsR CoMMiTTee iNTRoDUCTioN We welcome your feedback.
please send DMgTs activities are global and diverse, any comments to: investor.
relations@ operated through a large number of dmgt.
each business provides important channels of Responsibility in this area was communication and media focus to transferred during the year from the different sections of society throughout Risk Committee to a new Corporate the world.
social Responsibility CsR subcommittee of the Board which is now The group owes much of its success to the forum at which CR is discussed.
the entrepreneurial ability of the The Committees remit is to oversee management teams leading its the groups environmental, customer, BaNish The Bags businesses.
These businesses have community and employee practices.
The DailY Mails CaMpaigN To CUT thrived by allowing local management to The Board has policies in place on equal WasTe CaUseD BY CaRRieR Bags has BeeN Well ReCeiveD.
take local decisions in a local context, while opportunities, whistle-blowing, health benefiting from the global outlook and and safety and the environment.
overall financial resources of the wider group.
responsibility for CR at Board level lies with the finance Director.
The success of many of DMgTs businesses is inextricably linked to DMgT aND The eNviRoNMeNT understanding and engaging with the our main focus is on how we manage communities they serve, and this allows the impact of our eight printing presses them to identify needs and to campaign in the UK and two presses in hungary, effectively on the issues relevant to their where the key environmental impacts customer base.
This approach has are waste generation particularly waste delivered benefits to a broad range of newsprint, energy use, ink use, water stakeholders.
The aiM of This RepoRT all printing centres have environmental The following report provides more management policies.
The use of detail of divisional activities focused energy, newsprint, ink and plates and around key impact areas of corporate waste disposal have cost implications responsibility CR : and are, therefore, managed for reasons of good business sense, as well as to the environment reduce their environmental impact.
our readers, viewers and listeners the community The direct environmental impacts from our employees.
our mostly office-based divisions are relatively low.
our offices around the Reported here is a summary of our world practise paper recycling, and disclosure in this area.
There is a nearly all office paper waste at DMgT pa pa pap p pe e eR M R M R Ma a aNU NU NUfaCTURe dedicated section on the group headquarters is recycled.
There are The viRgiN fiBRes UseD iN DMgTs papeR MaNUfaCTURe aRe website, www.
co. uk, with also schemes in place for the recycling CeRTifieD BY The foResT further information available that of plastic, glass, toner cartridges, sTeWaRDship CoUNCil oR The paN eURopeaN foResTRY CoMMissioN.
mobile phones and iT equipment.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 DMgT aND CoRpoRaTe RespoNsiBiliTY Continued 41 effiCieNCY forest stewardship Council or the pan The introduction of a cutting edge european forestry Commission, both production facility in Didcot has of which run schemes that provide improved the groups efficiency in credible guarantees that the product energy.
The increased colour capability comes from well managed forests.
has led to additional colour pages being available to the readers of our papers, DMgT sources its paper mainly from although this capability increases european mills, most of which hold the energy use.
The group is continually environmental management standard reviewing its production assets and this iso14001.
98% of virgin fibre products B B Bi i ig B g g B Bo o oY Y Ys o s o s oN l N N l li i iTT TT TTl l le g e g e gi i iR R Rl l ls B s s B Bi i iK K Ke e es s s N No ov va as s s sY YDN DNe eY Y BR BRea eaK Kfa fas sT s T sh ho oW W has led to the closure of the print centre are sourced from managed forests.
C Co o-hho os sT M T Me eRR RRi iCK CK W Wa aTT TTs l s le eD T D Th he e in staverton and to consultation with the giRls BiKe CoNvoY RaisiNg 7,000 staff over the closure of the print centre DMgTs CaRBoN fooTpRiNT foR ChaRiTY.
The group continues to since 2007, DMgT has employed iCf make all reasonable endeavours to international to carry out a Carbon maximise energy efficiency and to footprint analysis across the whole minimise its affect on the environment.
They have focused on every facility within the group, as well as WasTe delivery activities and business travel, Newsprint production waste, as a gathering data since 2006.
This year percentage of total newspaper output, they calculated that the groups Carbon has risen this year by 0.17%.
Newsprint footprint was 118,235 tonnes 2007 production waste continues to be an 118,579, a decrease of 344 tonnes.
Waste newsprint having identified the groups Carbon and ink use is measured and reported footprint, we have embarked upon a to divisional board meetings on a strategy for its reduction.
at the first monthly basis.
meeting of the CsR Committee, it was decided that the group would commit to Targets for waste paper are set for each reducing its footprint by 10% from the product printed.
This percentage varies baseline year of 2007 by the end of 2012. according to certain criteria, such as the numbers of copies required and edition oUR ReaDeRs, vieWeRs changes.
actual waste volumes are aND lisTeNeRs compared against budgeted levels, with Editorial Standards the results provided for monthly review There are a number of standard setting aNNUal BlooD DRive 95 eMploYees DoNaTeD BlooD as at the appropriate Board level.
bodies that have established codes to paRT of eURoMoNeYs aNNUal which DMgTs consumer media BlooD DRive.
100% of production paper waste divisions adhere.
The main code for the groups UK soURCiNg newspapers is established and DMgT is aware of the responsibility it monitored by the press Complaints has along the supply chain, in particular Commission.
The newspapers also for one of its largest purchases: adhere to the Code of practice of newsprint.
The group has a central Newspaper and Magazine publishing.
Newsprint Committee, allowing coTeletext works to the standards set by ordinated review of the environmental ofcom and its editorial Code of practice credentials of paper suppliers and the which covers current broadcasting eMploYee fUNDRaisiNg DMg WoRlD MeDia laUNCheD iTs sourcing of their products.
legislation, while DMg Radio complies NeW eMploYee fUNDRaisiNg with the australian Communications MaTChiNg pRogRaMMe To Where virgin fibres are used in the and Media authority Codes of Conduct sUppoRT eMploYees RaisiNg fUNDs foR CaUses iMpoRTaNT paper manufacture, DMgT requires that and the Commercial Radio Codes of To TheM.
the forests are certified either by the practice and Broadcasting services act.
com 2008 42 DMgT aND CoRpoRaTe RespoNsiBiliTY Continued Corporate Responsibility continued Responding to reader, viewer and DMgT aND oUR eMploYees listener needs DMgT group is an equal opportunities Remaining in touch with the diverse employer.
in addition to a group policy, groups who make up our communities many divisions have their own policies laNDMaRK iNfoRMaTioN gRoUp and reflecting and championing their and practices across a range of WoN The BUsiNess ChalleNge interests is critical to DMgTs success.
Training is taken aWaRD foR CsR This YeaR iN ReCogNiTioN of TheiR seriously across the group.
aChieveMeNTs foR eMploYees, Reader, viewer and listener satisfaction is CUsToMeRs, The eNviRoNMeNT aND TheiR WoRK WiTh loCal monitored in a number of ways, including iNTeRNal CoMMUNiCaTioN CoMMUNiTies.
timely responses to complaints, regular a variety of approaches to staff in-house programming and sales communications exist within the group, research, readership surveys and other including: processes to receive feedback actively from customers.
the group extranet: regular communication events: Within the established editorial face-to-face communications with framework, editors and journalists have management: the freedom to operate as appropriate.
programmes related to specific key Compliance with editorial standards is events such as major changes in strictly monitored within the divisions in operations or equipment : various ways, which include compliance a group intranet, DMgT Connect, that committees, editorial responsibility, was launched in November 2007. compliance audits and training.
healTh aND safeTY DMgT aND The CoMMUNiTY a health and safety policy applies across DMgT CoNNeCT Community involvement is integral to DMgT and sets out to ensure the health, a gRoUp iNTRaNeT, DMgT CoNNeCT, Was laUNCheD our business as well as to the personal safety and welfare of its employees and iN NoveMBeR 2007. motivation of our employees.
We donate all others who could be affected by the money, time and in-kind donations such activities of the group.
as radio airtime and Teletext pages, and staff actively give time to areas including There are many examples of good fundraising and trusteeships.
practice across the group, in terms of health and safety management systems, in 2008, the group donated 946,000 the use of independent consultants and to charity.
initiatives focused on business-specific health and safety risk areas.
The use of media channels and activities for fundraising is driven through health and safety is particularly critical participation in the communities we in all printing press facilities, which have serve and the concerns and appropriate policies and management contributions of our readers, viewers and monitoring programmes.
The group has had no fines or group charitable donations are allocated prosecutions for health and safety by a Charities Committee at DMgT, as failures over the last year.
well as being made on a smaller scale by divisional and local management.
The While the Chief executive has overall Committee prefers to make donations responsibility at Board level for health to media and local charities where there and safety matters throughout the is an employee representative who will group, day-to-day responsibility is sponsor and report back on the impact devolved to the managing directors the allocation has had.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 BoaRD of DiReCToRs aND seCReTaRY 43 BoaRD of DiReCToRs aND seCReTaRY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 1 THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE ChaiRMaN 7 I G PARK CBE NoN-exeCUTive DiReCToR 13 T S GILLESPIE NoN-exeCUTive DiReCToR ageD 40 ageD 73 CaNaDiaN: ageD 70 lord Rothermere was appointed to the Board in 1995 ian park was appointed to the Board in 1994. he was Tom gillespie was appointed to the Board in 2004. and appointed Chairman in 1998, having joined the managing director of Northcliffe Newspapers from he is a former senior partner of ogilvy Renault and group in 1994. he is a non-executive director of 1982 to 1995 and its chairman from 1995 to 2003. has advised the group on legal matters in Canada for euromoney institutional investor plc.
he is retiring at the annual general Meeting in many years.
2 C J F SINCLAIR Chief exeCUTive UNTil 30Th sepT 14 D J VEREY CBE iNDepeNDeNT NoN-exeCUTive 2008 ageD 60 8 D M M DUTTON exeCUTive DiReCToR ageD 66 DiReCToR ageD 57 Charles sinclair retired on 30th september 2008, David Dutton was appointed to the Board in 1997. he David verey was appointed to the Board in 2004. having been a Director since 1988 and Chief executive advises the group on property matters and is chairman he was formerly chairman of the Blackstone group since 1989. he joined the group in 1975. he is a nonof DMg information.
UK and chairman of lazard, london.
executive director of svg Capital plc and was appointed to the board of associated British foods plc 9 P M DACRE exeCUTive DiReCToR ageD 60 15 K J BEATTY exeCUTive DiReCToR ageD 51 on 1st october 2008. paul Dacre was appointed to the Board in 1998, having Kevin Beatty was appointed to the Board in 2004, joined the group in 1979. he has been editor of the having joined the group in 1996. he is chief executive 3 M W H MORGAN Chief exeCUTive fRoM Daily Mail since 1992 and editor-in-chief of associated of a&N Media and managing director of associated 1sT oCToBeR 2008 ageD 58 Newspapers since 1998.
he was managing director of Northcliffe Martin Morgan was appointed to the Board as Chief Newspapers between 2001 and 2004. executive and to that of euromoney institutional 10 P M FALLON exeCUTive DiReCToR iRish: ageD 62 investor plc as a non-executive director on 1st october, padraic fallon was appointed to the Board in 1999. he 16 N W BERRY iNDepeNDeNT NoN-exeCUTive 2008, having joined the group in 1989. he was is chairman of euromoney institutional investor plc.
he DiReCToR ageD 66 previously chief executive of DMg information.
joined euromoney in 1974 as editor and was managing Nicholas Berry was appointed to the Board in february director from 1985 to 1992.
2007. he is chairman of stancroft Trust with wide 4 J P WILLIAMS FCA fiNaNCe DiReCToR ageD 55 experience in media and investment in emerging peter Williams was appointed to the Board as group 11 C W DUNSTONE iNDepeNDeNT NoN-exeCUTive markets.
finance Director in 1991, having joined the group in DiReCToR ageD 44 1982. he was a non-executive director of euromoney Charles Dunstone was appointed to the Board in 2001.
17 N D JENNINGS fCa seCReTaRY ageD 48 institutional investor plc until 30th september 2008 he is founder and chief executive of the Carphone Nicholas Jennings was appointed Company secretary when be became an alternate director.
he is a nonWarehouse group plc and was formerly a nonin 1999, having joined the group in 1988. he is also executive director of ibis Media vCT plc and formerly of executive director of hBos plc.
12 F P BALSEMO iNDepeNDeNT NoN-exeCUTive 5 J G HEMINGWAY NoN-exeCUTive DiReCToR DiReCToR poRTUgUese: ageD 71 ageD 77 francisco Balsemo was appointed to the Board in John hemingway was appointed to the Board in 1978.
2002. he is chairman and chief executive of iMpResa, he is an independent solicitor.
s. g. p. s, chairman of the european publishers Council and a former prime minister of portugal.
6 S M GRAY NoN-exeCUTive DiReCToR ageD 74 Marius gray was appointed to the Board in 1985. he was senior partner of Dixon Wilson, Chartered accountants, and is chairman of the audit Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Finance Committee Member of the Risk Committee www.
com 2008 44 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT This report is a summary of the full Directors and Corporate Policy on PAyment of suPPlieRs Governance Reports set out in the full Annual Report and The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its Accounts.
These companies have no formal code or standard which deals specifically with the payment of Activities suppliers.
However, their policy is to ensure that the terms of The principal activities of the Group are set out in the Group payment, as specified by, and agreed with the supplier at the at a Glance section on pages 20 and 21 of this Annual Review.
Business Review suBstAntiAl shAReholdings The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements The Company has two classes of share capital Ordinary of the business review is included in the Business Review shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
On 26th in the full Annual Report and Accounts.
A summary of the November, 2008 the following were interested in more than Business Review is included on pages 8 to 39 of this 3% of the issued Ordinary shares: Annual Review.
Rothermere Continuation Limited and other This Annual Review contains certain forward-looking parties to an agreement which comes within statements.
By their nature, these statements involve risk section 824 of the Companies Act 2006 63.1% and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend Codan Trust Company Ltd and Codan on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Trustees BVI Ltd trustees of the Esmond There are a number of factors that could cause actual Harmsworth 1998 Family Settlement 29.3% results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements.
coRPoRAte goveRnAnce No assurances can be given that the forward-looking The Company is committed to high standards of corporate statements are reasonable as they can be affected by a wide governance.
The Company has substantially complied with range of variables.
The forward-looking statements reflect the provisions of the Combined Code the Code issued by the knowledge and information available at the date of the Financial Services Authority in June 2006, except where preparation of this Annual Review, and will not be updated the Board has determined that they are inappropriate to the during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Review should be particular circumstances of the Company.
A detailed statement on how the Company has applied the Results And dividends principles of the Combined Code is set out in the full Annual The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to 16.8 Report and Accounts.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have reviewed million.
After charging minority interests of 16.8 million, the the Companys statements as to compliance with the Group result for the year amounted to Nil.
Combined Code to the extent required by the UKLA Listing Rules.
The results of their review are included in the Annual An interim dividend of 4.80 pence per share was paid on the Report and Accounts.
Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and the Directors recommend that a final dividend of 9.90 pence per RelAtions with shAReholdeRs share be paid on 13th February, 2009 making 14.70 pence per All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General share for the year 2007 14.35 pence.
Meeting, of which 20 days notice is given, where they have the opportunity to speak to Directors.
diRectoRs Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at In the interests of transparency and to assist private 26th November, 2008 are set out on page 43.
The Directors shareholders, the Company posts all announcements and remained unchanged throughout the year.
Mr Sinclair retired general presentations given to analysts and institutions on on 30th September, 2008.
On 1st October, 2008, Mr M. W. H. its corporate web site.
Shareholders and others interested Morgan was appointed to the Board: shareholders will be in the Group are encouraged to use the site and to email asked to confirm his appointment.
questions which they might have to investor.
Questions to particular Directors should be addressed The number of shares of the Company and of securities of through the Secretary.
other Group companies, in which the Directors or their families had an interest at the year end, are stated in the AuditoRs Summary Remuneration Report on page 46 to 51.
To the best of the Directors knowledge and belief and having made appropriate enquiries of other officers of the Company, In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs Park, all information relevant to enable the auditors to provide Fallon and Balsemo retire by rotation at the Annual General their opinion on the Accounts has been provided.
Each of the meeting on 11th February 2009.
Each of Messrs Fallon and Directors has taken all reasonable steps in order to ensure Balsemo, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
their awareness of any relevant audit information and to Mr Park, a non-executive Director since 1994, has decided establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that not to stand for re-election.
The Directors would like to pay information.
tribute to Mr Sinclair and to thank Mr Park for their invaluable contributions to the Boards deliberations.
The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in Post BAlAnce sheet events accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, On 6th October, 2008, DMG World Media sold Metropress, a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to owner of the Antiques Trade Gazette, for 7.5 million.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Continued 45 AuditoRs RePoRt The report of the auditor on the accounts for the year ended 28th September, 2008 was unqualified and did not contain a statement under either of sections 237 2 and 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
RePoRts And Accounts The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 28th September, 2008 constitutes the statutory Reports and Accounts for 2008 and is available in electronic form on the Companys website, www.
Printed copies may be obtained, free of charge, by writing to: The Secretary, Daily Mail and General Trust plc, Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT.
Shareholders who wish to receive the statutory Reports and Accounts free of charge instead of Summary Financial Statements or vice versa in future years should write to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, quoting Reference 0985.
AnnuAl geneRAl meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 11th February, 2009 at 9.00 a. m. at the Kensington Roof Gardens, 99 Kensington High Street, London W8.
Details of all resolutions, including those to be put as special business, are set out in the enclosed circular to shareholders.
By Order of the Board N D JeNNiNGs, FCA Secretary 26th November, 2008 www.
com 2008 46 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT This report is a summary of the full Remuneration Report set The main components of the remuneration package for out in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The full report will be executive Directors are: voted on at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
i basic salary, reviewed annually: the RemuneRAtion committee ii where appropriate, annual performance related bonus: The Remuneration Committee, which was established in 1992, is responsible inter alia for overall Group remuneration iii where appropriate, a long-term incentive plan, whereby policy and for setting the remuneration, benefits and terms executives are awarded shares under a Long Term Incentive and conditions of employment of the Companys executive Plan LTIP.
Directors and other senior managers.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Pensions The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme for In September, the Committee conducted a formal review senior employees including most of the Companys executive of the Committees effectiveness and concluded that it had Directors, details of which are given on page 50.
It is the fulfilled its remit and been effective in the year.
Companys policy that annual bonuses, payments under the Executive Bonus Scheme and benefits in kind are not RemuneRAtion Policy pensionable.
The Committee seeks to structure remuneration packages on an individual basis appropriate to the level non-executive diRectoRshiPs of responsibility, but generally designed to retain and The Company allows its executive Directors to take a very motivate the individual.
limited number of outside directorships.
Individuals retain the payments received from such services since these The Chairman is also the largest shareholder in the appointments are not expected to impinge on their principal Company.
He has been and will continue to be a long-term employment.
This does not apply where a Group executive shareholder.
His shareholding provides an alignment with serves as a non-executive director of a company because long-term shareholders that is not always the case in other the Group has a significant interest, as was the case of companies.
In setting his remuneration the Committee has Mr Williams directorship of GCap Media plc.
In this case, adopted a similar policy as for other executive Directors.
all fees were paid to the Company.
In the case of Mr Fallon, the Committee considers that his remuneration as executive chairman of Euromoney non-executive diRectoRs RemuneRAtion Institutional Investor plc Euromoney, a separately listed The remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined company, should be set by the remuneration committee of by the Board.
Fees payable are reviewed annually, including that company.
The report on this is set out in Euromoneys a comparison with the level of fees paid by other companies Annual Report.
of similar size and complexity: these fees are shown in the table below.
A recommendation to the Board on this subject The Committee also review the Chief Executives is then made.
The basic fee as a Director was last raised to recommendations for the remuneration packages for the 30,000 per annum on 1st October, 2006. managing directors of the Companys operating divisions, other than Euromoney, and oversees the bonus In addition, fees are paid for membership of Board arrangements established in each division, including committees.
Committee fees range from 4,000 per annum long term incentive arrangements.
These are designed to 12,500 per annum, except that the Audit Committee individually to reflect the targets and objectives of chairman receives a fee which was last raised to 25,000 each division.
The Committee considers that a successful remuneration No increases are being made for the 2008 09 financial year.
policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of commercial demands, changing market practice and diRectoRs RemuneRAtion shareholder expectations.
Investors will be consulted about The total amounts of the remuneration and other benefits any key issues that arise and Ordinary shareholders will be of the Directors of the Company for the years ended 28th provided with the opportunity to endorse the Companys September, 2008 and 30th September, 2007 are shown below remuneration policy on a regular basis through the annual for Directors: vote on the Remuneration Report.
2008 2007 In setting the remuneration of executive Directors, the 000 000 Committee is cognisant of the levels of remuneration Aggregate emoluments 11,095 10,753 increases being given around the Group.
For 1st October, Gains on exercise of share options 182 166 2008, where strict overall limits are being set on increases within the newspaper divisions, the Committee has decided Sums paid to third parties to increase all executive salaries by 3%.
for Directors services 79 79 11,356 10,998 RemuneRAtion comPonents A significant proportion of the remuneration is performance-related.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 47 The emoluments of the Directors are shown below: 2008 2008 2008 2008 Fees Cash Benefits Bonus and salary Allowances in kind Profit share 2008 2007 Note i Notes ii Notes iii Note iv Total total 000 000 000 000 000 000 The Viscount Rothermere 668 34 3 705 825 C J F Sinclair 1,095 216 1 560 1,872 1,911 J P Williams 622 229 1 201 1,053 1,044 D M M Dutton 300 1 50 351 271 P M Dacre 1,100 467 54 1,621 1,494 P M Fallon 221 14 1 4,040 4,276 4,001 K J Beatty 610 2 20 247 879 864 J G Hemingway 79 79 79 S M Gray 106 106 101 I G Park 38 1 39 46 C W Dunstone 39 39 40 F P Balsemo 34 34 34 T S Gillespie 30 30 36 D J Verey 50 50 50 N W Berry 40 40 26 F P Lowy 10 5,032 962 82 5,098 11,174 10,832 2007 Total 4,724 1,071 65 4,972 10,832 notes to diRectoRs RemuneRAtion Mr Fallon is entitled to 6.49% of the pre-tax profit earned i The figures for fees and salary include fees for Directors by Euromoney, which has a comprehensive profit sharing of subsidiaries including for the Viscount Rothermere, scheme that links the pay of its executive directors to the Mr Sinclair and Mr Williams as directors of Euromoney.
For non-executive Directors they also include Committee Mr Beatty earned a bonus, based on meeting performance fees, where applicable.
ii Cash allowances include an allowance paid to each of v No pension contributions were made to money purchase Messrs Sinclair, Williams and Dacre, in lieu of continued schemes in the year 2007 Nil.
membership of the DMGT Senior Executives Pension Fund.
The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair and Mr Williams also vi The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair, Mr Williams and receive a cash allowance instead of having a company car Mr Fallon retained fees of Nil 2007 25,000, 40,000 2007 and Mr Dacre instead of the Company providing Central 36,000, 12,500 2007 23,000 and Nil 2007 22,000 London accommodation.
respectively from their outside non-executive directorships.
iii Benefits in kind include the taxable value of company dAily mAil And geneRAl tRust long teRm incentive cars, fuel allowances and company contributions to medical PlAn ltiP insurance plans.
Where appropriate, executives are awarded shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, which was amended at the iv Group adjusted earnings per share for the year ended Annual General Meeting in February.
For 2008 onwards, LTIP 28th September, 2008 before amortisation and impairment Incentive Awards comprise two parts: a Core Award and of intangible assets, and exceptional items have shown a Matching Awards.
decrease in the year of 3% which, under the Scheme, results in no bonus being earned by Lord Rothermere, Mr Sinclair In 2006 07 and previous years, executives were invited to or Mr Williams.
commit shares in the Company at a market price and receive a matching award under the LTIP which had been established Mr Sinclair was awarded a bonus of 52% of salary and in 2001.
If a participant holds the committed shares for five Mr Williams of 34%.
years, he will be eligible to receive matching shares on a A performance bonus of 50,000 was awarded to Mr Dutton sliding scale dependent on the total shareholder return of the in the year.
Company compared with a peer group.
This peer group was chosen to reflect a range of listed companies in the businesses and locations principally occupied by DMGT.
com 2008 48 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT summARy of diRectoRs inteRests in shARes And shARe PlAns As At 28th sePtemBeR 2008 number of number of Beneficial shareholdings shares under share note i dmgt ltiP under option ordinary A ordinary note ii note iii The Viscount Rothermere 11,903,132 76,213,953 374,978 436,000 C J F Sinclair 477,207 153,942 898,000 J P Williams 243,072 322,083 365,000 J G Hemingway 200,000 S M Gray 4,000 84,000 I G Park 4,000 4,000 D M M Dutton 112,312 153,762 180,000 P M Dacre 125,950 125,774 665,000 P M Fallon 41,500 C W Dunstone 13,800 F P Balsemo T S Gillespie 7,500 D J Verey 6,500 15,000 K J Beatty 27,919 160,216 253,000 N W Berry i The figures in the table above indicate the number of The status of both performance conditions on outstanding shares of the Company and of securities of other Group share options is as follows: companies in which current Directors or their families had tsR condition an interest at the dates shown.
The figures include A shares performance committed by executives under the LTIP and also shares 1997 exercise to date ePs scheme price v. ftse 100 condition status awarded to executives under the DMGT Executive Bonus Scheme.
Dec 98 6.48 met met vested Dec 99 10.30 61% met not vested ii For 2007 and earlier awards, prospective participants June 00 10.96 70% met not vested were invited by the Committee to agree to commit shares in the Company to the LTIP at a market price.
Individuals were Dec 00 8.34 met met vested given six months to make commitments in order to allow for Jul 01 7.25 met met vested them to make purchases of shares where appropriate.
Once Dec 01 6.45 met met vested an individual agreed to commit shares which were owned by him or by his close family, the Trustee of the Trust the Dec 02 5.73 98% met not vested Trustee decided whether to make an award of an equal Dec 03 6.08 80% met not vested number of shares to those committed.
Dec 04 7.24 74% met not vested iii The table sets out options granted under the DMGT 1997 Executive Share Options Scheme from July 1997 to December tsR condition performance 2004: and under the DMGT 2006 Executive Share Option 2006 exercise to date ePs Scheme since March 2006.
All options under both schemes scheme price v. median condition status were granted at market value at the date of grant and in all Mar 06 6.98 61% not met not vested circumstances will lapse if not exercised within ten years.
Nov 06 6.88 57% not yet No Directors options lapsed or had terms and conditions tested not vested varied during the year.
Dec 07 5.05 49% not yet tested not vested iv Since the EPS condition for the options granted in March 2006 was not met in the year, 50% of those options granted to participating Directors will now lapse.
v As at 26th November, 2008, Mr Morgan, who was appointed to the Board after the year end, held 764 Ordinary shares and 902,007 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares 85,432 of which had been committed to the LTIP.
He had also received conditional core share awards over 47,780 shares and transition awards over 22,934 shares under the revised LTIP in March.
He also had options over 191,000 shares at prices ranging from 5.73 to 10.295.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 49 totAl shAReholdeR RetuRn: DMGT VS FTSE 100 2003-2008 UNDER PERFORMANCE -55% KEY DMGT A TSR 250% FTSE 100 TSR 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% totAl shAReholdeR RetuRn: DMGT VS FTSE 100 1986-2008 OUT PERFORMANCE 44% KEY DMGT A TSR 4000% FTSE 100 TSR 3000% 2000% 1000% 0% UNDER PERFORMANCE -32% KEY totAl shAReholdeR RetuRn: DMGT VS MEDIA SECTOR 2003-2008 DMGT A TSR 200% Media Sector TSR 100% 0% totAl shAReholdeR RetuRn: DMGT VS MEDIA SECTOR 1986-2008 OUT PERFORMANCE 124% KEY DMGT A TSR 4000% Media Sector TSR 3000% 2000% 1000% 0% The graphs above compare the DMGT total shareholder regard both indices as the most appropriate indices for return with that of the FTSE 100 Index and of the Media purposes of comparison of the Groups performance.
Index over a period of five years, as required by the Directors Additional graphs on this page illustrate performance Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Directors over a 22 year period for which data is available.
com 2008 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 03 Sep 08 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 86 Sep 87 Sep 88 Sep 89 Sep 90 Sep 91 Sep 92 Sep 93 Sep 94 Sep 95 Sep 96 Sep 97 Sep 98 Sep 99 Sep 00 Sep 01 Sep 02 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 86 Sep 87 Sep 88 Sep 89 Sep 90 Sep 91 Sep 92 Sep 93 Sep 94 Sep 95 Sep 96 Sep 97 Sep 98 Sep 99 Sep 00 Sep 01 Sep 02 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 50 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Continued AccRued entitlements undeR the dmgt senioR executives Pension fund transfer value of Accrued real increase pension Real Accrued transfer in accrued other Transfer Age at entitlement increase entitlement value as at pension net changes to values as at 28th sept at 30th sept inflationary in accrued at 28th sept 30th sept members of members transfer 28th sept 2008 2007 increase pension 2008 2007 contributions contributions value 2008 director Years 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 The Viscount Rothermere 40 43 2 14 59 325 16 139 146 626 C J F Sinclair 60 623 24 38 685 12,903 950 3,422 17,275 J P Williams 55 293 11 11 315 4,435 211 1,666 6,312 P M Dacre 59 628 24 15 667 12,547 373 3,449 16,369 K J Beatty 50 64 2 18 84 736 15 272 354 1,377 AccRued Benefits undeR the mAil newsPAPeRs Pension scheme Accrued transfer pension Real Accrued transfer value of other Transfer Age at entitlement increase entitlement value as at real increase changes to values as at 28th sept at 1st oct inflationary in accrued at 28th sept 30th sept in accrued transfer 28th sept 2008 2006 increase pension 2008 2007 pension value 2008 director Years 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 P M Fallon 62 7 1 8 138 34 172 notes to diRectoRs Pension entitlements iii Mr Fallons pension benefit in the above table relates to i The DMGT Senior Executives Pension Fund, of which five a deferred pension in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme for executive Directors are members, has since 1st April, 2005 pensionable service between 1st April, 1978 and 1st April, required a contribution from its members.
Neither the Group nor Mr Fallon continues to make any retirement age under the Fund for this group is sixty.
For contributions to this scheme.
each Director, the accrued entitlement at 28th September, iv The Company does not make any pension contributions on 2008 represents the annual pension that is expected to be behalf of Mr Dutton.
payable on eventual retirement, given the length of service and salary of each Director at this date.
A spouses seRvice contRActs dependants pension equal to two thirds of the Directors Contracts of service are negotiated on an individual basis as pension is incorporated and the Director can currently elect part of the overall remuneration package and their length is to receive the pension from age 50, subject to a discount if inevitably conditioned by external competitive pressures.
The pension, when in payment, will receive annual increases in line with inflation, Details of these service contracts are set out below: which may be limited when inflation exceeds 3% per annum.
company ii All transfer values have been calculated on the basis date of notice with whom contract period contracted of actuarial advice in accordance with Retirement Benefit Transfer Values GN11 published by the Board for Actuarial The Viscount Standards.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement Rothermere 17th Oct, 94 1 month DMGT represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would M W H Morgan 1st Oct, 08 2 years DMGT need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring J P Williams 30th Nov, 04 1 year DMGT the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benefits.
During the year there was a change to the D M M Dutton 27th Nov, 02 1 year DMGT assumptions used to calculate transfer values, which P M Dacre 13th July, 98 2 years DMGT made allowance for the expectation that members will live P M Fallon 2nd June, 86 1 year Euromoney longer in retirement than had previously been assumed as well as reflecting a fall in long-term interest rates.
These K J Beatty 19th May, 02 1 year Associated changes contributed substantially to the Other Changes to transfer value.
Prior to his retirement on 30th September, 2008, Mr Sinclair had a contract of one year in duration.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 51 Mr Morgans notice period will reduce to one year and nine months as of 1st October, 2009, one year and six months as of 1st October, 2010, one year and three months as of 1st October, 2011 and to one year on 1st October, 2012.
In the event of earlier termination of their contracts, each Director is entitled to compensation equal to their basic salary, benefits, pension entitlement and, as appropriate, bonus or profit share for their notice period.
The contracts of Mr Morgan and Mr Williams are subject to mitigation and in the event of the Director obtaining alternative employment during the notice period do not provide for further payment after such event.
This mitigation does not apply to their pension benefit.
Share options would be treated as for any member of the scheme, depending on the reason for termination of the contract.
On behalf of the Board RoTheRMeRe Chairman 26th November, 2008 www.
com 2008 52 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC We have examined the Summary Financial Statements of Daily Mail and General Trust plc which comprise the Summary Consolidated Income Statement, the Summary Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses, Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet and the Summary Report on Directors Remuneration.
ResPective ResPonsiBilities of diRectoRs And AuditoRs The Directors are responsible for preparing the Daily Mail and General Trust Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statements within the Daily Mail and General Trust Annual Review with the full Annual Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Daily Mail and General Trust Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statements.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
BAsis of oPinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the full Daily Mail and General Trust Financial Statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration.
oPinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statements are consistent with the full Daily Mail and General Trust Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of Daily Mail and General Trust plc for the year ended 28th September, 2008 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London 26th November, 2008 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 28th September, 2008 53 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 28th September, 2008 2008 2007 Total total m m Continuing operations Revenue 2,311.7 2,235.1 operating profit before exceptional operating costs and amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 316.9 322.4 Exceptional operating costs 31.8 28.1 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 258.1 134.9 operating profit before share of results of joint ventures and associates 27.0 159.4 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 3.5 1.8 Total operating profit 30.5 161.2 Other gains and losses 27.7 35.7 Profit before net finance costs and tax 58.2 196.9 Investment revenue 3.0 7.0 Finance costs 129.3 61.8 Net finance costs 126.3 54.8 Loss profit before tax 68.1 142.1 Tax 84.7 20.3 Profit after tax from continuing operations 16.6 121.8 Discontinued operations Profit from discontinued operations 0.2 0.5 Profit for the year 16.8 122.3 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 107.0 Minority interests 16.8 15.3 Profit for the year 16.8 122.3 earnings loss per share From continuing operations Basic 0.0p 27.3p Diluted 0.2 p 27.1p From discontinued operations Basic 0.1p 0.1p Diluted 0.1p 0.1p From continuing and discontinued operations Basic 0.1p 27.4p Diluted 0.1 p 27.2p www.
com 2008 54 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND ExPENSE for the year ended 28th September, 2008 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF RECOGNISED INCOME AND ExPENSE for the year ended 28th September, 2008 2008 2007 m m Profit for the year 16.8 122.3 Foreign exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 58.8 1.8 Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 0.2 Losses gains on cash flow hedges 17.5 6.4 Change in value of net investment hedges recorded in equity 45.3 13.4 Actuarial loss gain on defined benefit pension schemes 110.4 207.1 Deferred tax on actuarial movement 30.9 60.9 Deferred tax on other items recognised directly in equity 9.1 1.2 Current tax on items recognised in equity 1.0 0.3 Net loss income recognised directly in equity 56.6 291.8 Transfers Transfer from revaluation reserve to income statement on impairment of GCap Media plc 24.4 Translation reserves recycled to income statement on disposals 0.1 0.1 Transfer of gain on cash flow hedges from translation reserve to income statement 2.9 2.7 3.0 21.6 Total recognised income and expense for the year 59.6 313.4 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 75.0 296.0 Minority interests 15.4 17.4 59.6 313.4 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN EQUITY for the year ended 28th September, 2008 2008 2007 m m Total recognised income and expense for the year 59.6 313.4 Dividends paid 56.3 53.2 Issue of share capital 2.7 Initial recording of put options granted to minority interests in subsidiaries 0.5 18.5 Exercise of acquisition option commitments 7.0 7.2 Movement in losses attributable to minorities which are borne by the Group 5.4 Transactions with minorities 12.3 11.2 Settlement of exercised share options of subsidiary 20.2 13.2 Credit to equity for share based payments 16.6 18.1 Shares purchased to be held in treasury 88.3 32.8 Own shares released on vesting of share options 21.0 4.9 Revaluation of previously held interest in associate on acquisition of control 27.0 Adjustment to equity following increased stake in controlled entity 6.3 Total movement in equity for the year 171.9 245.2 equity at the beginning of year 720.5 475.3 equity at the end of year 548.6 720.5 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 55 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 28th September, 2008 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 28th September, 2008 2008 2007 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 354.9 313.4 investing activities Interest received 1.6 5.7 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 3.1 6.6 Dividends received from available-for-sale investments 0.3 1.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 64.5 72.2 Purchase of available for sale investments 15.9 0.6 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 15.4 5.3 Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale investments 55.1 2.1 Purchase of subsidiaries 104.3 305.2 Purchase of additional interests in controlled entities 36.3 7.1 Expenditure on internally generated intangible fixed assets 18.7 14.0 Treasury derivative activities 37.2 32.8 Investment in joint ventures and associates 13.5 14.5 Loans to joint ventures and associates repaid 4.8 5.0 Proceeds on disposal of businesses 58.5 37.0 Proceeds on disposal of associates 7.2 1.1 Net cash used in investing activities 144.4 316.5 Financing activities Equity dividends paid 56.3 52.6 Dividends paid to minority interests 10.3 8.9 Issue of share capital 2.7 Issue of shares by Group companies to minority interests 0.2 0.5 Purchase of own shares 88.3 32.8 Settlement of subsidiary share option plan 0.6 8.7 Interest paid 64.8 56.6 Proceeds on issue of bond 197.8 Premium on repurchase of bonds 2.6 Bonds redeemed 9.4 Loan notes repaid 26.0 2.8 Increase in repayment of bank borrowings 10.7 54.7 Net cash used in financing activities 235.4 28.1 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 24.9 31.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 64.0 96.1 Exchange gain loss on cash and cash equivalents 5.2 0.9 Net cash and cash equivalents at end of year 44.3 64.0 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Net debt at start of year 950.4 738.2 Cash flow 45.5 162.8 Arising with acquisition 34.1 Foreign exchange movements 4.8 2.4 Other non-cash movements 23.5 17.7 Net debt at end of year 1,014.6 950.4 www.
com 2008 56 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 28th September, 2008 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET for the year ended 28th September, 2008 2008 2007 m m Assets Non-current assets 2,092.1 2,246.2 Current assets 543.4 541.5 Total assets 2,635.5 2,787.7 LiABiLiTies Current liabilities 886.1 870.9 Non-current liabilities 1,200.8 1,196.3 Total liabilities 2,086.9 2,067.2 Net assets 548.6 720.5 shARehoLDeRs equiTY Called up share capital 49.1 49.4 Share premium account 12.4 12.4 Share capital 61.5 61.8 Capital redemption reserve 1.1 0.8 Revaluation reserve 39.5 46.0 Shares held in treasury 93.5 44.4 Translation reserve 22.2 27.0 Retained earnings 479.1 601.7 equity shareholders funds 509.9 692.9 equity minority interests 38.7 27.6 548.6 720.5 These Summary Financial Statements, extracted from the full financial statements, have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 26th November, 2008 and signed on its behalf by RoTheRMeRe MWh MoRGAN Directors Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 57 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION comPAny secRetARy And RegisteRed office Yearly and Annual Reports.
It also offers practical help on matters such as transferring shares or updating your N D Jennings, FCA own details.
Shareholders may register for the service at Northcliffe House www.
2 Derry Street This report is available electronically on the Companys London website which contains a link to Shareview to enable W8 5TT shareholders to register for electronic mailings.
Notification England by email has been given of the availability of this Annual Registered Number: 184594 Review on the Companys web site to those shareholders who have registered.
weBsite The Group has an internet website which gives information low cost shARe deAling seRvice on the Company and its operating subsidiaries and provides The Company has arranged with its brokers, JP Morgan details of significant Group announcements.
It also has a site Cazenove Limited, to provide a simple, low-cost share giving details of job opportunities within the Group.
dealing service for A Ordinary Non-Voting shares in Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
co. uk The main features are: a basic commission of 1% on both www.
com purchases and sales subject to a minimum commission of 10 per transaction : reduced commission rates for finAnciAl cAlendAR 2009 PRovisionAl transactions over 5,000: and no minimum investment.
For further details, please contact JP Morgan Cazenove 15th January Annual Report published Limited, Company Share Schemes, at 20 Moorgate, London, 11th February Interim management statement EC2R 6DA: the telephone number is 020 7155 5155.
11th February Annual General Meeting Equiniti also provide a simple low cost dealing service for 13th February Payment of final dividend Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares details of which 29th March Half year end are available at www.
31st March Payment of interest on loan notes 21st May Half year results and dividend announced Details of these and other low cost dealing services can 29th May Half Yearly Report published on website be found on the Companys website at www.
3rd June I nterim ex-dividend date 5th June I nterim record date loAn notes 3rd July Payment of interim dividend Loan notes issued by the Company and by Daily Mail and General Investments plc, a subsidiary, are repayable in 23rd July Interim management statement whole or in part at the option of loan note holders every 30th September Payment of interest on loan notes six months.
Loan note holders requiring repayment should complete the redemption section on the back of their loan 4th October Year End note and send it to reach the Registrars by 28th February 26th November Annual results and final dividend or 31st August for repayments on 31st March or 30th announced September respectively.
2nd December Ex-dividend date euRoBond PAying Agent 4th December Record date The principal paying agent for the Companys 7.5% Bonds due 2013, 10% Bonds due 2021 and the 6.375% Bonds due cAPitAl gAins tAx 2027 is Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, The market value of both the Ordinary and A Ordinary 1 Great Winchester St, London EC2N 2DB.
The principal Non-Voting shares in the Company on 31st March, 1982 paying agent for the Companys 5.75% Bonds due 2018 is adjusted for the 1994 bonus issue of A Ordinary Non-Voting HSBC Bank plc, Corporate Trust and Loan Agency, 8 Canada shares and for the fourforone share split in 2000 was Square, London E14 5HQ.
Enquiries should be directed to 9.75 pence.
John Donegan, Group Financial Controller, who can be RegistRARs contacted on 020 7938 6627, and whose e-mail address All enquiries regarding shareholdings, dividends, lost share is john.
certificates, loan notes in the Company and in Daily Mail and shARe PRice infoRmAtion General Investments plc, or changes of address should be The current price of the Companys Ordinary and A Ordinary directed to Equiniti, the Companys Registrars, at the address Non-Voting shares can be found on page 516 of Teletext on set out on page 58. analogue Channel 4 and on page 866 of Teletext on digital ITV electRonic communicAtions Freeview and Satellite.
A graph, illustrating the historical Equiniti operate Shareview, a free online service which performance of the A shares, is shown on page 17. enables shareholders with internet access to check their shareholdings and other related information and to register to receive notification by email of the release of the Half www.
com 2008 58 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Continued cRest shARegift Shareholders have the choice either of holding their shares In the UK, DMGT supports ShareGift, which is administered in electronic form in an account on the CREST system or in by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity the physical form of share certificates.
number 1052686 and which operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders wishing to give small investoR RelAtions holdings of shares to benefit charitable causes.
It may be Investor relations are the responsibility of Nicholas especially useful for those who wish to dispose of a small Jennings, Company Secretary, whose office is responsible parcel of shares which would cost more to sell than they for distribution of the Annual Report.
He is assisted by Fran are worth.
There are no capital gains tax implications Sallas.
i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also relations@dmgt.
possible to obtain income tax relief.
If you would like to use ShareGift or receive more information about the scheme, they can be contacted by visiting their website at www.
org or by writing to the Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN.
com ar 60 NOTES Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review 2008 fiNANCiAL HiGHLiGHTS DMGT ONLiNE DMGT: a MulTiple MeDia business DMGT.
Designed and produced by salterbaxter Printed by CTD Photography by Michael Harvey Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Review, 28th September, 2008 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT Daily Mail and General Trust plc T 44 0 20 7938 6000 F 44 0 20 7938 4626 W www.
co. uk Annual Review, 28th September, 2008
