CONSOLD ID IR AE TC ED TO C R A SSH R F EP LO OR WT C STAT on EM tinEN ueT d 75 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 28th September, 2008 2008 2007 Note m m Operating pro t before share of results of joint ventures and associates continuing operations 3 27.0 159.4 Operating pro t discontinued operations 24 0.8 Adjustments for: Share-based payments 35 16.6 18.1 Depreciation 3, 19 63.1 59.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3, 19 7.4 6.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 3, 18 90.3 82.2 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 3,17,18 167.8 52.7 Operating cash ows before movements in working capital 372.2 378.2 Decrease in inventories 0.6 5.9 Increase in trade and other receivables 3.9 64.2 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 6.3 59.8 Increase in provisions 5.4 3.4 Cash generated by operations 368.0 383.1 Taxation paid 24.3 43.8 Taxation received 11.2 Net cash from operating activities before payment into pension scheme 354.9 339.3 Payment into Group pension scheme following sale of Aberdeen Journals in 2006 25.9 Net cash from operating activities 354.9 313.4 Investing activities Interest received 1.6 5.7 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 3.1 6.6 Dividends received from available-for-sale investments 0.3 1.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 64.5 72.2 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 21 15.9 0.6 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 15.4 5.3 Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale investments 55.1 2.1 Purchase of subsidiaries 14 104.3 305.2 Purchase of additional interests in controlled entities 15 36.3 7.1 Expenditure on internally generated intangible xed assets 18 18.7 14.0 Treasury derivative activities 37.2 32.8 Investment in joint ventures and associates 20 13.5 14.5 Loans to joint ventures and associates repaid 20 4.8 5.0 Proceeds on disposal of businesses 14 58.5 37.0 Proceeds on disposal of associates 5 7.2 1.1 Net cash used in investing activities 144.4 316.5 Financing activities Equity dividends paid 10, 35 56.3 52.6 Dividends paid to minority interests 36 10.3 8.9 Issue of share capital 34 2.7 Issue of shares by Group companies to minority interests 36 0.2 0.5 Purchase of own shares 35 88.3 32.8 Settlement of subsidiary share option plan 38 0.6 8.7 Interest paid 64.8 56.6 Proceeds on issue of bonds 13 197.8 Premium on repurchase of bonds 13 2.6 Bonds redeemed 13 9.4 Loan notes repaid 13 26.0 2.8 Increase in repayment of bank borrowings 13 10.7 54.7 Net cash used in nancing activities 235.4 28.1 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 13 24.9 31.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 13, 25 64.0 96.1 Exchange gain loss on cash and cash equivalents 13 5.2 0.9 Net cash and cash equivalents at end of year 13, 25 44.3 64.0 www.
com 2008 76 N SIO GNIF TES T ICO T ANH T A E C CC OO NUN SOL TI ID NG AT P EO D I LIN CIE CO S ME STATEMENT Continued SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION Amendments to IAS 32, Puttable financial instruments and DMGT is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom obligations arising on liquidation effective for periods under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered beginning on or after 1st January, 2009.
The amendments are of ce is given on page 162. relevant to entities that have issued financial instruments that are i puttable financial instruments or ii instruments, or These financial statements have been prepared in components of instruments that impose on the entity an accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards obligation to deliver to another party a pro-rata share of the IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards net assets on liquidation only.
As a result of the amendments, Board as adopted by the European Union and with those some financial instruments that currently meet the fide nition parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies of a financial liability will be classi ed as equity because they preparing their accounts under IFRS.
represent the residual interest in the net assets of the entity.
The amendments set out extensive detailed criteria to be met The principal accounting policies used in preparing this in order to be able to classify these instruments as equity.
The information are set out in note 2. impact of these amendments is restricted to speci c cases and no analogies can be made.
The Group does not expect a These financial statements have also been prepared in signi cant impact from the adoption of this standard.
accordance with the accounting policies set out in the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts, as amended by the following Amendments to IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition new accounting standards.
and Measurement effective for periods commencing on or after 1st July, 2009.
The amendments clarify treatment of Impact of new accounting standards in ation in a financial hedged item and one-sided risks in a In the current year, the Group has adopted the following hedged item.
The Group does not expect a signi cant impact accounting standards: from the adoption of this standard.
IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1, Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment effective for Presentation of Financial Statements effective for periods periods commencing on or after 1st January, 2009.
The beginning on or after 1st January, 2007.
The impact of the amendments clari es that vesting conditions are service adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to conditions and performance conditions only.
Other features expand the disclosures provided in the Groups financial of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
It also statements regarding financial instruments and speci es that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by management of capital see note 30. other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The Group does not expect a signi cant impact from the IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions adoption of this standard.
effective for periods beginning on or after 1st March, 2007.
The adoption of this interpretation has not had any signi cant Amendment to IFRS 3, Business Combinations effective for impact on the Groups financial statements.
periods commencing on or after 1st July, 2009.
The amendment introduces changes that will require acquisition At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the related costs including professional fees previously following standards have been issued but not applied to the capitalised to be expensed and adjustments to contingent information in these financial statements since they do not consideration to be recognised in income and will allow the apply to this reporting period: full goodwill method to be used when accounting for non-controlling interests.
This will result in a change to the Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Groups accounting policy for purchases of stakes in effective for periods commencing on or after 1st January, controlled entities.
This amendment introduces changes to the way in which movements in equity must be disclosed and requires IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective for periods beginning an entity to disclose each component of other comprehensive on or after 1st January, 2009.
IFRS 8 sets out disclosure income not recognised in pro t or loss.
The amendment also requirements concerning an entitys operating segments, requires disclosure of the amount of income tax relating to products, services, geographical areas in which it operates each component of other comprehensive income as well as and its major customers.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14, Segmental several other minor disclosure amendments.
Adoption of this standard is not expected to change the disclosures already made in the DMGT Report Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs effective for periods and Accounts signi cantly.
commencing on or after 1st January, 2009.
This standard requires all borrowing costs which are directly attributable 2008 Annual Improvements the majority of changes will to an acquisition construction or production of a qualifying effect periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2009.
The asset to form part of the cost of that asset.
The Group does standard makes 41 amendments to 25 IFRSs as part of the not expect a signi cant impact from the adoption of this first annual improvements project.
restructuring IFRS 1, mainly to remove redundant transitional provisions: an amendment to bring property Amendment to IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial under construction or development for future use as for Statements effective for periods commencing on or after future use as an investment property within the scope of IAS 1st July, 2009.
The amendment introduces changes to the 40.
Such property currently falls within the scope of IAS 16: accounting for partial disposals of subsidiaries, associates and an amendment to clarify the circumstances in which an and joint ventures.
Adoption of these amendments is not entity can recognise a prepayment asset for advertising or expected to signi cantly impact the measurement, promotional expenditure.
Recognition of an asset would be presentation or disclosure of future disposals.
permitted up to the point at which the entity has access to the Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued 77 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION Continued Business combinations goods purchased or up to the point of receipt of services.
The The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the standard is not expected to have a signi cant impact on the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as Group.
In relation to the amendment to IAS 38 regarding the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of prepayments for advertising or promotional expenditure, the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity Group will be required to reassess its accounting approach to instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of re ect the requirements of the standard.
the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identi able assets, The following interpretations have been issued which are not liabilities and contingent liabilities are recognised at their fair applicable to the Group since they are only effective for values at the acquisition date, other than non-current assets accounting periods beginning on or after 28th September, 2008. and liabilities of disposal groups which are recognised at fair The adoption of these interpretations is not expected to have value less costs to sell.
Where an adjustment to fair values any signi cant impact on the Groups financial statements.
relating to previously held interests including interests which were equity accounted under IAS 28, Investments in IFRIC 12 Service Concession Agreements effective for Associates is required on achieving control, this is accounted periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2008 for as an adjustment directly in equity.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes effective for Goodwill arising on acquisitions is recognised as an asset periods beginning on or after 1st July, 2008 and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net IFRIC 14 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset Minimum fair value of the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent Funding Requirements and their Interaction effective for liabilities recognised.
Where control is achieved in more than periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2008 one exchange transaction, goodwill is calculated separately for each transaction based on the cost of each transaction IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate and the appropriate share of the acquirees net assets based effective for periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2009 on net fair values at the time of each transaction.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is effective for periods beginning on or after 1st October, 2008 initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES recognised.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiaries Purchase and sale of shares in a controlled entity together with the Groups share of all of its interests in joint Where the Groups interest in a controlled entity increases no ventures and associates.
The financial statements have been adjustments are recorded to the fair values of the assets prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the already held on the Balance Sheet.
The Group calculates the revaluation of financial instruments.
goodwill arising as the difference between the cost of the additional interest acquired and the increase in the Groups Accounting for subsidiaries interest in the fair value of the subsidiarys net assets at the A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Control is date of the exchange transaction.
Any difference between the achieved where the Group has the power to govern the cost of the additional interest, goodwill arising and the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain existing carrying value of the minority share of net assets is bene ts from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the Where the Groups interest in a controlled entity decreases, year are included in the income statement from the effective which does not result in a change of control, the Group date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal, as appropriate.
increases the minority interests share of net assets by the Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial book value of the share of net assets disposed of.
Any pro t statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies or loss on disposal of the share of net assets to the minority into line with those used by other members of the Group.
interest is calculated by reference to the consideration received, the book value of the share of net assets disposed All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses and a proportion of any relevant goodwill in the Balance are eliminated on consolidation.
Sheet relating to the subsidiary.
Minority interests Interests in joint ventures and associates Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the subsidiaries are identi ed separately from the Groups equity Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those is subject to joint control, that is when the strategic financial interests at the date of the original business combination and and operating policy decisions relating to the activities the minoritys share of changes in equity since the date of the require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing combination.
Losses attributable to the minority in excess of control.
the minoritys share in equity are allocated against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority An associate is an entity over which the Group has signi cant has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional in uence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a investment to cover such losses.
When the subsidiary joint venture.
Signi cant in uence is the power to participate subsequently reports pro ts, the minority does not in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, participate until the group has recovered all of the losses of but is not control or joint control over those policies.
the minority it previously reported.
com 2008 78 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Intangible assets The post-tax results of joint ventures and associates are Goodwill incorporated in the Groups results using the equity method Goodwill and intangible assets acquired arising on the of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of ventures and associates are carried in the consolidated acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of Balance Sheet at a cost as adjusted for post-acquisition the identi able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the joint the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is venture and associate, less any impairment in the value of initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently investment.
Losses of joint ventures and associates in excess measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
of the of the Groups interest in that joint venture or associate Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Negative goodwill are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided for, and a arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has statement.
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of foreign entity and are translated at the closing exchange the net fair value of the identi able assets, liabilities and rates on the Balance Sheet date.
contingent liabilities of the joint venture or associate On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as attributable amount of goodwill is included in the goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount determination of the pro t or loss recognised in the income of the investment.
Foreign currencies Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 4th For the purpose of presenting Consolidated Financial October, 2004, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP Statements, the assets and liabilities of entities with a amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
functional currency other than sterling are translated to Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 using exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
has not been reinstated and is not included in determining Income and expense items and cash ows are translated at any subsequent pro t or loss on disposal.
the average exchange rates for the period and exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity.
On Impairment of goodwill disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated recognised in equity relating to that operation is recognised impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
either annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible decline in the carrying The Group records foreign exchange differences arising on value.
retranslation of foreign operations within the translation reserve in equity.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identi able In preparing the financial statements of the individual cash ows, known as cash-generating units.
If the entities, transactions in currencies other than the entitys recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than functional currency are recorded at the exchange rate the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each Balance allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill Sheet date, monetary items denominated in foreign allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit, currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the pro-rated on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset Balance Sheet date.
in the unit, but subject to not reducing any asset below its Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are recoverable amount.
An impairment loss recognised for denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
rate prevailing on the date when fair value was determined.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary value using a pre-tax discount rate that re ects the current items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are market assessments of the time value of money and the risks included in the income statement for the period.
speci c to the asset or cash-generating unit.
Goodwill, intangible assets and fair value adjustments arising Licences on the acquisition of foreign operations after transition to Radio licences are stated at cost less accumulated IFRS are treated as part of the assets and liabilities of the amortisation.
Amortisation is charged to the income foreign operation and are translated at the closing rate.
statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful Goodwill which arose pre-transition to IFRS is not translated.
lives from the commencement of service of the network, estimated by management to be 20 years.
In respect of all foreign operations, any cumulative exchange differences that have arisen before 4th October, 2004, the Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of date of transition to IFRS, were reset to nil and will be the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the speci c excluded from the determination of any subsequent pro t or software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated loss on disposal.
useful lives, being three to five years.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued 79 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Publishing rights, titles and exhibitions 20 years Costs that are directly associated with the production of Radio licences 20 years identi able and unique software products controlled by the Brands 20 years Group, and that are expected to generate economic bene ts exceeding costs and directly attributable overheads are Market and customer related databases 3 20 years capitalised as intangibles.
Customer relationships 3 20 years Computer software licences 3 5 years Computer software which is integral to a related item of hardware equipment is accounted for as property, plant and Property, plant and equipment equipment.
Land and buildings held for use are stated in the Balance Sheet at their cost, less any subsequent accumulated Costs associated with maintaining computer software depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these whether there is any indication that those assets have assets commences when the assets are ready for their suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the intended use.
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where Fixtures and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their belongs.
expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
An intangible asset with an inde nite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an the asset may be impaired.
item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying Research and development expenditure amount of the asset and is recognised in the income Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an statement.
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the other than property, plant and equipment under construction Groups development activity, including software for internal using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful use, is recognised only if the asset can be separately lives as follows: identi ed, it is probable the asset will generate future economic bene ts, the development cost can be measured reliably, the project is technically feasible and the project will Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 50 years be completed with a view to sell or use the asset.
Short leasehold premises the term of the lease Additionally, guidance in Standing Interpretations Committee Plant and equipment 3 25 years SIC 32 has been applied in accounting for internally developed website development costs.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land Internally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a Inventory straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, when the Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable asset is available for use, and are reported net of impairment value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where losses.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have be recognised, development expenditure is charged to the been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present income statement in the period in which it incurred.
The Group uses the Average Cost AVCO method in the Newspaper divisions and the First In Marketing costs First Out FIFO method in the remaining divisions.
Marketing and promotional costs are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Pre-publication costs Pre-publication costs represent direct costs incurred in the Other intangible assets development of titles prior to their publication.
These costs Other intangible assets with nite lives are stated at cost less are recognised as work in progress on the Balance Sheet to accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
the extent that future economic bene t is virtually certain Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a and can be measured reliably.
reducing balance or straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets from the date they Cash and cash equivalents become available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as Cash and cash equivalents shown in the Balance Sheet follows: includes cash, short-term deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the Group cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as fide ned above, net of bank overdrafts.
com 2008 80 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs and Revenue discounts related to borrowings, are accounted for on an Group revenue comprises revenue of the Company and its accruals basis and charged to the income statement using subsidiary undertakings.
Revenue is stated net of value the effective interest method.
added tax, trade discounts and commission where applicable Retirement bene ts and is recognised using several methods.
Subscriptions As permitted by IFRS 1, First-time adoption of International revenue, including revenue from Information Services, is Financial Reporting Standards, the Group elected to recognised over the period of the subscription or contract.
recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and losses in the Publishing and circulation revenue is recognised on issue of pension schemes operated by the Group at the date of publication or report.
Advertising is recognised on issue of transition to IFRS.
Pension scheme assets are measured at publication, over the period of the online campaign or date of market value at the Balance Sheet date.
Contract print revenue is recognised on are measured using the projected unit credit method and completion of the print contract.
Exhibitions, Training and discounted at a rate re ecting current yields on high quality Events revenues are recognised over the period of the event.
corporate bonds having regard to the duration of the liability Operating pro t before share of results of joint ventures and pro les of the schemes.
associates For fide ned bene t retirement plans, the difference between The Group discloses as operating pro t, pro t before share the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the of results from associates and joint ventures, other gains and plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability on the losses, investment income and finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year believe that this measure is useful to readers as it shows the are taken to the statement of recognised income and results of the Groups operations before contribution from expense.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses joint ventures and associates and because it excludes one-off comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial gains and losses on disposal of businesses, properties and assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of similar items of a non-recurring nature.
differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and Other gains and losses what has actually occurred.
For fide ned bene t schemes, the Other gains and losses comprise pro t or loss on sale of cost of providing bene ts is determined using the projected trading investments, pro t or loss on sale of property, plant unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried and equipment, impairment of available-for-sale assets, out triennially.
In accordance with the advice of independent pro t or loss on sale of businesses and pro t or loss on sale quali ed actuaries in assessing whether to recognise a of joint ventures and associates.
surplus the Group has regard to the principles set out in IFRIC 14.
Leasing Leases are classi ed as finance leases whenever the terms Other movements in the net surplus or fide cit are recognised of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards in the income statement, including the current service cost, of ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or classi ed as operating leases.
The interest cost less the expected return on assets is also charged to the income statement.
The amount Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of charged to the income statement in respect of these plans is the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if included within operating costs or in the Groups share of the lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments results of equity accounted operations as appropriate.
as determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Since the assets and liabilities of the Groups fide ned bene t Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments plans cannot be allocated to individual entities on a fair and are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of reasonable basis, the schemes assets and liabilities are not the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of attributed to reporting segments and the pension charge in interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance each segment in the segmental analysis represents the charges are recognised in the income statement.
contributions payable for the period.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the The Groups contributions to fide ned contribution pension income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Bene ts received and receivable as an Taxation incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a Income tax expense represents the sum of the current tax straight-line basis over the lease term.
payable and deferred tax for the year.
Dividends The current tax payable or recoverable is based on the Dividend income from investments is recognised when the taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from pro t as shareholders rights to receive payment have been reported in the income statement because some items of established.
Dividends are recognised as a distribution in the income or expense are taxable or deductible in different period in which they are approved by the shareholders.
years or may never be taxable or deductible.
The Groups Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are liability for current tax is calculated using the UK and foreign paid.
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by Borrowing costs the Balance Sheet date.
Unless capitalised under IAS 23 all borrowing costs are Current tax assets and liabilities are offset and stated net in recognised in the income statement in the period in which the Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to they are incurred.
Finance charges, including premiums paid Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued 81 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Financial assets set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and Trade receivables when they either relate to income taxes levied by the same Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at taxation authority or on the same taxable entity or on their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for different taxable entities which intend to settle the current estimated irrecoverable amounts.
tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Available-for-sale investments Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable Investments and financial assets are recognised and in the future arising from temporary differences between the fide-recognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the of the investment within the time frame established by the computation of taxable pro t. It is accounted for using the market concerned, and are measured at fair value, including Balance Sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are transaction costs.
generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences Investments are classi ed as either held-for-trading or and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is available-for-sale.
Where securities are held-for-trading probable that taxable pro ts will be available against which purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets are included in net pro t or loss for the period.
For availableand liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the recognition other than in a business combination of other security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised taxable pro t nor the accounting pro t. in equity is included in the net pro t or loss for the period.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary The fair value of listed securities is determined based on differences arising in investments in subsidiaries and quoted market prices, and of unlisted securities on associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the managements estimate of fair value determined by Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary discounting future cash ows to net present value using difference and it is probable that the temporary difference market interest rates prevailing at the year end.
will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Goodwill arising on business combinations also includes Trade payables amounts corresponding to deferred tax liabilities recognised Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at in respect of acquired intangible assets.
A deferred tax their nominal value.
liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated Group are classi ed according to the substance of the goodwill on acquisition.
contractual arrangements entered into and the fide nitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
no longer probable that suf cient taxable pro ts will be The accounting policies adopted for speci c financial available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
liabilities and equity instruments are set out below: Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected Capital market and bank borrowings to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or at fair value which is equal to net proceeds at inception, and substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date, and is not are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the discounted.
A portion of the Groups bonds Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a are subject to fair value hedge accounting as explained below legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against and this portion is adjusted for the movement in the hedged current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes risk to the extent hedge effectiveness is achieved.
Any levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs to settle its current assets and liabilities on a net basis.
and the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, Equity instruments in which case the tax is also recognised directly in equity.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting the Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount The use of financial instruments is governed by the Groups reported in the Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable policies, which are set out on pages 36 and 41 of the Financial right to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and liability and Treasury Review and approved by the Finance Committee simultaneously and where the Group intends to net settle.
of the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on www.
com 2008 82 N SIO GT N E IF S T ICO T ANH T A E C CC OO NU SN OL TI ID NA G P TEO D I LIN CC IE O S C ME S oT nA tT in E uM ed ENT Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued or no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
At that time, any the use of financial instruments consistent with the Groups cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument risk management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast financial instruments for speculative purposes.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss previously Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value at recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the date the derivatives are entered into and are the period.
subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value is determined by using market data and Net investment hedges the use of established estimation techniques such as The Group seeks to manage the foreign currency exposure discounted cash ow and option valuation models.
The Group arising on retranslation of the reporting entitys share of net designates certain derivatives as: assets of foreign operations at each reporting date by designating certain derivative financial instruments and I. Hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and foreign currency borrowings as net investment hedging liabilities fair value hedges : or instruments.
Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net ow hedges : or investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
Gains and losses arising III.
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations net from changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments are investment hedges recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective.
Any ineffectiveness is recognised To qualify for hedge accounting, each individual hedging immediately in the income statement of the period.
relationship must be expected to be effective, be designated and documented at its inception and throughout the life of the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging hedge relationship.
instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer quali es for hedge accounting.
Gains and losses Fair value hedges accumulated in the translation reserve are included in the The Groups policy is to use derivative financial instruments income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
primarily interest rate swaps to convert a proportion of its xed rate debt to oating rates in order to hedge the interest Non-hedged derivatives rate risk.
The Group uses forward contracts to provide a gain or loss equivalent to income tax payable or receivable on foreign Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated exchange gains or losses incurred when intra group balances and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income are translated to the closing rate at the year end.
These statement, together with changes in the fair value of the contracts Tax Equalisation Swaps are marked to market hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged with the movement in fair value taken to income.
Tax risk to the extent that the hedge relationship is effective.
Equalisation Swaps are not capable of being designated as When the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, hedging instruments under IAS 39. or exercised, or no longer quali es for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their Cash ow hedges risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of The Groups policy is to use certain derivative financial the host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at instruments in order to hedge the foreign exchange risk fair value, with gains and losses reported in the income arising from certain rm commitments or forecast highly statement.
probable transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments obligation, legal or constructive, as a result of a past event, that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle ows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to If a hedged rm commitment or forecast transaction results present value where the effect is material.
in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, then, at the time that the asset or liability is recognised, the Share-based payments associated gains and losses on the derivative that had The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based previously been recognised in equity are included in the payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based initial measurement of the asset or liability.
payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis income statement in the same period in which the hedged over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the item affects the income statement.
shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, revoked, Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued 83 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued over a minority stake in a subsidiary give rise to a financial Fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model which liability under IAS 32.
Put options over an associate are is calibrated using a Black-Scholes framework.
The expected within the scope of IAS 39 and are accounted for as life used in the models has been adjusted, based on derivatives at fair value through pro t and loss.
Where put managements best estimate, for the effect of nonoptions over associates have a fair value of nil, no accounting transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural is required.
Written put options are classi ed within current considerations.
liabilities if exercisable within one year.
A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services The Group is party to a number of put and call options over received is recognised at the current fair value determined at the remaining minority interests in some of its subsidiaries.
each Balance Sheet date for cash-settled share-based IAS 39 requires the fair value of these acquisition option payments.
commitments to be recognised as a liability on the Balance Sheet with a corresponding decrease in reserves.
The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2, ShareSubsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are based Payments to all equity instruments granted after 7th re ected in the income statement.
On exercise and September, 2002 but not fully vested at 4th October, 2004 the settlement of the put option liability, cumulative amounts are date of transition to IFRS.
removed from retained earnings along with the derecognition of the minority interest and recognition of additional goodwill.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Key areas of judgement in calculating the fair value of the estimation uncertainty options are the expected future cash ows and earnings of In addition to the judgement taken by management in the business and the discount rate.
At 28th September, 2008 selecting and applying the accounting policies set out above, the fair value of these acquisition option commitments is management has made the following judgements concerning 37.1 million 2007 40.6 million.
the amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements: Deferred consideration Estimates are required in respect of the amount of deferred Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets contingent consideration, which is determined according to Determining whether goodwill and intangible assets are formulae agreed at the time of the business combination, and impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the normally related to the future earnings of the acquired relevant cash generating units.
The value in use calculation business.
The Directors review the amount of contingent requires management to estimate the future cash ows consideration likely to become payable at each Balance Sheet expected to arise from the cash generating unit and compare date, the major assumption being the level of future pro ts of the net present value of these cash ows using a suitable the acquired business.
At 28th September, 2008 the Group discount rate to determine if any impairment has occurred.
A has outstanding deferred consideration payable amounting key area of judgement is deciding the long-term growth rate to 37.6 million 2007 55.9 million.
of the applicable businesses and the discount rate applied to those cash ows.
The carrying amount of goodwill and Deferred consideration is discounted to its fair value in intangible assets at the Balance Sheet date was 1,503.5 accordance with IFRS 3 and IAS 37.
The difference between million 2007 1,480.1 million after an impairment loss of the fair value of these liabilities and the actual amounts 167.8 million 2007 52.7 million was recognised during the payable is charged to the income statement as notional year notes 17 and 18. finance costs.
Acquisitions and intangible assets Adjusted pro ts and exceptional items The Groups accounting policy on the acquisition of The Group presents adjusted earnings by making subsidiaries is to allocate purchase consideration to the fair adjustments for costs and pro ts which management believe value of identi able assets, liabilities and contingent to be exceptional in nature by virtue of their size or incidence liabilities acquired with any excess consideration or have a distortive effect on current year earnings.
In determining the fair value of assets, items would include one off gains and losses on disposal of liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired signi cant businesses, properties and similar items of a non-recurring estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with nature together with reorganisation costs and similar respect to cash ows and unprovided liabilities and charges, tax and by adding back impairment of goodwill and commitments, particularly in respect to tax, are often used.
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
See note The Group recognises intangible assets acquired as part of a 11 for a reconciliation of pro t before tax to adjusted pro t. business combination at fair values at the date of the acquisition.
The determination of these fair values is based Share-based payments upon managements judgement and includes assumptions on The Group makes share-based payments to certain the timing and amount of future cash ows generated by the employees.
These payments are measured at their estimated assets and the selection of an appropriate discount rate.
fair value at the date of grant, calculated using an appropriate Additionally, management must estimate the expected useful option pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant economic lives of intangible assets and charge amortisation date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting on these assets accordingly.
period, based on the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The key assumptions used in calculating Acquisition option commitments the fair value of the options are the discount rate, the Groups Written put options to acquire further stakes in subsidiaries, share price volatility, dividend yield, risk free rate of return, associates and joint ventures written at the time of business and expected option lives.
Management regularly perform a combinations, unless so deeply in the money that they true-up of the estimate of the number of shares that are represent in-substance ownership interests, are considered expected to vest, this is dependent on the anticipated number financial instruments under IAS 32 and IAS 39.
com 2008 84 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued of leavers.
See note 38 for further detail.
Taxation Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a highly complex tax structure which makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the ef ciency of legal processes.
Such issues can take several years to resolve.
The Group takes a conservative view of unresolved issues, however the inherent uncertainty regarding these items means that the eventual resolution could differ signi cantly from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and future cash ows.
Retirement bene t obligations The cost of fide ned bene t pension plans is determined using actuarial valuations prepared by the Groups actuaries.
This involves making certain assumptions concerning discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to signi cant uncertainty.
The assumptions and the resulting estimates are reviewed annually and, when appropriate, changes are made which affect the actuarial valuations and, hence, the amount of retirement bene t expense recognised in the income statement and the amounts of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The carrying amount of the retirement bene t obligation at 28th September, 2008 was a fide cit of 41.2 million 2007 surplus 80.6 million.
Further details are given in note 31.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS By activity The Groups business activities are currently split into six operating divisions business information, Euromoney Institutional Investor Euromoney, exhibitions, national media previously known as national newspapers and related activities, local media and radio.
These divisions are the basis on which the Group reports its primary segment information.
Revenue comprises Group sales excluding value added tax, less discounts and commission where applicable and is analysed by segment as follows: 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007 InterDiscontinued InterTotal segment Continuing Total operations segment Continuing m m m m m m m Business information 315.7 0.4 315.3 293.3 0.6 292.7 Euromoney 332.0 332.0 310.2 5.0 305.2 Exhibitions 201.6 201.6 164.1 164.1 National media 1,064.7 77.0 987.7 1,060.5 74.3 986.2 Local media 427.0 6.6 420.4 450.7 3.6 447.1 Radio 54.7 54.7 39.8 39.8 2,395.7 84.0 2,311.7 2,318.6 5.0 78.5 2,235.1 Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market prices other than the sale of newsprint from the national media to the local media division which is at cost.
The amount of newsprint sold during the year amounted to 35.1 million 2007 36.6 million.
The Groups revenue is further analysed as follows: 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007 InterDiscontinued InterTotal segment Continuing Total operations segment Continuing m m m m m m m Sale of goods 670.4 670.4 658.6 658.6 Rendering of services 1,725.3 84.0 1,641.3 1,660.0 5.0 78.5 1,576.5 2,395.7 84.0 2,311.7 2,318.6 5.0 78.5 2,235.1 The Group includes circulation and subscriptions revenue within sales of goods.
Revenue from investment revenue is shown in note 7.
Operating pro t loss from continuing operations before share of joint ventures and associates result is analysed by segment as follows: 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Before exceptional Operating pro t operating costs from continuing and amortisation Impairment of operations before and impairment of goodwill and Amortisation of share of joint goodwill and Exceptional intangible intangible ventures and intangible assets operating costs assets assets associates result m m m m m Operating pro t loss Business information 74.9 10.4 64.5 Euromoney 76.3 5.7 14.8 55.8 Exhibitions 38.3 4.5 81.3 13.7 61.2 National media 72.6 18.7 9.0 28.2 16.7 Local media 68.4 8.6 71.8 13.1 25.1 Radio 2.0 10.1 8.1 Unallocated central costs 15.6 15.6 316.9 31.8 167.8 90.3 27.0 Operating pro t before exceptional operating costs and amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets within the national media division comprised 88.6 million from newspapers, 6.0 million from digital offset by a loss of 3.0 million from television and unallocated divisional central costs of 19.0 million.
Included within unallocated central costs is a credit of 15.2 million which adjusts the pensions charge recorded in each operating segment from a cash rate to actuarial accrual rate in accordance with IAS 19, Employee bene ts.
com 2008 86 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Continued The Groups exceptional operating costs comprised exhibitions restructuring costs totalling 4.5 million, together with reorganisation costs of 18.7 million within national media and 8.6 million within local media.
If all acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, contribution to Group revenues would have been 2.7 million and contribution to Group pro t attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 0.3 million.
This information includes a charge for amortisation of acquired intangible assets for a full year, together with related income tax effects but excludes any pre-acquisition finance costs and should not be viewed as indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred if the acquisitions had actually been completed on the first day of the financial year.
Operating pro t loss from continuing operations before share of joint ventures and associates result is analysed by segment as follows: 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 Before exceptional Operating pro t operating costs from continuing and amortisation Impairment of operations before and impairment of goodwill and Amortisation of share of joint goodwill and Exceptional intangible intangible ventures and intangible assets operating costs assets assets associates result m m m m m Operating pro t loss Business information 70.6 3.6 8.0 59.0 Euromoney 68.4 5.9 17.8 44.7 Exhibitions 27.0 2.9 19.8 7.5 3.2 National media 83.3 13.3 24.1 28.8 17.1 Local media 92.5 6.0 5.2 11.0 70.3 Radio 3.7 9.1 12.8 Unallocated central costs 15.7 15.7 322.4 28.1 52.7 82.2 159.4 Operating pro t before exceptional operating costs and amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets within the national media division comprised 92.1 million from newspapers, 11.2 million from digital offset by a loss of 4.0 million from television and unallocated divisional central costs of 16.0 million.
Included within unallocated central costs is a credit of 1.9 million which adjusts the pensions charge recorded in each operating segment from a cash rate to actuarial accrual rate in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Bene ts.
The Groups exceptional operating costs comprised local media restructuring costs totalling 6.0 million, together with reorganisation costs of 13.3 million within national media, 5.9 million within Euromoney and 2.9 million within exhibitions.
Operating pro t before share of results of joint ventures and associates is analysed by segment as follows : 2008 2007 2007 2007 Total and Discontinued continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m Business information 64.5 59.0 59.0 Euromoney 55.8 45.5 0.8 44.7 Exhibitions 61.2 3.2 3.2 National media 16.7 17.1 17.1 Local media 25.1 70.3 70.3 Radio 8.1 12.8 12.8 Unallocated central costs 15.6 15.7 15.7 27.0 160.2 0.8 159.4 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 87 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Continued Amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets are analysed by segment as follows : 2008 2007 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m Business information 10.4 11.6 Euromoney 20.5 17.8 Exhibitions 95.0 27.3 National media 37.2 52.9 Local media 84.9 16.2 Radio 10.1 9.1 258.1 134.9 Included in the impairment charge is a reduction of 2.8 million 2007 nil in Euromoney, nil 2007 3.6 million in the business information division and nil 2007 0.8 million in the national media division in the carrying value of goodwill on recognition of deferred tax assets for pre acquisition losses note 17.
Groups share of results of joint ventures is analysed by segment as follows: 2008 2007 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m Exhibitions 0.4 National media 2.1 Local media 0.5 0.3 Radio 0.7 0.5 0.9 1.2 Groups share of results of associates is analysed by segment as follows: 2008 2007 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m Business information 0.3 2.1 Euromoney 0.3 0.2 Exhibitions 0.3 National media 3.8 2.0 4.4 0.6 Other gains and losses are analysed by segment as follows: 2008 2007 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m Business information 10.6 0.8 Euromoney 3.0 6.7 Exhibitions 9.4 1.7 National media 5.4 4.5 Local media 1.9 2.1 Radio 0.6 Group operations 2.6 19.3 27.7 35.7 www.
com 2008 88 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Continued Investment income is analysed by segment as follows: 2008 2007 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m Business information 0.4 0.3 Euromoney 0.6 2.9 Exhibitions 0.5 0.5 National media 0.2 0.9 Local media 0.6 Radio 0.2 0.4 Group operations 1.1 1.4 3.0 7.0 Finance costs are analysed by segment as follows: 2008 2007 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m Business information 1.2 0.6 Euromoney 11.9 1.3 Exhibitions 0.1 National media 1.9 0.8 Unallocated central costs 114.2 59.1 129.3 61.8 Loss pro t before tax is analysed by segment as follows: 2008 2007 2007 2007 Total and Discontinued continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m Business information 74.6 61.6 61.6 Euromoney 47.8 54.0 0.8 53.2 Exhibitions 51.4 0.3 0.3 National media 22.1 19.6 19.6 Local media 22.7 73.3 73.3 Radio 7.2 11.3 11.3 Unallocated central costs 131.3 54.0 54.0 68.1 142.9 0.8 142.1 The groups net assets are analysed by segment as follows: Total Total Total net assets liabilities assets liabilities 2008 2008 2008 m m m Business information 490.1 179.7 310.4 Euromoney 524.0 247.8 276.2 Exhibitions 292.5 94.1 198.4 National media 695.8 323.7 372.1 Local media 352.4 80.1 272.3 Radio 188.7 7.3 181.4 Unallocated pension assets liabilities 2.5 43.7 41.2 Group operations 89.5 1,110.5 1,021.0 2,635.5 2,086.9 548.6 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 89 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Continued Total Total Total net assets liabilities assets liabilities 2007 2007 2007 m m m Business information 471.1 154.0 317.1 Euromoney 511.3 237.4 273.9 Exhibitions 274.3 105.9 168.4 National media 724.2 321.2 403.0 Local media 450.5 122.7 327.8 Radio 201.5 7.3 194.2 Unallocated pension assets liabilities 82.0 1.4 80.6 Group operations 72.8 1,117.3 1,044.5 2,787.7 2,067.2 720.5 Impairment charge, additions and closing net book value of goodwill are analysed by segment as follows: Closing net Closing net Impairment Impairment Additions Additions book value book value 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m Business information 3.6 14.8 39.7 273.8 268.6 Euromoney 5.7 21.4 200.7 293.0 253.1 Exhibitions 67.7 19.6 43.8 0.4 94.7 97.6 National media 7.9 12.1 4.5 2.7 125.9 129.8 Local media 52.0 5.2 0.2 33.8 86.1 138.3 133.3 40.5 84.7 277.3 873.5 887.4 Amortisation, impairment charge, additions and closing net book value of intangible assets are analysed by segment as follows: Closing net Closing net Amortisation Amortisation Impairment Impairment Additions Additions book value book value 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m Business information 10.4 8.0 11.5 31.2 76.9 71.2 Euromoney 14.8 17.8 1.6 145.1 138.7 139.6 Exhibitions 13.7 7.5 13.7 0.2 100.8 136.9 57.7 National media 28.2 28.8 1.1 12.0 14.4 15.3 74.7 86.6 Local media 13.1 11.0 19.7 45.5 56.3 86.8 Radio 10.1 9.1 146.5 150.8 90.3 82.2 34.5 12.2 128.3 237.1 630.0 592.7 Impairment, depreciation charge, additions and closing net book value of property, plant and equipment are analysed by segment as follows: Closing net Closing net Impairment Impairment Depreciation Depreciation Additions Additions book value book value 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m Business information 8.6 7.0 11.3 10.4 25.2 22.9 Euromoney 2.8 2.9 4.2 7.9 21.7 20.9 Exhibitions 2.2 1.7 1.7 1.7 4.9 5.2 National media 5.5 6.0 32.9 30.2 17.3 41.5 312.3 338.3 Local media 1.9 12.5 13.8 22.1 12.1 100.9 92.6 Radio 2.4 2.2 0.5 0.6 14.0 15.3 Group operations 1.7 1.2 22.9 25.5 7.4 6.0 63.1 59.0 57.1 74.2 501.9 520.7 www.
com 2008 90 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Continued By geographic area The majority of the Groups operations are located in the United Kingdom, the rest of Europe, North America and Australia.
The geographic analysis below is based on the location of companies in these regions.
Export sales and related pro ts are included in the areas from which those sales are made.
Revenue in each geographic market in which customers are located is not disclosed as there is no material difference between the two.
Revenue is analysed by geographic area as follows: 2008 2007 2007 2007 Total and Discontinued continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m UK 1,614.1 1,660.9 5.0 1,655.9 Rest of Europe 71.3 58.9 58.9 North America 486.5 404.5 404.5 Australia 70.8 52.1 52.1 Rest of the World 69.0 63.7 63.7 2,311.7 2,240.1 5.0 2,235.1 Operating pro t loss before share of results of joint ventures and associates is analysed by geographic area as follows: 2008 2007 2007 2007 Total and Discontinued continuing Total operations Continuing m m m m UK 20.2 86.5 0.8 85.7 Rest of Europe 9.8 6.8 6.8 North America 12.8 73.7 73.7 Australia 6.6 20.3 20.3 Rest of the World 16.4 13.5 13.5 27.0 160.2 0.8 159.4 Groups share of results of joint ventures is analysed by geographic area as follows: 2008 2007 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m UK 2.1 Rest of Europe 0.5 0.3 North America 0.4 Australia 0.7 0.5 0.9 1.2 Groups share of results of associates is analysed by geographic area as follows: 2008 2007 Total and Total and continuing continuing m m UK 4.4 1.6 North America 1.8 Rest of the World 0.4 4.4 0.6 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 91 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Continued Groups net assets are analysed by geographic area as follows: Total net assets Total assets Total liabilities liabilities 2008 2008 2008 m m m UK 1,327.2 1,608.7 281.5 Rest of Europe 70.4 15.9 54.5 North America 932.5 386.8 545.7 Australia 197.9 11.6 186.3 Rest of the World 107.5 63.9 43.6 2,635.5 2,086.9 548.6 Total net assets Total assets Total liabilities liabilities 2007 2007 2007 m m m UK 1,544.6 1,554.1 9.5 Rest of Europe 90.1 33.1 57.0 North America 845.0 409.1 435.9 Australia 211.6 12.5 199.1 Rest of the World 96.4 58.4 38.0 2,787.7 2,067.2 720.5 Impairment charge, additions and closing net book value of goodwill are analysed by geographic area as follows: Closing net Closing net Impairment Impairment Additions Additions book value book value 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m UK 66.5 18.6 30.6 120.5 342.4 376.8 Rest of Europe 5.6 10.4 33.1 North America 66.2 13.6 53.4 141.1 479.1 434.9 Australia 0.6 8.3 1.9 2.5 Rest of the World 0.7 10.1 39.7 40.1 133.3 40.5 84.7 277.3 873.5 887.4 Included within the goodwill impairment charge of 133.3 million is a reduction in goodwill of 2.8 million relating to the recognition of a deferred tax asset for pre-acquisition losses acquired with Metal Bulletin.
In accordance with IAS 12, Income taxes the Group is required to reduce its previously capitalised goodwill to offset the recognition of this deferred tax asset.
Included within the goodwill impairment charge in 2007 of 40.5 million is a reduction in goodwill of 4.4 million relating to the recognition of a deferred tax asset for pre-acquisition losses of Genscape of 3.6 million and Primelocation of 0.8 million.
com 2008 92 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Continued Impairment, depreciation charge, additions and closing net book value of property, plant and equipment are analysed by geographic area as follows: Closing net Closing net Impairment Impairment Depreciation Depreciation Additions Additions book value book value 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m UK 7.4 6.0 48.8 47.5 36.4 59.7 440.2 470.0 Rest of Europe 2.5 2.0 9.1 1.9 17.8 9.0 North America 8.0 6.2 9.2 10.1 24.7 21.3 Australia 2.7 2.5 0.7 0.8 14.4 15.9 Rest of the World 1.1 0.8 1.7 1.7 4.8 4.5 7.4 6.0 63.1 59.0 57.1 74.2 501.9 520.7 Operating pro t before the share of results of joint ventures and associates is further analysed as follows: 2008 2007 2007 2007 Total and Discontinued continuing Total operations Continuing Note m m m m Revenue 2,311.7 2,240.1 5.0 2,235.1 Decrease in stocks of nished goods and work in progress 1.8 2.1 2.1 Raw materials and consumables 345.0 283.7 283.7 Inventories recognised as an expense in the period 346.8 285.8 285.8 Staff costs 4 734.6 683.1 1.8 681.3 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 17, 18 167.8 52.7 52.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 18 90.3 82.2 82.2 Promotion and marketing costs 159.6 173.1 173.1 Venue and delegate costs 117.6 87.2 87.2 Editorial and production costs 104.2 85.5 0.8 84.7 Distribution and transportation costs 91.3 90.2 90.2 Royalties and similar charges 56.9 59.2 1.2 58.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19 63.1 59.0 59.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 19 7.4 6.0 6.0 Rental of property 20.9 19.5 19.5 Other property costs 37.4 44.2 0.2 44.0 Rental of plant and equipment 5.9 6.9 6.9 Foreign exchange translation differences 2.9 1.6 1.6 Other expenses 283.8 346.9 0.2 346.7 27.0 160.2 0.8 159.4 In the prior year 32.1 million of venue and delegate costs and 14.5 million of editorial and production costs were included within the heading other expenses.
These have been reanalysed to ensure consistency with the current years analysis.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 93 3 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Continued The total remuneration of the Groups auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, and its associates is analysed as follows: 2008 2007 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.3 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2.5 2.4 Total audit fees 2.8 2.7 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Corporate finance services 0.7 Transaction support services 0.4 Tax services 0.6 0.6 Other services 0.4 2.2 Total non-audit fees 1.8 3.3 4.6 6.0 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not required to be disclosed because the Consolidated Financial Statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
4 EMPLOYEES The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors is analysed as follows: 2008 2007 Number Number Business information 3,815 2,995 Euromoney 2,362 2,332 Exhibitions 820 851 National media 4,752 4,651 Local media 5,579 5,618 Radio 503 507 Group operations 94 89 17,925 17,043 Total staff costs comprised: 2008 2007 Note m m Wages and salaries 641.5 581.3 Share-based payments 38 17.0 18.1 Social security costs 55.6 50.8 Pension costs 31 20.5 31.1 734.6 681.3 www.
com 2008 94 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 5 SHARE OF RESULTS OF JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES 2008 2007 Note m m Share of pro ts from operations of joint ventures 0.5 2.4 Share of losses pro ts from operations of associates 0.3 3.6 Share of associates other gains and losses i 9.8 0.6 Before amortisation, impairment of goodwill, interest and tax 10.0 6.6 Share of amortisation of intangibles of joint ventures 0.6 0.7 Share of amortisation of intangibles of associates 3.2 Share of associates interest receivable 0.2 0.1 Share of joint ventures tax 0.8 0.5 Share of associates tax 0.5 0.5 Impairment of carrying value of associate ii 4.8 3.5 1.8 Share of results from operations of joint ventures 0.9 1.2 Share of results from operations of associates 9.2 0.6 Impairment of carrying value of associate 4.8 3.5 1.8 i Represents the Groups share of Centurion Holiday Group Limiteds formerly Indigo Holidays Limited pro t on disposal of Hotels4u.
ii Centurion Holiday Group Limited was liquidated during the year.
The carrying value was written down to the proceeds received on liquidation.
6 OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES 2008 2007 Note m m Pro t on sale of available-for-sale investments 7.6 0.7 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 21 10.1 Pro t on sale of property, plant and equipment 6.8 1.2 Pro t on sale of businesses 16 23.4 15.2 Recycled impairment loss of GCap Media plc 35 24.4 Pro t on deemed part disposal of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc 42.4 Pro t on sale and deemed disposal of joint ventures and associates 0.6 27.7 35.7 The pro t on sale of businesses mainly comprises the sale of Consumer North American Home Shows in the exhibitions division, Dolphin and the European business of Hobsons within business information and British Pathe within national media.
No tax charge is due on the sale of Hobsons and British Pathe due to the availability of a statutory exemption.
A tax charge of 1.9 million arose on the sale of Consumer North American Home Shows and a tax charge of 2.4 million arose on the sale of Dolphin.
In the prior year the pro t on deemed disposal of Euromoney arose following Euromoneys issue of 65.0 million new share capital to the shareholders of Metal Bulletin plc thereby reducing the Groups interest in Euromoney.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 95 7 INVESTMENT REVENUE 2008 2007 m m Dividend income The Press Association Limited 0.2 AMI 0.3 GCap Media plc 0.3 1.0 Interest receivable Short-term deposits 2.7 5.5 3.0 7.0 8 FINANCE COSTS 2008 2007 Note m m Interest, arrangement and commitment fees payable on bonds, bank loans and loan notes 78.3 72.0 Loss gain on derivatives, or portions thereof, not designated for hedge accounting 45.6 16.5 Finance charge on discounting of deferred consideration 32 2.4 2.8 Other 3.0 3.5 129.3 61.8 Analysed as follows: Interest, arrangement and commitment fees payable on bonds, bank loans and loan notes 78.3 72.0 Finance charge on discounting of deferred consideration 32 2.4 2.8 Change in fair value of non designated portion of derivatives designated as net investment hedges 2.6 Change in fair value of interest rate caps not designated for hedge accounting 0.2 0.3 Change in fair value of derivative hedge of bond 1.1 3.0 Change in fair value of hedged portion of bond 1.1 3.0 78.3 75.1 Tax equalisation swap income 14.5 30.5 Non foreign exchange gain loss on tax equalisation options 5.3 3.4 19.8 27.1 Foreign exchange loss on tax equalisation arrangements 67.8 10.3 Foreign exchange loss on intra-group nancing 4.7 Change in fair value of acquisition put options 3.0 3.8 Premium on repurchase of bonds 2.6 70.8 13.8 129.3 61.8 The comparative gures in the above table have been re-analysed in order to assist the readers understanding of the Groups finance costs.
Tax equalisation swap income and the gain loss from tax equalisation options totalling 19.8 million 2007 27.1 million arises from the economic hedging of tax on foreign exchange movements.
The foreign exchange loss on tax equalisation arrangements of 67.8 million 2007 10.3 million is excluded from adjusted pro t since it is equal to a reduced tax charge see note 9.
In addition, the foreign exchange loss on intra group nancing, premium on repurchase of bonds and the change in fair value of acquisition put options are also excluded from adjusted pro ts.
The finance charge on the discounting of deferred consideration arises from the requirement under IFRS 3, Business Combinations to discount deferred consideration back to current values.
com 2008 96 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 9 TAX 2008 2007 m m The credit charge on the pro t for the year consists of: UK tax Corporation tax at 29% 2007 30% 18.0 41.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 28.2 29.4 46.2 12.5 Overseas tax Corporation tax 18.4 18.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.8 0.2 Total current tax 27.0 31.1 Deferred tax Origination and reversals of timing differences 60.6 13.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.9 2.9 Total deferred tax 57.7 10.8 84.7 20.3 Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a highly complex tax structure which makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
Since the Group manages its tax affairs on a Group wide basis it does not report a segmental analysis of the tax charge in the income statement.
A current tax credit of 1.0 million 2007 0.3 million and a deferred tax credit of 40.0 million 2007 charge 59.7 million was credited directly to equity note 35.
The tax charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 29% 2007 30% representing the weighted average annual corporate tax rate for the full financial year.
The differences are explained below: 2008 2007 m m Loss pro t on ordinary activities before tax continuing 68.1 142.1 Pro t before tax discontinued 0.2 0.5 Tax on loss pro t on ordinary activities at the standard rate 19.7 42.6 Effect of: Amortisation and Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 21.3 18.2 Other expenses not deductible for tax purposes 15.6 6.6 Additional items deductible for tax purposes 70.1 14.7 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 7.1 2.9 Effect of overseas tax rates 0.1 2.5 Effect of associates tax 2.4 0.5 Tax losses unrelieved 9.0 6.1 Write off disposal of subsidiaries 7.7 11.2 Adjustment in respect of prior years 24.5 26.7 Other 1.0 0.3 Total tax credit charge on the pro t for the year 84.7 20.3 The net prior year credit of 24.5 million 2007 26.7 million arose largely from the agreement of certain prior year open issues with tax authorities and a reassessment of the level of tax provisions required.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 97 9 TAX Continued Adjusted tax on pro ts before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, restructuring costs and non-recurring items adjusted tax charge amounted to 62.8 million 2007 75.9 million and the resulting rate is 24.0% 2007 26.3%.
The differences between the tax credit and the adjusted tax charge are shown in the reconciliation below: 2008 2007 m m Total tax credit charge on the pro t for the year 84.7 20.3 Deferred tax on intangible assets and goodwill 37.2 14.0 Current tax on foreign exchange on tax equalisation contracts 67.8 10.3 Agreement of open issues with tax authorities 23.8 27.4 Tax on other exceptional items 18.7 3.9 Adjusted tax charge on the pro t for the period 62.8 75.9 In calculating the adjusted tax rate, the Group excludes the potential future deferred tax effects of intangible assets and goodwill as it prefers to give the readers of its accounts a view of the tax charge based on the current status of such items.
A credit of 67.8 million relating to tax on foreign exchange losses 2007 10.3 million has been treated as exceptional as it matches foreign exchange losses of 67.8 million 2007 10.3 million on tax equalisation swaps included within finance costs see note 8.
10 DIVIDENDS PAID 2008 2008 2007 2007 Pence Pence per share m per share m Amounts recognisable as distributions to equity holders in the period Ordinary shares final dividend for the year ended 30th September, 2007 9.90 2.0 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares final dividend for the year ended 30th September, 2007 9.90 36.4 Ordinary shares final dividend for the year ended 1st October, 2006 9.00 1.8 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares final dividend for the year ended 1st October, 2006 9.00 33.2 38.4 35.0 Ordinary shares interim dividend for the year ended 28th September, 2008 4.80 1.0 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares interim dividend for the year ended 28th September, 2008 4.80 16.9 Ordinary shares interim dividend for the year ended 30th September, 2007 4.45 0.9 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares interim dividend for the year ended 30th September, 2007 4.45 16.7 17.9 17.6 14.70 56.3 13.45 52.6 The Board has declared a final dividend of 9.90p per Ordinary A Ordinary Non-Voting share 2007 9.90p which will absorb an estimated 37.1 million of shareholders funds for which no liability has been recognised in these financial statements.
Subject to shareholder approval it will be paid on 13th February, 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28th November, 2008. www.
com 2008 98 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 11 ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL OPERATING COSTS AND AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS, OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES AND EXCEPTIONAL FINANCING COSTS, AFTER TAXATION AND MINORITY INTERESTS 2008 2007 Note m m Loss pro t before tax continuing 68.1 142.1 Pro t before tax discontinued 24 0.2 0.8 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets in Group pro t from operations and in joint ventures and associates 3, 5 90.9 86.0 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 3 167.8 52.7 Exceptional operating costs 3 31.8 28.1 Share of associates other gains 5 9.8 0.6 Impairment of carrying value of associate 5 4.8 Other gains and losses: Pro t on sale of available-for-sale investments 6 7.6 0.7 Pro t on sale of property, plant and equipment 6 6.8 1.2 Pro t on sale of businesses 6 23.4 15.2 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 6 10.1 Recycled impairment loss of GCap Media plc 6 24.4 Pro t on deemed part disposal of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc 6 42.4 Pro t on sale and deemed disposal of joint ventures and associates 6 0.6 Pro t on sale of discontinued operations 24 0.2 Finance costs: Foreign exchange loss on tax equalisation arrangements 8 67.8 10.3 Foreign exchange loss on intra-group nancing 8 4.7 Change in fair value of acquisition put options 8 3.0 3.8 Premium on repurchase of bonds 8 2.6 Tax: Share of tax in joint ventures and associates 5 1.3 1.0 Pro t before exceptional operating costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, other gains and losses and exceptional nancing costs, taxation and minority interest 261.8 288.2 Total tax credit charge on the pro t for the period 9 84.7 20.3 Adjust for: Deferred tax on intangible assets and goodwill 9 37.2 14.0 Current tax on foreign exchange on tax equalisation arrangements 9 67.8 10.3 Agreed open issues with tax authorities 9 23.8 27.4 Tax on other exceptional items 9 18.7 3.9 Interest of minority shareholders 18.1 19.8 Adjusted pro t before exceptional operating costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, other gains and losses and exceptional nancing costs, taxation and minority interests 180.9 192.5 The adjusted minority share of pro ts for the year of 18.1 million 2007 19.8 million is stated after eliminating a credit of 1.2 million 2007 4.5 million, being the minority share of exceptional items.
12 EARNINGS LOSS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share of 0.0 p 2007 27.3 p and diluted loss per share of 0.2 p 2007 earnings 27.1 p are calculated, in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per share, on Group pro t for the financial year of nil 2007 107.0 million and on the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year, as set out below.
As in previous years, adjusted earnings per share have also been disclosed since the Directors consider that this alternative measure gives a more comparable indication of the Groups underlying trading performance.
Adjusted earnings per share of Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 99 12 EARNINGS LOSS PER SHARE Continued 47.9 p 2007 49.3 p are calculated on pro t before exceptional operating costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, after charging the taxation and minority interests associated with those pro ts, of 180.9 million 2007 192.5 million, as set out in Note 11 above, and on the basic weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2008 2007 2008 2007 Diluted Diluted Basic Basic pence pence pence pence per share per share per share per share Earnings per share from continuing operations 0.2 27.1 27.3 Adjustment to exclude earnings of discontinued operations 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Basic earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 0.1 27.2 0.1 27.4 Add back: Amortisation of intangible assets in Group pro t from operations and in joint ventures and associates 24.1 22.0 24.1 22.0 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 44.4 13.5 44.4 13.5 Exceptional operating costs 8.4 7.2 8.4 7.2 Share of associates other gains 2.6 0.2 2.6 0.2 Impairment of carrying value of associate 1.3 1.3 Other gains and losses: Pro t on sale of available-for-sale investments 2.0 0.2 2.0 0.2 Pro t on sale of property, plant and equipment 1.8 0.3 1.8 0.3 Pro t on sale of businesses 6.2 3.9 6.2 3.9 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 2.7 2.7 Recycled impairment loss of GCap Media plc 6.2 6.3 Pro t on deemed part disposal of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc 10.8 10.9 Pro t on sale and deemed disposal of joint ventures and associates 0.2 0.2 Pro t on sale of discontinued operations 0.1 0.1 Finance costs: Foreign exchange loss on tax equalisation arrangements 18.0 2.7 18.0 2.7 Foreign exchange loss on intra-group nancing 1.
2 1.2 Change in fair value of acquisition put options 0.8 1.0 0.8 1.0 Premium on repurchase of bonds 0.7 0.7 Tax: Share of tax in joint ventures and associates 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Pro t before exceptional operating costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, other gains and losses and exceptional nancing costs, taxation and minority interests 87.2 64.4 87.4 64.6 Adjust for: Deferred tax on intangible assets and goodwill 9.9 3.6 9.9 3.6 Current tax on foreign exchange on tax equalisation arrangements 18.0 2.6 18.0 2.6 Agreed open issues with tax authorities 6.3 7.0 6.3 7.0 Tax on other exceptional items 5.0 1.0 5.0 1.0 Interest of minority shareholders 0.3 1.0 0.3 1.1 Adjusted earnings per share before exceptional operating costs, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, other gains and losses and exceptional nancing costs after taxation and minority interests 47.7 49.2 47.9 49.3 www.
com 2008 100 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Continued 12 EARNINGS LOSS PER SHARE Continued The weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the year for the purpose of these calculations is as follows: 2008 2007 Number Number m m Number of Ordinary shares in issue 395.3 402.0 Shares held in Treasury 17.7 11.7 Basic earnings per share denominator 377.6 390.3 Effect of dilutive share options 0.7 Dilutive earnings per share denominator 377.6 391.0 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 13 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT At Fair value Foreign Other At beginning Cash hedging exchange non-cash end of year ow adjustments movements movements of year Note m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 25 70.4 30.7 5.6 45.3 Bank overdrafts 29 6.4 5.8 0.4 1.0 Net cash and cash equivalents 64.0 24.9 5.2 44.3 Debt due within one year 29 36.8 13.4 12.2 13.8 25.0 Debt due after one year Bonds 29 838.5 1.1 0.7 838.9 Bank loans 29 144.2 1.9 12.6 10.4 165.3 Net debt before effect of derivatives 955.5 9.6 1.1 4.8 23.5 984.9 Effect of derivatives on bank debt 5.1 35.9 1.1 29.7 Net debt 950.4 45.5 4.8 23.5 1,014.6 The net cash out ow of 24.9 million includes a cash out ow of 23.3 million in respect of operating exceptional items.
During the year the Group renegotiated its committed bank facilities which were due to expire in October 2009.
The Groups new committed facilities amount to 420.0 million, have maturities of 3 and 5 years and are unsecured.
Other non-cash movements in respect of debt due within one year arose following the vendors decision to take a loan note alternative to satisfy the deferred consideration balance on certain prior year acquisitions note 32 amounting to 13.1 million together with accrued interest on loan notes of 0.7 million.
Other non-cash movements in respect of bonds comprises the unwinding of premium of 1.0 million 2007 1.1 million offset by the amortisation of issue costs of 0.3 million 2007 0.3 million.
Other non-cash movements in respect of bank loans comprises accrued interest of 10.4 million 2007 9.9 million.
14 ANALYSIS OF MOVEMENTS IN CASH IN RESPECT OF ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS 2008 2007 Note m m Acquisitions Cash consideration including acquisition expenses of 0.2 million GLM 15 78.8 Cash consideration including acquisition expenses of 0.5 million 2007 2.4 million Others 15 14.8 288.7 Cash paid to settle deferred consideration in respect of acquisitions 32 14.2 29.6 Cash and cash equivalents acquired with subsidiaries 15 3.5 13.1 104.3 305.2 Cash paid in respect of deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions was mainly in respect of the national media division.
The businesses acquired during the year contributed 1.2 million to the Groups net operating cash ows with no amounts attributable to investing or nancing activities.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTN EO S T TE O T S T H O T E C H O E C NSO ON LS ID OA LT ID ED C ATEA D I SH F NCL OO MW S E ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 101 14 ANALYSIS OF MOVEMENTS IN CASH IN RESPECT OF ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Continued 2008 2007 Note m m Disposals Cash consideration net of disposal costs 16 63.6 41.8 Cash and cash equivalents disposed with subsidiaries 16 5.1 4.8 58.5 37.0 The businesses disposed of during the year contributed 8.0 million to the Groups net operating cash ows with no amounts attributable to investing or nancing activities.
15 SUMMARY OF THE EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS On 1st October 2007, the Group acquired the remaining 51% of the membership interests of George Little Management LLC GLM for cash consideration of 78.6 million US$155.0 million.
GLM owns and manages tradeshows for consumer goods in the US, serving industries as diverse as giftware, social stationery, home textiles, tabletop, gourmet house wares, contemporary furniture and wellness.
GLM is involved in the production of nearly 40 tradeshows in 15 cities across the US and Canada.
Fair value of net assets acquired: Accounting GLM at policy Fair value GLM at book value alignments adjustments fair value Note m m m m Goodwill 17 0.7 69.8 70.5 Intangible assets 18 100.1 100.1 Property, plant and equipment 19 0.8 0.8 Interests in associates 0.2 0.2 Prepaid show expenses 0.6 1.3 1.9 Trade and other receivables 1.8 1.8 Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 1.3 Trade and other payables 5.3 0.1 5.4 Deferred taxation 33 9.5 9.5 Net assets acquired 0.1 1.2 160.4 161.7 Cost of acquisition: Cash paid in Non-cash current period Total Note m m m Reclassi cation of investment in associate 20 55.9 55.9 Cash 78.6 78.6 Consideration at fair value 55.9 78.6 134.5 Directly attributable costs 0.2 0.2 Revaluation of previously held interest in associate on acquisition of control i 27.0 27.0 Total cost of acquisition 82.9 78.8 161.7 The principal fair value adjustments relate to intangible assets recognised relating to the exhibition brands, the related deferred tax liability and 69.8 million attributable to goodwill which represents future synergies.
The fair values above have been adjusted from those disclosed at the year end following due diligence work to identify and value the intangible assets acquired.
Since the acquisition took place on the first day of the financial period, Group revenues and pro t attributable to equity holders of the parent already include the full effect of the acquisition.
i The fair value adjustments include a credit to retained earnings of 27.0 million note 35.
This represents a revaluation of the Groups previously held interest in GLM on acquisition of control.
com 2008 102 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D C N AC SO H F ME S LOT W S ATE TM AT EE N M T C ENT C ontin ou ne tid nued 15 SUMMARY OF THE EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS Continued Other notable acquisitions completed during the period, the percentage of voting rights acquired, the dates of acquisition and the goodwill arising was as follows: Intangible % voting rights Date of Business Consideration xed assets Goodwill Name of acquisition acquired acquisition description paid acquired arising m m m Oil Careers 100% December 2007 Online recruitment 6.8 1.5 4.2 Enva Power 82% December 2007 Power trading data provider 8.5 3.3 6.7 Inframation 100% December 2007 Land, property and mapping data provider 5.4 1.3 5.4 Provisional fair value of net assets acquired with all other acquisitions: Provisional Book fair value Provisional value adjustments fair value Note m m m Goodwill 17 0.2 16.7 16.9 Intangible assets 18 9.5 9.5 Property, plant and equipment 19 0.1 0.1 Current assets 1.4 1.4 Cash and cash equivalents 2.2 2.2 Trade creditors and other payables 4.1 4.1 Tax 0.7 0.7 Deferred tax 33 0.2 2.8 3.0 Net assets liabilities acquired 1.1 23.4 22.3 Minority share of net liabilities acquired 0.2 0.2 Group share of net assets liabilities acquired 1.3 23.4 22.1 Cost of acquisitions: Cash paid in Non-cash current period Total Note m m m Deferred consideration 32 7.5 7.5 Cash 14.3 14.3 Consideration at fair value 7.5 14.3 21.8 Directly attributable costs 0.5 0.5 Total cost of acquisition 7.5 14.8 22.3 If all acquisitions had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for the year would have been 2,314.4 million and Group pro t attributable to equity holders of the parent would have been 0.3 million.
This information takes into account the amortisation of acquired intangible assets for a full year, together with related income tax effects but excludes any pre-acquisition finance costs and should not be viewed as indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred if the acquisitions had actually been completed on the first day of the financial year.
Total pro t attributable to equity holders of the parent since the date of acquisition for companies acquired during the period amounted to 0.3 million.
The aggregate consideration for these and other businesses was 157.0 million, of which 93.6 million was paid in cash during the year, 55.9 million transferred from investments in associates and an estimated amount of 7.5 million payable in the form of deferred consideration, depending upon trading results.
This deferred consideration has been discounted back to current values in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
In each case, the Group has used acquisition accounting to account for the purchase.
Goodwill arising on the acquisitions is principally attributable to the anticipated pro tability relating to the distribution of the Groups products in new and existing markets and anticipated operating synergies from the business combinations.
Purchase of additional shares in controlled entities 2008 2007 m m Cash consideration including acquisition expenses of 0.1 million 2007 nil 36.3 7.1 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTN EO S T TE O T S T H O T E C H O E C NSO ON LS ID OA LT ID ED C ATEA D I SH F NCL OO MW S E ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 103 15 SUMMARY OF THE EFFECTS OF ACQUISITIONS Continued During the period the Group acquired additional shares in controlled entities amounting to 36.3 million 2007 7.1 million.
This includes 26.7 million acquiring a further 5.4% of the issued Ordinary share capital of Euromoney.
Under the Groups accounting policy for the purchase of shares in controlled entities, no adjustment has been recorded to the fair value of assets and liabilities already held on the Balance Sheet.
The difference between the cost of the additional shares, goodwill arising and the carrying value of the minority share of net assets is adjusted directly in equity.
The adjustment to equity in the period was a charge of 6.4 million 2007 nil.
16 SUMMARY OF THE EFFECTS OF DISPOSALS The principal disposals completed during the year, the proceeds received and dates of disposal were as follows: Date m Dolphin March 2008 10.3 British Pathe May 2008 6.3 Hobsons Europe July 2008 31.1 North American Consumer Home Shows July 2008 24.5 The impact of disposals on net assets was: Note m Goodwill 17 29.6 Intangible assets 18 4.5 Property, plant and equipment 19 0.4 Trade and other receivables 5.1 Cash at bank and in hand 14 5.1 Trade creditors and other payables 4.6 Deferred tax 0.1 Net assets disposed 40.2 Pro t on disposal of businesses 6 23.4 Satis ed by: Cash received 14 63.6 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 17 GOODWILL Goodwill Note m Cost At 1st October, 2006 710.3 Additions 277.3 Reduction on recognition of deferred tax asset for pre-acquisition losses 4.4 Adjustment to previous year estimate of deferred consideration 9.4 Disposals 8.1 Exchange adjustment 3.5 At 30th September, 2007 962.2 Additions 15 60.4 Additions in relation to purchase of additional interests in controlled entities 15 24.3 Revaluation of previously held interest in associate on acquisition of control 15, 35 27.0 Reduction on recognition of deferred tax asset for pre-acquisition losses 3 2.8 Adjustment to previous year estimate of deferred consideration 32 2.9 Disposals 16 44.5 Adjustment in respect of prior period acquisition 2.1 Exchange adjustment 40.8 At 28th September, 2008 1,066.6 www.
com 2008 104 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 17 GOODWILL Continued Goodwill Note m Accumulated impairment losses At 1st October, 2006 34.8 Impairment 3 36.1 Exchange adjustment 3.9 At 30th September, 2007 74.8 Impairment 3 130.5 Disposals 16 14.9 Exchange adjustment 2.7 At 28th September, 2008 193.1 Net book value 2007 887.4 Net book value 2008 873.5 The only large single item of goodwill included in the net book value above relates to BCA, a business within Metal Bulletin, which has a carrying value of 129.7 million 2007 113.5 million.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill might be impaired.
Intangible assets are tested separately from goodwill only where impairment indicators exist.
The Group has no intangible assets with inde nite lives.
Goodwill impairment losses recognised in the year were 130.5 million.
When testing for impairment, the recoverable amounts for all the Groups cash-generating units CGUs are measured at their value in use by discounting future expected cash ows, typically over periods of 20 years or less.
These calculations use cash ow projections based on management approved budgets and projections which re ect managements current experience and future expectations of the markets in which the CGU operates.
Risk adjusted discount rates used by the Group in its impairment tests range from 8.7% to 13.5%, the choice of rates depending on the market and maturity of the CGU: the growth rates used in the projections range between 0% and 5.0% and vary with managements view of the CGUs market position, maturity of the relevant market and do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market in which it operates.
Further disclosures in accordance with paragraph 134 of IAS 36, Impairment of assets, are not provided as the Group does not hold any individual goodwill item relating to a CGU that is signi cant, which the Group considers to be 15% of the total, in comparison with the Groups total carrying value of goodwill.
The impairment charge is analysed by major CGU as follows: Intangible Goodwill asset Discount Reason for CGU Division impairment impairment rate used impairment Note m m East Surrey and Sussex News Local media 12.3 4.7 10.0% Declining pro tability Blackmore Vale Local media 11.1 0.4 9.5% Declining pro tability Kent Regional News Local media 5.0 6.6 10.5% Declining pro tability Leek Post and Times Local media 2.4 10.0% Declining pro tability Central Independent News Local media 21.2 10.5% Declining pro tability Wessex News Local media 7.3 10.0% Declining pro tability California Gift Show Exhibitions 18.1 9.5% Declining pro tability GLM i Exhibitions 41.4 9.5% Decl ining pro tability and double count of goodwill from transition to IFRS Western Exhibitors Exhibitions 9.0 9.5% Declining pro tability Allegran National media 7.9 13.5% Declining pro tability Other Exhibitions 8.2 4.7 Declining pro tability National media 1.1 Declining pro tability Local media 0.7 Declining pro tability ii Euromoney 5.7 Declining pro tability 133.3 34.5 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 105 17 GOODWILL Continued i Included within the exhibitions sector charge is an amount of 41.4 million relating to George Little Management LLC GLM note 15.
GLM was an associate on October 3rd, 2004, the Groups transition date to IFRS.
On transition to IFRS, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business Combinations, retrospectively to past business combinations and the carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and other assets and liabilities associated with the Groups stakes in its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
As a result of the application of IFRS 3 on acquiring control of GLM a double count of goodwill in respect of the Groups acquisition of its initial 25% stake has occurred as under UK GAAP the majority of this stake was attributed to goodwill and no separately identi able assets were recorded.
As a result of this double count, the Group has been required to record an impairment charge of 14.4 million immediately following acquisition of control and this is included in the charge for the year.
ii Following a re-assessment of the recoverability of tax losses acquired with Metal Bulletin a reduction in the carrying value of goodwill of 2.8 million 2007 nil within Euromoney, nil 2007 3.6 million in the business information division and nil 2007 0.8 million in the national media division on recognition of deferred tax assets for pre-acquisition losses note 17 has been recorded.
In accordance with IAS 12, Income taxes, the Group is required to reduce its previously capitalised goodwill to offset the recognition of this deferred tax asset.
The goodwill and intangibles impairment charge recognised in the prior year was 48.3 million.
Of this charge, 10.2 million relates to the national media division for Loot following continued decreases in advertising and circulation revenues and 13.0 million for Simply Switch due to poor trading, 4.4 million to the local media division in relation to a classi ed paid-for newspaper and 19.8 million relating to the exhibition division in relation to consumer shows in the USA.
In addition to the prior year impairment charge of 36.1 million, a reduction in cost of 4.4 million was recorded upon recognition of deferred tax assets relating to pre-acquisition losses.
com 2008 106 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 18 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Continued Publishing Customer rights Radio related Computer and titles licences Brands databases software Other Total Note m m m m m m m Accumulated amortisation At 1st October, 2006 218.9 48.8 20.8 6.5 29.4 0.2 324.6 Analysis reclassi cations 5.7 5.5 0.1 0.6 1.6 1.3 Charge for the year 27.1 9.1 22.5 13.7 9.0 0.8 82.2 Impairment 3 0.2 8.9 0.4 2.7 12.2 Disposals 0.7 1.3 2.0 Exchange adjustment 4.9 0.7 0.5 0.4 0.1 3.4 At 30th September, 2007 240.5 68.3 50.7 20.7 37.8 2.4 420.4 Analysis reclassi cations 2.5 2.5 Charge for the year 26.7 10.1 27.4 13.6 11.0 1.5 90.3 Impairment 3, 17 19.7 12.2 0.1 2.5 34.5 Disposals 16 4.8 1.6 0.2 2.3 8.9 Transfer from to property, plant and equipment 19 0.3 0.8 0.5 Exchange adjustment 2.3 2.1 3.2 1.7 1.8 11.1 At 28th September, 2008 284.1 80.5 91.9 38.4 49.1 3.9 547.9 Net book value 2007 201.3 150.6 121.0 87.3 30.3 2.2 592.7 Net book value 2008 166.1 146.3 191.0 79.1 39.9 7.6 630.0 The methodologies applied to the Groups cash-generating units CGUs when testing for impairment and details of the above impairment charge, are as set out in note 17.
The carrying values of the Groups larger intangible assets are further analysed as follows: 2008 2007 2008 2007 Remaining Remaining Carrying Carrying amortisation amortisation value value period period m m Years Years GLM New York International Gift Fair brand 83.1 19.0 Metal Bulletin mastheads 82.4 90.6 27.8 28.8 Nova 96.9 radio licence 43.6 45.4 12.5 13.5 Nova 106.9 radio licence 29.8 30.4 16.5 17.5 Trinity Mirror Southern Titles 22.9 36.4 18.8 19.8 Vega 95.3 radio licence 22.6 22.9 16.8 17.8 Metal Bulletin customer relationships 21.7 22.4 13.4 14.4 Associated Mediabase software 21.7 18.7 1.9 1.7 Nova 100 radio licence 20.7 21.5 13.2 14.2 Vega 91.5 radio licence 16.3 16.6 17.0 18.0 Genscape intellectual property 14.6 14.0 17.5 18.5 Evanta brand 12.6 12.2 12.8 13.8 Perex title 10.2 12.1 3.8 4.8 Allegran brand 8.4 11.9 2.4 3.4 Institutional Investor title 8.3 9.2 9.0 10.0 Primelocation brand 5.4 7.8 2.3 3.3 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 107 19 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Long Short Freehold leasehold leasehold Plant and properties properties properties equipment Total Note m m m m m Cost At 1st October, 2006 138.8 76.3 50.5 701.0 966.6 Owned by subsidiaries acquired 1.8 0.6 0.2 1.6 4.2 Additions 10.9 1.5 3.4 58.4 74.2 Disposals 1.6 0.1 1.0 37.0 39.7 Owned by subsidiaries disposed 0.2 6.6 6.8 Reclassi cations 10.1 10.1 4.6 4.6 Exchange adjustment 0.4 0.1 0.2 1.1 0.4 At 30th September, 2007 140.2 88.5 57.7 711.7 998.1 Owned by subsidiaries acquired 15 0.3 0.6 0.9 Additions 3.0 0.8 1.3 52.0 57.1 Disposals 2.5 1.5 38.9 42.9 Owned by subsidiaries disposed 16 2.6 2.6 Transfers to intangible xed assets 18 2.8 2.8 Reclassi cations 10.5 10.1 0.4 Exchange adjustment 0.6 0.2 0.5 9.3 10.2 At 28th September, 2008 151.8 79.0 58.3 728.9 1,018.0 Long Short Freehold leasehold leasehold Plant and properties properties properties equipment Total Note m m m m m Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1st October, 2006 21.9 32.2 30.3 368.5 452.9 Charge for the year 2.4 1.9 3.2 51.5 59.0 Impairment 6.0 6.0 Disposals 0.2 0.1 0.6 34.0 34.9 Owned by subsidiaries disposed 0.1 3.9 4.0 Reclassi cations 0.3 0.3 Exchange adjustment 0.1 1.7 1.6 At 30th September, 2007 23.9 34.3 32.8 386.4 477.4 Charge for the year 3 3.4 2.3 3.6 53.8 63.1 Impairment i 7.4 7.4 Disposals 0.4 1.3 32.6 34.3 Owned by subsidiaries disposed 16 2.2 2.2 Transfers to intangible xed assets 18 0.5 0.5 Reclassi cations 0.3 0.3 Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.2 4.8 5.2 At 28th September, 2008 27.4 36.3 35.3 417.1 516.1 Net book value 2007 116.3 54.2 24.9 325.3 520.7 Net book value 2008 124.4 42.7 23.0 311.8 501.9 i Included within exceptional operating costs is an impairment charge of 7.4 million 2007 6.0 million relating to printing equipment within the national media division.
These assets are now considered obsolete due to excess capacity within the Group.
com 2008 108 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 19 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Continued The following table analyses assets in the course of construction included in property, plant and equipment above.
Long Short Freehold leasehold leasehold Plant and properties properties properties equipment Total Note m m m m m Assets in the course of construction Cost and net book value At 1st October, 2006 29.3 0.4 42.7 72.4 Projects completed 29.3 0.1 24.7 54.1 Additions 0.5 19.1 19.6 At 30th September, 2007 0.3 0.5 37.1 37.9 Projects completed i 0.2 0.5 26.7 27.4 Additions 0.5 0.1 6.2 6.8 At 28th September, 2008 0.6 0.1 16.6 17.3 i The projects completed during the year mainly relate to the Groups new colour printing facility which became available for use and has been transferred out of assets under construction.
20 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Share of postacquisition Cost of retained shares Loans reserves Total m m m m Joint Ventures At 1st October, 2006 31.0 4.3 16.4 18.9 Correct misallocation in prior years 7.8 7.8 Additions 1.1 1.1 Loan repayment 0.3 0.3 Share of retained reserves 0.4 0.4 Exchange adjustment 4.5 2.1 2.3 0.1 At 30th September, 2007 18.7 7.2 6.7 19.2 Additions 6.3 6.3 Loan repayment 1.1 1.1 Share of retained reserves 2.6 2.6 Exchange adjustment 0.6 0.1 0.5 0.2 At 28th September, 2008 25.6 6.2 9.8 22.0 Summary aggregated financial information for the Groups joint ventures, extracted on a 100% basis from the joint ventures own financial information as at 28th September, 2008 is set out below: 2008 2008 2008 2008 Operating Total Pro t loss Revenue pro t loss expenses for the period m m m m Business information 0.8 0.8 Exhibitions 1.4 0.4 1.0 0.4 National media 0.8 8.3 9.1 8.3 Local media 1.8 1.1 1.0 0.8 Radio 15.7 4.3 12.9 2.8 20.5 2.5 24.8 4.3 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 109 20 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Continued 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Non-current Current Current Non-current Net assets assets assets liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m Business information 0.4 0.3 1.3 1.2 Exhibitions 1.4 0.9 0.5 National media 3.9 1.7 2.4 3.2 Local media 0.2 1.0 0.1 1.1 Radio 29.9 4.9 2.2 13.3 19.3 34.0 9.4 5.9 14.6 22.9 2007 2007 2007 2007 Operating Total Pro t for Revenue pro t expenses the period m m m m Business information 0.8 0.8 Euromoney 0.9 0.2 0.7 0.2 Exhibitions 3.3 1.1 2.1 1.2 Local media 0.9 0.6 0.3 0.6 Radio 12.4 3.9 11.6 0.8 18.3 5.8 15.5 2.8 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 Non-current Current Current Non-current Net assets assets assets liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m Business information 0.3 0.2 1.4 1.3 Exhibitions 1.3 0.1 1.2 Local media 0.5 0.1 0.4 Radio 31.3 4.1 1.4 14.5 19.5 31.3 6.2 1.8 15.9 19.8 At 28th September, 2008 there were no material contingent liabilities or capital commitments in respect of the Groups joint ventures 2007 None.
Information on principal joint ventures from the latest available accounts all incorporated in Great Britain and registered and operating in England and Wales unless otherwise stated.
Principal Year Description Group activity ended of holding interest % Unlisted Mail Today Newspapers Pvt.
Limited incorporated and Publisher 30th operating in India of classi ed September, publications 2008 Ordinary 26.0% Brisbane FM Radio Pty Limited incorporated and Independent 31st operating in Australia radio December, operator 2007 Ordinary 50.0% DMG Radio Perth Pty Limited incorporated and Independent 30th operating in Australia radio September, operator 2008 Ordinary 50.0% www.
com 2008 110 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 20 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Continued Share of post acquisition Cost of retained shares Loans reserves Total Note m m m m Associates At 1st October, 2006 107.8 12.4 52.1 68.1 Additions 11.3 2.1 13.4 Loan repayment 4.7 4.7 Share of retained reserves 4.4 4.4 Transfer to investment in subsidiaries 20.4 15.1 5.3 Exchange adjustment 0.5 3.5 0.6 2.4 At 30th September, 2007 99.2 6.3 40.8 64.7 Correct misallocation in prior years 9.8 0.1 9.9 Additions 6.3 0.9 7.2 Loan repayment 3.7 3.7 Share of retained reserves 7.8 7.8 Provided during the year 4.8 4.8 Transfer to investment in subsidiaries 15 55.8 0.1 55.9 Disposals 9.5 0.1 2.3 7.3 Exchange adjustment 2.3 0.4 0.1 2.6 At 28th September, 2008 27.9 3.7 21.0 10.6 i The reallocation above corrects previous misallocation between cost of shares and share of post acquisition retained reserves.
Summary aggregated financial information for the Groups associates, extracted on a 100% basis from the associates own financial information as at 28th September, 2008 is set out below: 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Operating Operating Pro t loss Pro t for Revenue Revenue pro t loss pro t for the period the period m m m m m m Business information 5.2 5.8 0.6 1.4 0.4 Euromoney 2.2 2.3 0.8 1.6 0.6 1.6 Exhibitions 33.9 14.1 9.6 National media 101.9 195.1 4.0 1.8 21.3 Local media 4.8 1.7 0.1 0.1 0.1 114.1 238.8 3.7 19.0 21.6 11.2 Summary aggregated financial information for the Groups associates, extracted on a 100% basis from the associates own financial accounts as at 28th September, 2008 is set out below: 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Non-current Current Total Current Non-current Total Net assets assets assets assets liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m m m Business information 0.9 4.1 5.0 3.3 3.3 1.7 Euromoney 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.4 National media 20.7 36.0 56.7 56.8 8.3 65.1 8.4 Local media 1.0 2.1 3.1 0.9 0.9 2.2 22.6 42.8 65.4 61.2 8.3 69.5 4.1 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 111 20 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES Continued 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 Non-current Current Total Current Non-current Total Net assets assets assets assets liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m m m Business information 0.8 5.0 5.8 3.1 3.1 2.7 Euromoney 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.3 0.3 Exhibitions 4.6 9.1 13.7 4.5 0.1 4.6 9.1 National media 21.0 54.2 75.2 55.8 30.5 86.3 11.1 Local media 0.4 0.8 1.2 0.1 0.1 1.1 26.8 69.7 96.5 63.8 30.6 94.4 2.1 Information on principal associates from the latest available accounts all incorporated and operating in Great Britain unless otherwise stated.
Principal Year Description Group activity ended of holding interest % Unlisted Independent Television News Limited Independent TV news 31st December, Ordinary 20.0% provider 2007 A-Z Agentia fide Publicitate S. A.
Publisher of 31st December, incorporated and operating in Romania classi ed publications 2007 Ordinary 50.0% Joint ventures and associates have been accounted for under the equity method using unaudited accounts to 28th September, 2008.
21 NON-CURRENT ASSETS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS Listed Unlisted Total Note m m m At 1st October, 2006 68.4 4.8 73.2 Additions 1.4 0.6 2.0 Disposals 1.8 1.8 Transfer to subsidiaries in relation to Metal Bulletin 21.6 21.6 Fair value movement in the year 35 0.2 0.2 Exchange adjustment 0.5 0.2 0.3 At 30th September, 2007 48.9 3.4 52.3 Additions 15.9 15.9 Disposals 47.4 0.1 47.5 Impairment charge 6 1.5 8.6 10.1 Fair value movement in the year 0.1 0.1 Exchange adjustment 0.8 0.8 At 28th September, 2008 11.3 11.3 The investments above represent listed equity securities and unlisted securities, which are recorded as non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year, in which case they are recorded as current assets.
The investments in listed securities have no xed maturity or coupon rate and the fair value of these investments is based on quoted market prices.
Since there is no active market upon which they are traded, other unlisted equity securities are recorded at cost less provision for impairment, as their fair values cannot be reliably measured.
com 2008 112 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 21 NON-CURRENT ASSETS AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE INVESTMENTS Continued Available-for-sale investments are analysed as follows: 2008 2007 Note m m Listed GCap Media plc i 48.9 48.9 Unlisted Spot Runner Inc. 7.5 Other 3.8 3.4 11.3 3.4 11.3 52.3 Information on principal investments, taken from the latest published accounts incorporated in Great Britain unless stated otherwise is as follows: Class of Group Note holding interest % GCap Media plc Ordinary 14.3% The Press Association Limited Ordinary 15.6% Spot Runner Inc. incorporated and operating in the USA ii Common stock 5.0% i The Group disposed of its investment in GCap Media plc GCap following GCaps take over by Global Radio in June 2008. ii During the period the Group acquired a 5.0% holding in Spot Runner Inc, an advertising services company, for consideration of $30.5m 15.4m.
This investment has subsequently been impaired by $16.6m 8.4m in light of its current trading performance.
Currency analysis of available-for-sale investments 2008 2007 m m Sterling 1.5 50.3 US dollar 9.2 1.7 Australian dollar 0.4 0.1 Other 0.2 0.2 11.3 52.3 Interest analysis of available-for-sale investments 2008 2007 m m Non-interest bearing 11.3 52.3 22 INVENTORIES 2008 2007 m m Raw materials and consumables 15.2 13.3 Work in progress 12.1 12.0 Finished goods 0.3 0.2 27.6 25.5 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 113 23 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2008 2007 m m Current assets Trade receivables 368.7 345.4 Allowance for doubtful debts 17.7 14.4 351.0 331.0 Prepayments and accrued income 79.8 68.6 Other debtors 26.1 29.9 456.9 429.5 Non-current assets Trade receivables 0.2 0.1 Prepayments and accrued income 0.6 0.8 Other debtors 7.5 3.9 8.3 4.8 465.2 434.3 Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts 2008 2007 m m At 30th September, 2007 14.4 13.1 Impairment losses recognised 8.2 6.4 Amounts written off as uncollectible 4.3 3.1 Amounts recovered during the year 1.3 2.0 Owned by subsidiaries disposed 0.1 Exchange adjustment 0.8 At 28th September, 2008 17.7 14.4 Ageing of impaired trade receivables 2008 2007 m m 31 60 days 1.5 1.7 61 90 days 0.6 0.3 91 120 days 0.7 0.6 121 days 12.1 9.3 Total 14.9 11.9 Included in the Groups trade receivables are debtors with a carrying value of 183.5 million 2007 143.7 million which are past due as at 28th September, 2008 for which no allowance has been made.
The Group is not aware of any deterioration in the credit quality of these customers and considers that the amounts are still recoverable.
Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables 2008 2007 m m 1 30 days overdue 119.8 94.2 31 60 days overdue 38.6 19.2 61 90 days overdue 11.0 12.3 91 days overdue 14.1 18.0 Total 183.5 143.7 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
com 2008 114 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 24 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The following businesses were acquired with a view to resale.
In December 2007, the Group received a final payment of 0.2 million from the sale of Energy Information Centre Limited, following agreement of their completion accounts.
There is no related tax charge.
Energy Information Centre Limited was sold in April 2007 and was treated as a discontinued operation up to that date.
In May 2008, the Group received a final payment of 25,000 from the sale of the business and assets of Systematics International Limited, following agreement of their completion accounts.
The business and net assets of Systematics International Limited was sold in May 2007 and was treated as a discontinued operation up to that date.
The Groups income statement includes the following results from discontinued operations: 2008 2007 m m Revenue 5.0 Expenses 4.2 Operating pro t 0.8 Pro t on sale of businesses 0.2 Pro t before tax 0.2 0.8 Attributable tax expense 0.3 Net pro t attributable to discontinued operations 0.2 0.5 25 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2008 2007 Note m m Cash and cash equivalents 45.3 70.4 Unsecured bank overdrafts 29 1.0 6.4 Cash and cash equivalents in the cash ow statement 13 44.3 64.0 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents by currency Sterling 7.7 19.2 US dollar 13.0 24.6 Australian dollar 2.4 Canadian dollar 1.7 0.8 Euro 4.2 8.2 Other 18.7 15.2 45.3 70.4 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents by interest type Floating rate interest 45.3 70.4 The fair values of cash and cash equivalents equate to their book values.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 115 26 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2008 2007 m m Current liabilities Trade payables 100.8 83.4 Interest payable 32.7 33.5 Other taxation and social security 34.6 40.6 Other creditors 36.2 33.8 Accruals 219.5 243.2 Deferred income 226.4 186.5 650.2 621.0 Non-current liabilities Other creditors 1.1 0.7 651.3 621.7 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
com 2008 116 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 29 BORROWINGS Continued The Groups borrowings are analysed by currency and interest rate type as follows: Sterling US dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m 2008 Fixed rate interest 838.9 838.9 Floating rate interest 57.9 133.4 191.3 896.8 133.4 1,030.2 2007 Fixed rate interest 838.5 838.5 Floating rate interest 113.3 71.8 2.1 0.2 187.4 951.8 71.8 2.1 0.2 1,025.9 The Groups borrowings, analysed by currency and interest rate type after taking account of all derivative instruments are as follows: Sterling US dollar Australian dollar Euro Other Total m m m m m m 2008 Fixed rate interest 488.9 310.0 19.0 817.9 Floating rate interest 64.4 147.9 212.3 553.3 457.9 19.0 1,030.2 2007 Fixed rate interest 489.8 319.0 18.7 827.5 Floating rate interest 68.1 127.6 0.4 2.1 0.2 198.4 557.9 446.6 19.1 2.1 0.2 1,025.9 Committed Borrowing Facilities During the year the Group renegotiated its committed bank facilities which were due to expire in October 2009.
The new committed bank facilities amount to 420.0 million, have maturities of 3 and 5 years and are unsecured.
The Groups bank loans bear interest charged at LIBOR plus a margin based on the Groups ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Additionally each facility contains a covenant based on a minimum interest cover ratio.
EBITDA for these purposes is fide ned as the aggregate of the Groups consolidated operating pro t before share of results of joint ventures and associates before deducting depreciation, amortisation and impairment of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets, before exceptional items and before interest and finance charges.
There have been no breaches to these covenants during the period.
The following undrawn committed borrowing facilities were available to the Group in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met: 2008 2007 m m Expiring in one year or less 120.0 Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 5.7 Expiring in more than two years but not more than three years 84.5 119.5 Expiring in more than four years but not more than five years 157.3 247.5 239.5 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 117 29 BORROWINGS Continued Bonds The nominal, carrying and fair values of the Groups bonds and the coupons payable are as follows: 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Coupon Fair value Fair value Carrying value Carrying value Nominal value Nominal value % m m m m m m 2013 Bond 7.5 276.8 315.9 299.9 299.0 300.0 300.0 2018 Bond 5.75 129.9 165.3 172.8 173.1 175.0 175.0 2021 Bond 10.0 157.9 204.5 168.4 168.6 156.4 156.4 2027 Bond 6.375 138.4 198.7 197.8 197.8 200.0 200.0 703.0 884.4 838.9 838.5 831.4 831.4 The Groups bonds have been adjusted from their nominal values to take account of the premia, direct issue costs, discounts and movements in hedged risks.
The issue costs, premia and discounts are being amortised over the expected lives of the bonds using the effective interest method.
The unamortised issue costs amount to 3.4 million 2007 3.7 million, the unamortised premia 15.2 million 2007 16.2 million.
The fair values of the Groups bonds has been calculated on the basis of quoted market rates.
Loan notes The Group has issued loan notes which attract interest at rates of approximately LIBID to LIBID minus 1%.
The loan notes are repayable at the option of the loan note holders with a six month notice period and are treated as current liabilities.
30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to credit, interest rate and currency risks arising in the normal course of business.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposures to uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates but are not employed for speculative purposes.
Full details of the Groups treasury policies are set out in the Financial and Treasury Review on pages 36 to 41.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital, fide ned as equity shareholders funds and net borrowings, to ensure that entities in the Group are able to continue as going concerns for the foreseeable future.
Debt management The Group borrows on an unsecured basis and arranges its debt to ensure an appropriate maturity pro le.
The Groups principal sources of funding are the long term sterling bond market and committed bank facilities.
The Group is mindful of the need to maintain its credit rating, currently BBB and ensures it has suf cient committed bank facilities in order to meet short term business requirements, after taking into account the Groups holding of cash and cash equivalents together with any distribution restrictions which exist.
The Group aims to maximise the term and exibility of indebtedness and retain headroom in the form of undrawn committed bank facilities of approximately 100.0 million.
Additionally, the Group arranges its currency borrowings in order that they are in proportion to the ratio of earnings in that particular currency to total Group earnings.
The Directors consider that the Groups bond issuances together with its bank facilities will be suf cient to cover the likely medium-term cash requirements of the Group.
Associates, joint ventures and other investments in general arrange and maintain their own nancing and funding requirements.
In all cases such nancing is non-recourse to the Company.
The Groups internal target of Net Debt to EBITDA cover is 2.5 times.
Cash and liquidity risk management The Group monitors cash balances and ensures that suf cient resources are available to meet entities operational requirements.
Short-term money market deposits are used to manage liquidity whilst maximising the rate of return on cash resources, giving due consideration to credit risk.
Market risk management The Groups primary market risks are interest rate uctuations and exchange rate movements.
Interest rate risk management The Group has an internal target of at least six times EBITDA to net interest.
The Groups interest rate exposure management policy is aimed at reducing the exposure of the consolidated businesses to changes in interest rates.
Group policy is to have 70% to 80% of interest exposures xed with the balance oating.
This is achieved by issuing xed rate sterling bond debt and entering into derivative contracts that economically swap xed rate interest into oating rate.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
The derivatives in place to meet Group policy are as follows: www.
com 2008 118 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Continued i Fixed to oating swaps hedging a portion of the Groups bonds: Changes in the fair value of the swaps are recognised in the income statement and at the same time the carrying value of the hedged bonds is adjusted for movements in the hedged risk to the extent effective and those adjustments are also recognised in the income statement.
These interest rate swaps amount to 75.0 million 2007 75.0 million with the Group paying oating rates of between 5.38% and 5.85% 2007 4.71% and 4.76%.
ii Cross currency xed to xed interest rate swaps.
These amounted to 255.5 million US$485.0 million 2007 255.5 million US$485.0 million resulting in the Group paying xed US dollar interest at rates of between 4.40% and 6.07% 2007 4.40% and 6.07%, 18.8 million AUS$45.0 million 2007 18.8 million AUS$45.0 million with the Group paying xed Australian dollar interest at rates of between 6.15% and 6.22% 2007 6.15% and 6.22%.
iii The Group also had a number of outstanding interest rate caps.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and forward foreign exchange contracts represent the replacement costs calculated using market rates of interest and exchange at 28th September, 2008.
The fair value of long-term borrowings has been calculated by discounting expected future cash ows at market rates.
Foreign exchange rate risk management Translation exposures arise on the earnings and net assets of business operations in entities with functional currencies other than that of the parent company.
The net asset exposures are economically hedged, to a signi cant extent, by a policy of denominating borrowings in currencies where signi cant translation exposures exist, most notably US dollars.
The Group also designates currency swaps and forward contracts as net investment hedges, hedging the Groups overseas investments.
Credit risk management The Groups principal credit risk relates to its trade and other receivables and non-performance by counterparties to financial instrument contracts.
Trade and other receivables The groups customer base is diversi ed geographically and by division with customers generally of a good financial standing.
Before accepting any new customers, the Group assesses the potential customers credit quality and sets credit limits by customer.
The average credit period is 65 days 2007 63 days.
The Group considers the credit risk of trade receivables to be low, although the Group remains vigilant in the current economic climate.
The Group reserves the right to charge interest on overdue receivables, although the Group does not hold collateral over any trade receivable balances.
The Group makes an allowance for bad and doubtful debts speci c to individual debts.
This provision is reviewed regularly in conjunction with a detailed analysis of historic payment pro les and past default experience.
The Groups receivables are stated net of allowances for doubtful debts and allowances for impairment are made where appropriate.
Institutional counterparty risk The Group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign exchange risks, described above, by the use of financial instruments.
As a result, credit risk arises from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to those financial instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal amount being hedged.
The Group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Group policy is to have no more than 20.0 million deposited or at risk with any AA counterparty, 10.0 million for A rated counterparties.
Credit risk is controlled by monitoring the credit quality of these counterparties, principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and of the amounts outstanding with each of them.
The Group has no signi cant concentration of risk with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The credit risk on short term deposits and derivative financial instruments is considered low since the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 119 30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Continued At the Balance Sheet date the Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows: 2008 2007 m m Expiring in one year or less Trade and other receivables 377.1 360.9 Bank deposits 45.3 70.4 Derivative financial instruments 14.5 30.5 Expiring in more than one year Trade and other receivables 7.7 4.0 444.6 465.8 Fair value hedges The Groups policy is to use interest rate swaps to convert a proportion of its xed rate debt to oating rates in order to hedge the interest rate risk with changes in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in the income statement for the period together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Gains and losses on the borrowings and related derivatives designated as fair value hedges included in the income statement for the year ended 28th September, 2008 were: At Fair value At 30th September, movement 28th September, 2007 gain loss 2008 m m m Sterling interest rate swaps 5.3 1.1 4.2 Sterling debt 5.3 1.1 4.2 Total Cash ow hedges The Group enters into cash ow hedges using two types of derivatives: xed to xed cross currency interest rate swaps and forward exchange derivatives which x the exchange rate on a portion of future currency expenditure.
All cash ow hedges were effective throughout the year ended 28th September, 2008.
Net investment hedges The Group enters into forward currency sales and cross currency swaps to hedge the Groups investment in foreign operations.
All net investment hedges were effective throughout the year ended 28th September, 2008.
Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting represent forward contracts which provide a gain or loss equivalent to income tax payable or receivable on foreign exchange gains or losses incurred when intra group balances are translated to the closing rate at the year end.
These contracts Tax Equalisation Swaps are marked to market with the movement in fair value taken to income.
Tax Equalisation Swaps are not capable of being designated as hedging instruments under IAS 39.
The Groups derivative financial instruments, other than acquisition option commitments, and their maturity pro les are summarised as follows: Derivative financial assets: Derivatives not Net qualifying Derivative Fair value Cash ow investment for hedge financial hedges hedges hedges accounting assets m m m m m 2008 Within one year 0.1 5.1 8.4 13.6 Between one and two years 0.3 0.3 Over five years 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.6 0.9 0.1 5.4 9.0 14.5 www.
com 2008 120 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Continued Derivative financial assets continued : Derivatives not Net qualifying Derivative Fair value Cash ow investment for hedge financial hedges hedges hedges accounting assets m m m m m 2007 Within one year 0.3 10.0 5.8 16.1 Between one and two years 1.5 1.5 Over five years 12.2 0.7 12.9 12.2 2.2 14.4 0.3 22.2 8.0 30.5 Derivative financial liabilities: Derivatives not Net qualifying Derivative Fair value Cash ow investment for hedge financial hedges hedges hedges accounting liabilities m m m m m 2008 Within one year 4.6 3.2 26.0 33.8 Between one and two years 3.6 3.6 Between two and five years 1.4 3.8 9.9 15.1 Over five years 3.3 16.6 19.9 4.7 7.4 26.5 38.6 4.7 12.0 29.7 26.0 72.4 2007 Within one year 0.6 1.3 2.9 4.8 Between two and five years 0.9 0.9 Over five years 5.8 1.4 7.2 5.8 2.3 8.1 5.8 0.6 3.6 2.9 12.9 Sensitivity analysis In managing the Groups interest rate and currency risks, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short term uctuations.
However, changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates may have an impact on the Groups results.
At 28th September, 2008, it is estimated that an increase of 1.0% in interest rates would have increased the Groups finance costs by 3.3 million 2007 6.4 million.
There would have been no effect on amounts recognised directly in equity.
This sensitivity has been calculated by applying the interest rate change to the Groups variable rate borrowings, net of any interest rate swaps, at the year end date.
At 28th September, 2008, it is estimated that a decrease of 1.0% in interest rates would have decreased the Groups finance costs by 3.3 million 2007 6.6 million.
This sensitivity has been calculated by applying the interest rate change to the Groups variable rate borrowings, net of any interest rate swaps, as at the year end date.
At 28th September, 2008, it is estimated that a 10.0% strengthening of sterling against the US dollar would have reduced the net loss taken to equity by 32.5 million 2007 31.8 million and increased the net loss taken to income by 2.3 million 2007 nil.
A 10.0% weakening of sterling against the US dollar would have increased the net loss taken to equity by 41.8 million 2007 42.8 million and decreased the net loss taken to income by 2.8 million 2007 nil.
This sensitivity has been calculated by applying the foreign exchange change to the Groups financial instruments which are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates.
At 28th September, 2008 it is estimated that a 15.0% strengthening of sterling against the Japanese Yen would have reduced the net loss taken to equity by nil 2007 nil and reduced the net loss taken to income by 17.7 million 2007 94.3 million.
A 15.0% weakening of sterling against the Japanses Yen would have increased the net loss taken to equity by nil 2007 nil and increased the net loss taken to income by 24.0 million 2007 129.4 million.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 121 30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Continued The carrying amounts and gains and losses on financial instruments is as follows: 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Carrying Gain loss Gain loss Carrying Gain loss Gain loss amount to income to equity amount to income to equity m m m m m m Investments 11.3 10.1 0.7 52.3 24.4 24.5 Available-for-sale 11.3 10.1 0.7 52.3 24.4 24.5 Trade receivables 351.2 3.3 12.7 331.1 1.3 4.2 Cash and deposits 45.3 2.7 5.6 70.4 5.5 1.3 Loans and receivables 396.5 0.6 18.3 401.5 4.2 5.5 Interest rate swaps 0.3 0.1 0.3 Fixed to xed cross currency swaps 25.9 12.2 1.4 8.7 Forward foreign currency contracts 5.3 2.6 69.2 10.3 11.3 Derivative assets in effective hedging relationships 5.6 2.7 43.3 22.5 1.1 20.0 Forward foreign currency contracts 0.3 14.8 7.4 14.2 Forward foreign currency options 8.0 11.3 Interest rate caps 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.1 Derivative assets not designated as hedging instruments 8.9 26.0 8.0 14.1 Trade payables 100.8 1.5 83.4 1.3 Bank overdrafts 1.0 0.1 0.4 6.4 0.5 0.4 Bonds 838.9 61.0 838.5 50.8 Bank loans 165.3 15.0 12.6 144.2 12.8 3.4 Loan notes 25.0 1.7 12.2 36.8 1.3 0.1 Liabilities at amortised cost 1,131.0 77.8 2.3 1,109.3 65.4 5.0 Interest rate swaps 4.6 5.3 4.5 Fixed to xed cross currency swaps 26.6 0.5 10.9 1.9 1.5 Forward foreign currency contracts 15.2 97.9 2.8 1.4 Derivative liabilities in effective hedging relationships 46.4 0.5 108.8 10.0 4.5 2.9 Acquisition put option commitments 37.1 3.0 40.6 3.8 Forward foreign currency contracts 26.0 74.3 2.9 Forward foreign currency options 3.4 Derivative liabilities not designated as hedging instruments 63.1 77.3 43.5 0.4 Total for financial instruments 818.2 137.6 48.8 678.5 74.5 41.1 Reconciliation of net gain or loss taken to equity: 2008 2007 Note m m Revaluation reserves recycled to income statement on impairment of GCap Media plc 35 24.4 Change in fair value of hedging derivatives 35 62.8 19.8 Fair value movement in available-for-sale assets 35 0.2 Translation of financial instruments of overseas operations 16.9 0.6 Transfer of gain on cash ow hedges from fair value reserves to income statement 35 2.9 2.7 Total loss on financial instruments to equity 48.8 41.1 www.
com 2008 122 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Continued Reconciliation of net gain or loss taken through income to net finance costs 2008 2007 Note m m Total loss on financial instruments to income 137.6 74.5 Add back: Trade receivables loss 3.3 1.3 Investment impairment 10.1 24.4 Bank interest receivable 2.7 5.5 Finance charge on discounting of deferred consideration 2.4 2.8 Foreign exchange loss on intra-group nancing 4.7 Net finance costs 8 129.3 61.8 The remaining undiscounted contractual liabilities and their maturities are as follows: Bank loans Trade Interest Currency Forward and payables rate swaps swaps contracts Bonds overdrafts Loan notes Total 2008 Within one year 100.8 15.3 599.5 61.0 1.0 25.8 803.4 Between one and two years 15.3 61.0 44.8 121.1 Between two and five years 2.5 217.3 471.5 46.5 737.8 Between five and ten years 32.0 192.3 101.4 325.7 Between ten and fifteen years 6.0 32.0 436.5 474.5 Between fifteen and twenty years 129.8 247.4 377.2 8.5 426.4 1,408.7 192.7 2,036.3 100.8 8.5 441.7 599.5 1,469.7 193.7 25.8 2,839.7 2007 Within one year 83.4 15.3 1,172.3 61.0 6.8 37.9 1,376.7 Between one and two years 15.3 119.2 61.0 163.5 359.0 Between two and five years 55.8 182.8 238.6 Between five and ten years 3.0 202.4 503.4 708.8 Between ten and fifteen years 5.5 32.0 462.1 499.6 Between fifteen and twenty years 136.2 260.2 396.4 8.5 441.7 119.2 1,469.5 163.5 2,202.4 83.4 8.5 457.0 1,291.5 1,530.5 170.3 37.9 3,579.1 Reconciliation of undiscounted liabilities to Balance Sheet amounts: Undiscounted Undiscounted value of Discount Mark to value of financial Unamortised Premium on market Effect of financial liabilities Interest issue costs issue adjustments discounting asset Total 2008 Within one year 803.4 61.9 0.3 1.1 4.4 0.3 579.4 158.8 Between one and two years 121.1 62.4 0.3 1.3 1.3 14.0 44.4 Between two and five years 737.8 177.1 0.7 2.7 18.4 226.0 355.1 Between five and ten years 325.7 212.4 1.1 5.7 5.9 27.2 84.8 Between ten and fifteen years 474.5 105.1 0.7 5.1 7.7 27.2 338.9 Between fifteen and twenty years 377.2 47.6 0.3 0.7 6.1 119.2 215.5 2,036.3 604.6 3.1 14.1 9.6 413.6 1,038.7 2,839.7 666.5 3.4 15.2 4.4 9.9 993.0 1,197.5 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 123 30 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Continued Undiscounted Undiscounted value of Discount Mark to value of financial Unamortised Premium on market Effect of financial liabilities Interest issue costs issue adjustments discounting asset Total Analysed as follows: Trade payables 100.8 100.8 Bank overdrafts 1.1 0.1 1.0 Loan notes 25.8 0.8 25.0 Bank loans 192.6 27.3 165.3 Bonds 1,469.8 638.3 3.4 15.2 4.4 838.9 Interest rate swaps 8.5 4.2 4.3 Fixed to xed cross currency swaps 441.6 12.6 427.6 26.6 Forward foreign currency contracts 599.5 1.5 565.4 35.6 2,839.7 666.5 3.4 15.2 4.4 9.9 993.0 1,197.5 2007 Within one year 1,376.7 62.4 0.3 1.1 5.4 98.3 1,101.8 109.6 Between one and two years 359.0 80.3 0.3 1.1 16.4 118.2 144.9 Between two and five years 238.6 182.9 1.0 3.9 3.9 51.3 3.4 Between five and ten years 708.8 203.4 1.1 5.7 18.2 196.4 295.4 Between ten and fifteen years 499.6 130.8 0.6 5.1 6.9 27.2 339.2 Between fifteen and twenty years 396.4 60.2 0.3 0.7 10.7 124.7 199.8 2,202.4 657.6 3.3 15.1 56.1 517.8 982.7 3,579.1 720.0 3.6 16.2 5.4 154.4 1,619.6 1,092.3 Analysed as follows: Trade payables 83.4 83.4 Bank overdrafts 6.8 0.4 6.4 Loan notes 37.9 1.1 36.8 Bank loans 163.5 19.3 144.2 Bonds 1,530.5 699.2 3.6 16.2 5.4 838.5 Interest rate swaps 8.5 3.2 5.3 Fixed to xed cross currency swaps 456.8 39.5 427.6 10.3 Forward foreign currency contracts 1,291.7 111.7 1,192.0 12.0 3,579.1 720.0 3.6 16.2 5.4 154.4 1,619.6 1,092.3 31 RETIREMENT BENEFITS The national and local media divisions of the Group operate a number of pension schemes covering most major UK Group companies under which contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
The schemes for most employees are funded fide ned bene t pension arrangements providing service-related bene ts based on final pensionable salary and are administered by trustee companies.
During the year trust-based fide ned contribution pension plans were progressively being replaced by Group personal pension plans, a process that was substantially complete at the year end.
The trust-based plans will be wound up during 2009.
The assets of all the pension schemes and plans are held independently from the Groups nances.
The total net pension costs of the Group for the year ended 28th September, 2008 were 20.5 million 2007 31.1 million.
fide ned Bene t Schemes On 30th November, 2007 the members, assets and liabilities of the Mail Newspapers Pension Scheme were merged into the Harmsworth Pension Scheme which is now the principal scheme for the Group.
As a condition of the merger the Company has provided letters of credit for 40.0 million to cover the period to 1st December, 2011.
The Trustee would have a call on this contingent asset in the event that the newly combined scheme begins to be wound up before 1st December, 2011 and the assets of the scheme are insuf cient to provide bene ts in full for all members.
During the year, the trustee companies amended their procedure for appointing Company-appointed and Member-nominated www.
com 2008 124 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 31 RETIREMENT BENEFITS Continued Directors in compliance with revised trust documentation and new legislation.
This has resulted, in the case of the trustee company of the principal scheme, in a trustee board comprising four Member-nominated Directors, four Company-appointed directors who are employees of the Group, and an independent chairman appointed by the Company.
The new arrangements have been communicated to scheme members.
Full actuarial valuations are carried out triennially by the actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The gures in this note are based on calculations performed as part of the work carried out for the actuarial valuations of the main schemes as at 31st March, 2007, and adjusted to 28th September, 2008 by the actuary.
This was the first valuation undertaken in accordance with the scheme speci c funding provisions under the Pensions Act 2004.
Under this legislation, the trustees of the Groups fide ned bene t pension schemes are required to agree with the sponsor a suitable, prudent, ongoing funding basis for the scheme.
In addition, where a fide cit exists on that basis, there is a requirement to agree an appropriate recovery plan for removing it.
The funding strategy agreed with the Trustee of the principal scheme made allowance for assumed future investment returns on the schemes assets of 3.3% p. a. above price in ation, compared with the real return of some 2.6% p. a. implicit within the calculation of the Technical Provisions i. e. the value of the schemes bene t liabilities.
The Company agreed with the Trustee that this margin would be covered by a contingent asset and the Company has put in place a letter of credit to be updated annually of an amount suf cient to cover any potential shortfall in this additional investment return arising prior to the next triennial valuation.
As at 28th September, 2008, the letter of credit had a value of 21.8 million 2007 nil.
In addition, the Company is paying annual cash contributions of 18.0% of members scheme salaries 2007 18.0%.
The valuation of the principal scheme showed that the combined accumulated assets of the scheme as at 31st March 2007 represented 99% of the schemes Technical Provisions in respect of past service bene ts.
At 28th September, 2008, the fide ned bene t obligation to the Group relating to the DMGT AVC Plan, as measured for the purposes of this disclosure under the requirements of IAS19, was 53.0 million 2007 56.6 million.
The assets of the Plan were 55.9 million 2007 66.8 million, producing a surplus of 2.9 million 2007 10.2 million.
However, as indicated in the disclosures below, an adjustment has been made to cap the value of assets in the Plan since the surplus is not recoverable by the Group.
Thus, the net value of the Plan in the Group Balance Sheet is nil 2007 nil.
The Plan is closed to further member contributions.
The Plan has had no impact on the pension cost reported in these financial statements.
Members of the fide ned bene t schemes are able to make additional voluntary contributions AVCs into unit-linked funds held within each scheme.
No bene t obligation arises to the Group from these AVCs and the related unit-linked AVC assets have been excluded from the scheme assets reported below.
A reconciliation of the net pension obligation reported in the Balance Sheet is shown in the following table: 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 Schemes in Schemes in Schemes in Schemes in surplus fide cit Total surplus fide cit Total m m m m m m Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 70.0 1,551.0 1,621.0 1,556.0 221.1 1,777.1 Assets at fair value 75.4 1,507.3 1,582.7 1,648.2 219.7 1,867.9 Impact of asset ceiling on AVC Plan 2.9 2.9 10.2 10.2 Surplus fide cit reported in the Balance Sheet 2.5 43.7 41.2 82.0 1.4 80.6 The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee, in its document IFRIC 14, has interpreted the extent to which a company can recognise a pension surplus on its Balance Sheet.
Having taken account of the rules of the schemes, the fact that the schemes remain open to new accrual, and the current and anticipated levels of service cost and cash contributions, the Company considers that recognition of surpluses in the schemes on its Balance Sheet is in accordance with the interpretations of IFRIC 14.
In 2008, the two main schemes were in fide cit, the Metal Bulletin scheme was in surplus and the DMGT AVC Plan had its assets capped to the value of the liabilities.
The surplus for the year, set out above, excludes a related deferred tax asset of 11.5 million 2007 liability 22.5 million.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 125 31 RETIREMENT BENEFITS Continued A reconciliation of the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation is shown in the following table: 2008 2007 m m fide ned bene t obligation at start of year 1,777.1 1,830.1 Service cost 39.2 44.8 Interest cost 104.1 92.1 Past service cost 0.6 1.3 Member contributions 8.8 9.1 Bene t payments 75.6 72.3 Bulk transfer to Aberdeen Journals 20.4 Acquisition of Metal Bulletin 21.7 Actuarial movement 233.2 129.3 fide ned bene t obligation at the end of year 1,621.0 1,777.1 A reconciliation of the fair value of assets is shown in the following table: 2008 2007 m m Fair value of assets at start of year 1,867.9 1,682.4 Expected return on assets 131.1 113.8 Company contributions 1.5 53.2 Member contributions 8.8 9.1 Bulk transfer to Aberdeen Journals 20.4 Bene t payments 75.6 72.3 Acquisition of Metal Bulletin 17.7 Actuarial movement 351.0 84.4 Fair value of assets at end of year 1,582.7 1,867.9 In 2008 the Company did not make an advance payment of contributions but will revert to monthly contribution payments from October 2008.
The fair value of the assets held by the pension schemes and the long-term expected rate of return on each class of assets are shown in the following table: Equities Bonds Property Other assets Total 2008 Value at 28th September, 2008 million 989.9 399.5 129.9 63.4 1,582.7 % of assets held 62.6 25.2 8.2 4.0 100.0 Long-term rate of return expected at 30th September, 2007 % 8.7 5.0 7.0 5.0 7.5 2007 Value at 30th September, 2007 million 1,356.6 254.0 156.0 101.3 1,867.9 % of assets held 72.6 13.6 8.4 5.4 100.0 Long-term rate of return expected at 1st October, 2006 % 7.8 4.9 6.5 5.5 7.1 2006 Value at 1st October, 2006 million 1,240.2 175.8 136.0 130.4 1,682.4 % of assets held 73.7 10.4 8.1 7.8 100.0 Long-term rate of return expected at 2nd October, 2005 % 7.6 4.4 6.5 4.4 6.9 In 2008, equities include hedge funds and infrastructure funds that have the same long-term expected rate of return.
com 2008 126 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 31 RETIREMENT BENEFITS Continued The trust deed of each of the schemes explicitly prohibits investment of the scheme assets in employer-related investments, apart from those required in order that a passively managed UK equity portfolio can be utilised by the trustees.
The value of DMGT A Ordinary Non-Voting shares held by the UK equity passive manager on behalf of the schemes at 28th September, 2008 was 0.2 million 2007 0.7 million.
The assumption for the expected overall rate of return on assets is a weighted average of the expected returns for each asset class based on the proportion of assets held in each class at the beginning of the year.
The expected return on bonds has been selected having regard to gross redemption yields at the start of the year.
The expected returns on equities and property are based on a combination of estimated risk premiums over Government bond yields, the gross redemption yields on bonds, and consensus economic forecasts for future returns.
The actual return on Plan assets was a loss of 219.9 million 2007 gain of 198.2 million representing the expected return plus the associated actuarial gain or loss during the year.
The main financial assumptions are shown in the following table: 2008 2007 % % Price in ation 3.7 3.3 Salary increases 4.2 4.6 Pension increases 3.7 3.3 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 7.0 5.9 Expected overall rate of return on assets 7.5 7.1 The discount rate for scheme liabilities re ects yields at the Balance Sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
In the light of scheme experience and ongoing cost constraints on businesses participating in the principal scheme the Company has adopted a lower assumed salary growth compared with in ation.
All assumptions were selected after taking actuarial advice.
Taking account of the work undertaken in connection with the actuarial valuations as at 31st March, 2007, the Company revised the mortality assumptions in 2007 to take account of scheme experience, and also to allow for further improvements in life expectancy based on medium cohort projections but with a minimum rate of reduction in mortality rates in future of 1% per annum.
At the same time, the Company decided to make an allowance for the extent to which employees have chosen to commute part of their pension for cash at retirement.
In the light of scheme experience, a further review of demographic assumptions following the formal valuation has led the Company to assume a lower proportion of members with dependants at retirement eligible for a pension than had previously been used.
The table below illustrates examples of the assumed average life expectancies from age 60 for the principal schemes: 2008 2007 Future life Future life expectancy expectancy from age 60 from age 60 years years For a current 60-year old male member of the scheme 25.5 25.4 For a current 60-year old female member of the scheme 28.0 27.9 For a current 50-year old male member of the scheme 26.6 26.5 For a current 50-year old female member of the scheme 29.1 29.0 The amounts charged to the income statement based on the above assumptions are shown in the following table: 2008 2007 m m Service cost 39.2 44.8 Interest cost 104.1 92.1 Expected return on assets 131.1 113.8 Past service cost 0.6 1.3 Net charge to income statement 12.8 24.4 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 127 31 RETIREMENT BENEFITS Continued Pension costs and the size of any pension surplus or fide cit are sensitive to the assumptions adopted.
The table below indicates the effect from changes in the principle assumptions used above: 2008 m Mortality Change in pension obligation at 28th September, 2008 from a 1 year change in life expectancy 48.6 Change in 2008 pension cost from a 1 year change 4.2 Salary Increases Change in pension obligation at 28th September, 2008 from a 0.25% change 11.9 Change in 2008 pension cost from a 0.25% change 2.0 Discount Rate Change in pension obligation at 28th September, 2008 from a 0.10% change 26.1 Change in 2008 pension cost from a 0.10% change 1.2 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE are shown in the following table: 2008 2007 m m Actuarial loss gain recognised in SORIE 117.8 213.7 Impact of asset ceiling on AVC Plan 7.3 6.6 Total loss gains recognised in SORIE 110.5 207.1 Cumulative actuarial gain recognised in SORIE at beginning of year 256.9 49.8 Cumulative actuarial gain recognised in SORIE at end of year 146.4 256.9 A history of experience gains and losses is shown in the following table: 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Present value of fide ned bene t obligation 1,621.0 1,777.1 1,830.1 1,654.1 1,423.1 Fair value of scheme assets 1,582.7 1,867.9 1,682.4 1,443.2 1,197.3 Impact of asset ceiling in AVC Plan from 2006 2.9 10.2 3.6 Combined fide cit surplus in schemes 41.2 80.6 151.3 210.9 225.8 Experience adjustments on fide ned bene t obligation 233.2 129.3 43.0 12.9 20.2 Experience adjustments on fair value of scheme assets 351.0 84.4 77.6 156.2 40.8 The Group expects to contribute approximately 32.8 million to the schemes during the 2009 financial year.
Included in scheme assets in 2007 is an advance payment into the Groups pension schemes amounting to 25.1 million.
In accordance with the provisions of the contribution schedules for the schemes, the Company has not made an advance payment in 2008 but will be making regular monthly contribution payments from October 2008.
UK fide ned contribution plans During the year trust-based fide ned contribution pension plans were progressively being replaced by group personal pension plans, a process that was substantially complete at the year end.
The new plans have created a consistent pensions savings vehicle across all Group divisions, providing important strategic bene ts going forward.
The aggregate value of the trust-based and group personal pension fide ned contribution pension plans was 24.5 million 2007 27.0 million at the year end.
The pension cost attributable to these plans during the year amounted to 4.4 million 2007 3.6 million.
Overseas pension plans Overseas subsidiaries of certain Group divisions operate fide ned contribution retirement bene t plans, primarily in North America and Australia.
The pension cost attributable to these plans during the year amounts to 3.3 million 2007 4.6 million.
Pension arrangements for executives The Group operates a two-tier, contributory fide ned bene t pension scheme for senior executives including executive Directors, details of which are incorporated in the above disclosures.
It is the Groups policy that annual bonuses, payments under the Executive Bonus Scheme and bene ts in kind are not pensionable.
com 2008 128 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 31 RETIREMENT BENEFITS Continued Included in UK fide ned contribution plans above are investments in a funded unapproved retirement bene t scheme for certain executives of the Group.
The assets of this scheme are held under individual trusts independently from the Groups nances.
There was no additional investment in these individual trusts during the year 2007 nil and, following approval from HM Revenue & Customs and the trustees, all but one of the executives chose to disinvest their funds before 5th April, 2008.
At the year end no executive Directors had funds invested in the scheme.
Stakeholder pension DMGT provides access to a stakeholder pension plan for relevant employees who are not eligible for the other pension schemes operated by the Group.
32 PROVISIONS Coupon Deferred Other discount Lease consideration Legal ii Total Note m m m m m m Current liabilities At 30th September, 2007 1.2 0.9 11.3 4.7 4.6 22.7 Additions 15 2.5 2.5 Charged during year 1.0 10.0 5.1 16.1 Utilised during year 1.7 1.1 8.8 3.9 15.5 Transfer i 1.2 1.2 Transfer from non-current liabilities 0.8 19.0 1.3 21.1 Transfer to loan notes 13 13.1 13.1 Deferred consideration paid 14 7.3 7.3 Notional interest on deferred consideration 8 1.1 1.1 Adjustment to goodwill deferred consideration 17 1.6 1.6 Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 28th September, 2008 0.5 1.8 12.1 6.0 7.0 27.4 Non-current liabilities At 30th September, 2007 1.8 44.6 1.5 1.1 49.0 Additions 15 5.0 5.0 Charged during year 1.7 0.1 0.2 2.0 Utilised during year 2.7 0.1 1.5 1.3 Transfer i 1.3 1.6 2.9 Transfer to current liabilities 0.3 19.0 2.4 21.1 Deferred consideration paid 14 6.9 6.9 Notional interest on deferred consideration 8 1.3 1.3 Adjustment to goodwill deferred consideration 17 1.3 1.3 Exchange adjustment 1.8 0.1 0.1 2.0 At 28th September, 2008 2.4 25.5 1.6 2.1 31.6 i The Group has reclassi ed certain provisions totalling 4.1 million previously included within trade and other payables to provisions to better re ect the classi cation of the creditor.
The provision consists of social security arising on share option liabilities and dilapidations on leasehold properties.
ii Other current provisions principally comprise annual leave provisions of 2.2 million 2007 2.0 million, dilapidation provisions of 0.1 million 2007 0.1 million, contract discount provisions of 2.2 million 2007 2.2 million and agency rebates of 1.3 million 2007 nil.
Other non-current provisions principally comprise annual leave provisions of 0.4 million 2007 1.1 million and dilapidation provisions of 1.7 million 2007 1.6 million.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 129 32 PROVISIONS Continued The Groups coupon discount and redundancy and reorganisation provisions are all expected to be utilised within the next 12 months.
The lease provisions are dependent on the terms of the lease whilst the timing of cash ows for legal disputes have been split using Directors best estimates.
The uncertainties surrounding and the nature of the Groups deferred consideration provisions are disclosed in critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty note 2.
The maturity pro le of the Groups deferred consideration provision is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Expiring in one year or less 12.1 11.3 Expiring between one and two years 11.8 22.9 Expiring between two and five years 13.7 21.7 37.6 55.9 33 DEFERRED TAXATION Accelerated Goodwill Revaluation UK Trading Pension capital and and roll capital losses and scheme allowances intangibles over gains losses tax credits fide cit Other Total Note m m m m m m m m Disclosed within non-current liabilities 40.2 67.1 6.2 6.2 13.8 37.6 13.6 42.3 Disclosed within non-current assets 3.0 15.7 3.0 15.7 At 1st October, 2006 40.2 64.1 6.2 6.2 29.5 37.6 10.6 26.6 Credit charge to income 2.7 15.6 2.5 2.5 7.7 0.4 4.8 6.2 Credit charge to equity 2.8 58.0 4.0 56.8 Owned by subsidiaries acquired 55.2 1.0 54.2 Owned by subsidiaries sold 0.2 0.2 Exchange adjustment 4.4 2.5 1.9 Effect of change in tax rate: Income statement 2.7 1.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 4.6 Equity 2.9 2.9 At 30th September, 2007 34.8 100.4 8.3 8.3 21.8 22.5 8.3 127.6 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 34.8 101.0 8.3 8.3 20.5 22.5 2.2 135.6 Disclosed within non-current assets 0.6 1.3 6.1 8.0 Credit charge to income 9 12.1 37.2 2.7 3.4 20.8 3.1 9.4 57.7 Credit to equity 35 30.9 9.1 40.0 Owned by subsidiaries acquired 15 12.5 12.5 Owned by subsidiaries sold 16 0.1 0.1 Exchange adjustment 5.8 2.3 3.1 0.4 At 28th September, 2008 46.9 81.6 5.6 4.9 44.9 11.5 29.9 42.9 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 49.7 54.5 5.6 4.9 1.5 11.5 17.9 74.0 Disclosed within non-current assets 2.8 27.1 43.4 12.0 31.1 At 28th September, 2008 46.9 81.6 5.6 4.9 44.9 11.5 29.9 42.9 i The deferred tax assets disclosed in the Balance Sheet in respect of overseas tax losses, relate primarily to trading losses incurred in the US and have been recognised on the basis that the Directors are of the opinion based on recent and forecast trading, that suf cient suitable taxable pro ts will be generated in the relevant territories in future accounting periods, such that it is considered probable that these assets will be recovered.
Of these assets, 24.9 million will expire between 2017 and 2028.
The remaining assets have no expiry date.
ii There is an unrecognised deferred tax asset of 24.0 million 2007 25.3 million which relates primarily to overseas tax losses where there is insuf cient certainty that these losses will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
There is an additional unprovided deferred tax asset relating to capital losses carried forward of 29.4 million 2007 20.7 million.
com 2008 130 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 33 DEFERRED TAXATION Continued iii There is a potential taxable temporary difference in respect of the Groups investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures, principally in relation to as yet unremitted earnings from overseas subsidiaries.
The Group has estimated the potential taxable temporary difference to be approximately 680.7 million 2007 801.5 million.
34 CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL Allotted, issued Allotted, issued Authorised Authorised and fully paid and fully paid 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares of 12.5 pence each 48.5 48.5 46.6 46.9 51.0 51.0 49.1 49.4 Allotted, issued Allotted, issued and fully paid and fully paid 2008 2007 2008 2007 Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares Ordinary shares 20,000,000 20,000,000 19,886,472 19,886,472 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares 388,000,000 388,000,000 372,696,648 375,423,794 408,000,000 408,000,000 392,583,120 395,310,266 The two classes of shares are equal in all respects, except that the A Ordinary Non-Voting shares do not have voting rights and hence their holders are not entitled to vote at general meetings of the Company.
During the year, 18,389,672 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares were purchased having a nominal value of 2,298,709 as part of a review of opportunities to buy back shares and to match obligations under an incentive plan.
The consideration paid for these shares was 88.3 million.
Shares repurchased during the period represented 4.93% of the called up A Ordinary Non-Voting share capital at 28th September, 2008.
The Company disposed of 3,801,025 of these shares, representing 1.02% of the called up A Ordinary Non-Voting share capital, in order to satisfy incentive schemes.
The Company also cancelled 2,727,146 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares, representing 0.73% of its called up A Ordinary non-Voting share capital at the date of cancellation.
At 28th September, 2008, options were outstanding under the terms of the Companys 1997 and 2006 Executive Share Option Schemes over a total of 6,978,245 2007 6,423,854 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
35 RESERVES 2008 2007 Note m m Share premium account At beginning of year 12.4 9.7 Issue of shares 2.7 At end of year 12.4 12.4 Capital redemption reserve At beginning of year 0.8 On cancellation of A Ordinary shares 0.3 0.8 At end of year 1.1 0.8 Revaluation reserve At beginning of year 46.0 46.5 Revaluation reserves recycled to income statement on impairment of GCap Media plc 24.4 Transfer to retained earnings realised gain on GCap Media plc shares 6.5 24.4 Transfer to retained earnings following disposal of properties previously revalued 0.7 Fair value movement in available-for-sale assets 21 0.2 At end of year 39.5 46.0 The revaluation reserve arises following revaluation of the Groups available-for-sale investments and their historic amounts relating to previous GAAP which were not transferred to retained earnings on transition to IFRS.
Additionally, at the start of the year, 6.5 million relating to an unrealised gain on disposal of businesses to GWR Group plc now Global Radio in 2005 was included within revaluation reserves.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O S T TH OE C THO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA DT IE ND C B OM AL EA S N TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 131 35 RESERVES Continued 2008 2007 m m Shares held in treasury At beginning of year 44.4 63.1 Purchase of own shares 88.3 32.8 Own shares released on vesting of share options 21.0 4.9 Own shares cancelled 18.2 46.6 At end of year 93.5 44.4 The Groups investment in its own shares is classi ed within shareholders funds as shares held in treasury.
At 28th September, 2008 this investment comprised the cost of 18,215,407 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares 2007 6,353,906 shares.
The market value of these shares at 28th September, 2008 was 59.1 million 2007 40.0 million.
2008 2007 m m Translation reserve At beginning of year 27.0 8.2 Exchange differences on translation of overseas operations 58.8 1.8 Translation reserves recycled to income statement on disposals 0.1 0.1 Transfer of gain on cash ow hedges to income statement 2.9 2.7 Losses gains on cash ow hedges 17.5 6.4 Change in value of net investment hedges 45.3 13.4 Transfer minority share of items reported directly in equity 2.2 At end of year 22.2 27.0 The translation reserve arises on the translation into Sterling of the net assets of the Groups foreign operations, offset by changes in fair value of financial instruments used to hedge this exposure.
2008 2007 Note m m Retained earnings At beginning of year 601.7 423.8 Net pro t for the year 107.0 Dividends paid 10 56.3 53.2 Actuarial loss gain on fide ned bene t pension schemes 31 110.4 207.1 Credit to equity for share-based payments 38 16.6 18.1 Settlement of exercised share options of subsidiary 20.2 13.2 Initial reordering of put options granted to minority interests in subsidiaries i 0.5 18.5 Transfer from revaluation reserves realised gain on GCap Media plc 6.5 24.4 Exercise of acquisition option commitments 7.0 7.2 Cancellation of shares held in treasury 18.2 46.6 Transfer from revaluation reserves following disposal of properties previously revalued 19 0.7 Movement in losses attributable to minorities which are borne by Group 36 5.4 Transfer minority share of items reported directly in equity 36 8.7 1.1 Revaluation of previously held interest in associate on acquisition of control 15 27.0 Adjustment to equity following increased stake in controlled entity 6.4 Current tax on items recognised in equity 1.0 0.3 Deferred tax on actuarial movement 33 30.9 60.9 Deferred tax on other items recognised directly in equity 33 9.1 1.2 At end of year 479.1 601.7 At end of year Total Reserves 460.8 643.5 i 0.5 million 2007 18.5 million representing the fair value of written put options granted to minority shareholders in the year has been recorded as a reduction in equity on initial recording, as the arrangement represents a transaction with equity holders.
Changes in fair value after initial recognition are recorded in the income statement.
com 2008 132 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 36 MINORITY INTERESTS 2008 2007 m m At beginning of year 27.6 Share of pro t 16.8 15.3 Dividends paid 10.3 8.9 Shares issued 0.2 0.5 Minority interests arising from business combinations 0.2 2.3 Share of items reported directly in equity 6.6 1.1 Other transactions with minorities 2.6 0.2 Movement in losses attributable to minorities which are borne by the Group 5.4 Minority share of new equity in Euromoney 22.7 Exchange adjustment 0.2 0.2 At end of year 38.7 27.6 When losses attributable to minorities exceed the minorities interests in the subsidiaries equity, the minorities share of losses is carried forward in Group retained earnings.
37 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Commitments 2008 2007 m m Property, plant and equipment Contracted but not provided in the financial statements 0.7 3.3 At 28th September, 2008 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2008 2008 2007 2007 Plant and Plant and Properties equipment Properties equipment m m m m Within one year 31.2 2.9 25.6 2.1 Between one and two years 25.2 3.4 21.0 2.2 Between two and five years 62.3 3.3 52.0 4.1 After five years 82.6 71.6 201.3 9.6 170.2 8.4 The Groups most signi cant leasing arrangements relate to rented properties.
The Group negotiates lease contracts according to the Groups needs with a view to balancing stability and security of tenure and lease terms with the risk of entering into excessively long or onerous arrangements.
Of the Groups rented properties, the most signi cant commitment relates to the head of ce premises at 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT.
This lease expires on 25th December, 2022.
The Group entered into arrangements with its ink suppliers to obtain ink for the period to September 2015 at competitive prices and to secure supply.
At the year end, the commitment to purchase ink over the period was 148.6 million 2007 65.4 million.
The Group has entered into agreements with certain printers for periods up to 2022 at competitive prices and to secure supply.
At the year end, the commitment to purchase printing capacity over the period was 65.1 million 2007 33.4 million.
Contingent liabilities As set out in note 31 the Group has issued stand by letters of credit in favour of the Trustees of the Groups fide ned bene t pension fund amounting to 64.3 million 2007 nil.
The Group is exposed to libel claims in the ordinary course of business and vigorously defends against claims received, The Group makes provision for the estimated costs to defend such claims when incurred and provides for any settlement costs when such an outcome is judged probable.
Four writs claiming damages for libel have been issued in Malaysia against Euromoney Institutional Investor and three of its employees in respect of an article published in one of Euromoneys magazines, International Commercial Litigation, in November 1995.
The writs were served on Euromoney on 22nd October, 1996.
Two of these writs have been discontinued.
The total outstanding amount claimed on the two remaining writs is 82 million Malaysian ringgits, 13.5 million.
No provision has been made in these accounts since the Directors do not believe that Euromoney has any material liability in respect of these writs.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 133 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group offers a number of share-based remuneration schemes to Directors and certain employees.
The principal schemes comprise share options under the DMGT, Euromoney and within DMG Information, Risk Management Solutions RMS, Genscape and Trepp Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS, the Euromoney Capital Appreciation Plan and the Companys LTIP.
Share options are exercisable after three years, subject in some cases to the satisfaction of performance conditions, and up to ten years from the date of grant at a price equivalent to the market value of the respective shares at the date of grant at a price equivalent to the market value of the respective shares at the date of grant.
Details of the performance conditions relating to the DMGT schemes are explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 and 69.
For equity-settled share-based payment transactions, IFRS 2, Share-based payments applies to grants of shares, share options or other equity instruments made after 7th November, 2002 that had not vested by 1st January, 2005.
The charge to the income statement arising from the most signi cant schemes is analysed as follows: 2008 2007 Division Scheme m m DMGT Executive Share Option Scheme 5.1 1.5 Long Term Incentive Plan 1.2 0.6 Business information RMS 4.7 4.5 Genscape 0.3 0.7 Trepp 0.3 0.5 Euromoney Capital Appreciation Plan 4.7 9.8 Save As You Earn scheme 0.3 0.2 ISI cash settled 0.4 0.3 17.0 18.1 The fair value of share options for each of these schemes was determined using a Black-Scholes model.
Full details of inputs to the models, particular to each scheme, are set out below.
With respect to all schemes, the share price volatility has been estimated, based upon relevant historic data in respect of the DMGT A Ordinary share prices.
Expected volatility has been estimated, based upon relevant historic data in respect of the DMGT A Ordinary share price.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability.
The Group did not re-price any of its outstanding options during the year.
Further details of the Groups schemes are set out below: DMGT 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme 2008 2008 2007 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options exercise price share options exercise price Outstanding at 30 September, 2007 2,490,354 6.44 2,708,056 6.94 Exercised during the year 37,146 6.45 Forfeited during the year 124,854 6.87 180,556 6.15 Expired during the year 49,255 6.09 Outstanding at 28th September, 2008 2,316,245 6.43 2,490,354 6.44 Exercisable at 28th September, 2008 Exercisable at 1st October, 2007 The above summary has been re-analysed to exclude 1,708,500 2007 1,757,000 share options that were granted before 7th November, 2002.
In accordance with IFRS 2, no cost has been recognised in respect of these options.
No share options were granted during the year.
The options outstanding at 28th September, 2008 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 6.3 years 2007 5.8 years.
com 2008 134 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued Options under the DMGT 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme The inputs into the Black-Scholes model for options, granted since 7th November 2002, are as follows: 16th December, 2nd January, 8th December, 16th June, 6th December, Date of grant 2002 2003 2003 2004 2004 Market value of shares at date of grant p 573.0 581.5 607.5 684.0 723.5 Option price p 573.0 581.5 607.5 684.0 723.5 Number of share options outstanding 625,795 62,000 721,742 5,000 901,708 Term of option years 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years 6.50 6.50 6.50 6.50 6.50 Exercise price p 573.0 581.5 607.5 684.0 723.5 Risk-free rate % 5.00 5.00 4.80 4.60 4.50 Expected dividend yield % 1.61 1.58 1.65 1.51 1.52 Volatility % 20.00 20.00 20.00 20.00 20.00 Fair value per option p 134.7 136.7 142.8 160.7 170.0 DMGT 2006 Executive Share Option Scheme 2008 2008 2007 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options exercise price share options exercise price Outstanding at 30th September, 2007 2,176,500 6.89 1,132,000 6.90 Granted during the year 824,000 4.85 1,070,500 6.88 Forfeited during the year 47,000 6.67 Expired during the year 26,000 6.93 Outstanding at 28th September, 2008 2,953,500 6.33 2,176,500 6.89 Exercisable at 28th September, 2008 Exercisable at 1st October, 2007 No share options were exercised or expired during the year.
Options were forfeited by leavers.
Options that expired in the year were renounced by current executives before the end of their 10 year term.
The options outstanding at 28th September, 2008 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.2 years 2007 8.8 years.
DMGT 2006 Executive Share Option Scheme Options granted during the year were as follows: 2008 2007 Number of Number of share options share options 9th June, 2008 100,000 27th May, 2008 35,000 17th December, 2007 689,000 27th November, 2006 1,070,500 824,000 1,070,500 The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on the above dates is 0.8 million 2007 1.6 million.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 135 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued DMGT 2006 Executive Share Option Scheme The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 31st March, 5th July, 27th November, Date of grant 2006 2006 2006 Market value of shares at date of grant p 698.0 610.5 688.0 Option price p 698.0 610.5 688.0 Number of share options outstanding 1,009,000 93,000 1,031,500 Term of option years 10.00 10.00 10.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years 7.00 7.00 7.00 Exercise price p 698.0 610.5 688.0 Risk-free rate % 4.50 4.80 4.30 Expected dividend yield % 1.72 2.01 1.90 Volatility % 20.00 20.00 20.00 Fair value per option p 153.0 143.5 150.8 17th December, 27th May, 9th June, Date of grant 2007 2008 2008 Market value of shares at date of grant p 504.5 402.0 381.5 Option price p 504.5 402.0 381.5 Number of share options outstanding 685,000 35,000 100,000 Term of option years 10.00 10.00 10.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years 7.00 7.00 7.00 Exercise price p 504.50 402.00 381.50 Risk-free rate % 4.30 4.30 4.30 Expected dividend yield % 2.84 3.66 3.85 Volatility % 20.00 20.00 30.00 Fair value per option p 117.8 92.0 85.3 DMGT Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 2008 2007 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average awards exercise price awards exercise price Outstanding at 30th September, 2007 695,626 7.09 540,211 7.07 Awarded during the year 565,425 4.27 155,415 7.17 Expired during the year 764 7.17 Outstanding at 28th September, 2008 1,260,287 5.82 695,626 7.09 Exercisable at 28th September, 2008 Exercisable at 1st October, 2007 The above summary has been reanalysed to exclude 322,499 2007 322,499 of awards that were granted before 7th November, 2002.
In accordance with IFRS 2, no cost has been recognised in respect of these awards.
No share options were exercised or forfeited during the year.
The awards outstanding at 28th September, 2008 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 2.2 years 2007 1.4 years.
com 2008 136 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued Awards made during the year were as follows: 2008 2007 Number of Number of awards awards 19th March, 2008 565,425 1st January, 2007 155,415 565,425 155,415 The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the awards made on the above dates is 2.3 million 2007 0.8 million.
Options under the DMGT Long Term Incentive Scheme The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 1st January, 1st January, 1st January, 1st January, 1st January, Date of grant 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Market value of shares at date of grant p 593.8 703.5 753.0 788.0 717.0 Option price p 593.8 703.5 753.0 788.0 717.0 Number of awards outstanding 111,557 221,743 95,650 111,261 154,651 Term of awards years 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years Exercise price p Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Risk-free rate % 5.00 4.80 4.50 4.50 4.30 Expected dividend yield % 1.55 1.42 1.46 1.52 1.82 Volatility % 20.00 20.00 20.00 20.00 20.00 Fair value per option p 451.3 534.7 572.3 598.9 544.9 19th March, 19th March, 19th March, 19th March, 19th March, Date of grant 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Market value of shares at date of grant p 426.5 426.5 426.5 426.5 426.5 Option price p 426.5 426.5 426.5 426.5 426.5 Number of awards outstanding 129,265 64,632 64,632 64,632 64,632 Term of awards years 2.70 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years Exercise price p Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Risk-free rate % 4.30 4.30 4.30 4.30 4.30 Expected dividend yield % 3.36 3.36 3.36 3.36 3.36 Volatility % 20.00 20.00 20.00 20.00 20.00 Fair value per option p 394.5 394.5 394.5 394.5 394.5 19th March, Date of grant 2008 Market value of shares at date of grant p 426.5 Option price p 426.5 Number of awards outstanding 177,632 Term of awards years 6.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years Exercise price p Nil Risk-free rate % 4.30 Expected dividend yield % 3.36 Volatility % 20.00 Fair value per option p 394.5 In March, an award was made to a senior executive as part of his recruitment.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 137 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued Executive Plan 2008 2008 2007 2007 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average awards exercise price awards exercise price Outstanding at 30th September, 2007 Awarded during the year 320,000 4.30 Outstanding at 28th September, 2008 320,000 4.30 Exercisable at 28th September, 2008 Exercisable at 1st October, 2007 No awards were exercised or expired or forfeited during the year.
The awards outstanding at 28th September, 2008 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.4 years.
Executive Plan Awards made during the year were as follows: 2008 2007 Number of Number of awards awards 25th March, 2008 320,000 320,000 The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the awards made on the above dates is 1.4 million.
Executive Plan The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 25th March, Date of grant 2008 Market value of shares at date of grant p 429.5 Option price p 429.5 Number of awards outstanding 320,000 Term of awards years 3.90 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years Exercise price p Nil Risk-free rate % 4.30 Expected dividend yield % 3.34 Volatility % 20.00 Fair value per option p 429.5 Divisional management incentive schemes The Group operated a long term incentive scheme for senior employees of the Groups national media division based on cumulative pro t targets for the three years to 30th September, 2007.
At the end of each of the three years, participants in the scheme were invited to pledge their annual bonus either as cash or by taking DMGT A Ordinary shares, both of which must be committed to the scheme until the end of its three year life.
The initial scheme vested at 30th September, 2007 and so a matching award was made to each participant.
Matching awards of 56,368 shares were made on 27th November, 2007 when the share price was 5.43.
No shares were forfeited or lapsed during the year.
The Group operates a long term incentive plan for senior employees of the Groups local media division based on pro t and revenue targets.
Participants in the scheme have the choice of being rewarded with a cash bonus or by taking DMGT A Ordinary shares.
Where a participant chooses to take shares it is a condition of the scheme that the shares must be held for a minimum of two years.
No shares were awarded, forfeited or lapsed during the year.
The Euromoney Capital Appreciation Plan CAP The CAP executive share option scheme was approved by shareholders on 1st February, 2005.
Each of the CAP awards comprises an option to subscribe for Ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the Company for an exercise price of 0.25p per Ordinary share.
The awards become exercisable on satisfaction of certain performance conditions and lapse to the extent unexercised on 30th September, 2014.
The initial performance condition increased during 2007 to re ect the acquisition of Metal Bulletin was achieved in the financial year 2007 and the option pool a maximum of 7.5 million shares was allocated between the www.
com 2008 138 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued holders of outstanding awards.
One third of the awards vested on 14th February, 2008.
The primary performance target was achieved again in 2008 and the second tranche of options will vest in February 2009 subject to the businesses also achieving the secondary performance criteria.
The final tranche will vest in 2010, but only if the primary and secondary performance conditions are again met, otherwise vesting is deferred until both the pro t target of 57.0 million achieved in 2007 is achieved again, and the pro ts of the individual participants businesses are at least 75% of that achieved in 2007 but no later than by reference to the year ending 30th September, 2012.
Euromoney Share Option Schemes The company has 12 share option schemes for which an IFRS2 charge has been recognised.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are shown in the table below.
The executive and Save as You Earn Options were valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the groups share price over a period of 13 years.
The executive options fair values have been discounted at a rate of 10% to re ect their performance conditions.
The expected term of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
2008 2008 2007 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options exercise price share options exercise price Outstanding at 30th September, 2007 4,753,726 1.92 2,477,965 4.04 Awarded during the year 2,619,410 0.15 2,640,578 0.23 Exercised during the year 2,328,418 0.03 107,049 4.01 Expired during the year 178,850 3.85 227,768 4.09 Outstanding at 28th September, 2008 4,865,868 1.80 4,783,726 1.92 Exercisable at 28th September, 2008 4,865,868 1.80 4,783,726 1.92 Exercisable at 1st October, 2007 4,753,726 1.92 2,477,965 4.04 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 3.85 2007 5.91.
The options outstanding at 28th September, 2008 had a weighted average exercise price of 1.80 2007 1.92 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.37 years 2007 5.25 years.
Options granted during the year were as follows: 2008 2007 Number of Number of share options share options CAP 30th September, 2007 2,500,000 30th September, 2008 2,500,000 SAYE 5th January, 2007 140,578 17th December, 2007 119,410 2,619,410 2,640,578 The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on the above dates is 0.4 million 2007 0.6 million.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 139 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued The Euromoney Capital Appreciation Plan The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: CAP Scheme type Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 20th June, 20th June, 20th June, Date of grant 2005 2005 2005 Market value of shares at date of grant p 401.0 401.0 401.0 Option price p 0.25 0.25 0.25 Number of share options outstanding 190,780 2,500,000 2,500,000 Term of option years 10.00 10.00 10.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years 3.28 4.53 5.53 Exercise price p 0.25 0.25 0.25 Risk-free rate % 5.00 5.00 5.00 Dividend growth % 8.44 8.44 8.44 Fair value per option p 3.28 3.02 2.82 Euromoney Share Option Schemes The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 4th December, 28th January, Date of grant 2004 2004 Market value of shares at date of grant p 259.0 419.0 Option price p 259.00 419.00 Number of share options outstanding 356,000 319,000 Term of option years 10.00 10.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years 5.50 5.50 Exercise price p 259.00 419.00 Risk-free rate % 4.10 4.10 Expected dividend yield % 3.93 3.93 Volatility % 30.00 30.00 Fair value per option p 52.0 72.0 SAYE Scheme The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 4th January, 1st February, 5th January, 17th December, Date of grant 2005 2006 2007 2007 Market value of shares at date of grant p 423.0 461.0 524.0 397.0 Option price p 338.0 369.0 419.0 318.0 Number of share options outstanding 1,121 70,869 70,138 92,312 Term of option years 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 Exercise price p 338.0 369.0 419.0 318.0 Risk-free rate % 4.80 4.80 4.75 4.25 Expected dividend yield % 3.35 3.35 3.35 3.35 Volatility % 30.00 30.00 30.00 30.00 Fair value per option 1.2 1.2 1.5 1.1 www.
com 2008 140 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued Internet Securities, Inc. cash settled options The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 2nd February, 11th May, 28th February, Date of grant 2004 2005 2006 Market value of shares at date of grant p n a n a n a Option price p n a n a n a Number of share options outstanding 47,539 1,845 38,501 Term of option years 10.0 10.0 10.0 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 6.5 5.5 4.5 Exercise price p n a n a n a Risk-free rate % n a n a n a Expected dividend yield % n a n a n a Dividend growth % n a n a n a Fair value per option US$ 18.57 18.57 52.70 CAP options were valued using a fair value model that adjusted the share price at the date of grant for the net present value of expected future dividend streams up to the date of expected exercise.
Under IFRS 2, Internet Securities, Inc. options are classi ed as cash settled options.
As such their related fair value equates to the fair value at the Balance Sheet date.
For both these option schemes, the expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
RMS options plan RMS Options were granted at market value.
The options become exercisable after a four year vesting period and lapse after 10 years from grant date.
Previously, the stock issued under the plan was subject to a nine month holding period, which has been subsequently removed during 2007.
The stock issued under the plan is subject to put or call options where DMGT has the right to settle in DMGT A Ordinary shares or cash.
The options plan classi cation changed from cash settled plan in June 2005 to equity settled plan following this change of settlement feature of stock issued under the plan.
RMS Option Scheme 2008 2008 2007 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options exercise price share options exercise price $ $ Outstanding at 30th September, 2007 2,176,759 29.99 1,537,033 24.48 Granted during the year 1,123,515 45.65 949,525 36.39 Forfeited during the year 95,994 39.15 199,907 28.09 Exercised during the year 407,750 25.72 109,892 11.74 Outstanding at 28th September, 2008 2,796,530 36.64 2,176,759 29.99 Exercisable at 28th September, 2008 1,224,342 32.11 609,803 23.06 Exercisable at 1st October, 2007 609,803 23.06 172,515 8.93 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was $45.43 2007 $36.39.
The options outstanding at 28th September, 2008 had a weighted average exercise price of $36.64 2007 $29.99 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 8.01 years 2007 8.11 years.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 141 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued Options granted during the year were as follows: 2008 2007 Number of Number of share options share options 1st October 965,591 794,875 2nd October 4,000 9th October 1,200 15th October 1,250 23rd October 3,200 5th November 2,500 7th November 4,000 12th November 1,250 13th November 2,500 26th November 3,000 30th November 10,000 1st December 1,000 4th December 2,500 1st January 2,000 500 7th January 1,000 14th January 1,000 25th February 10,424 26th February 1,000 1st March 19,500 31st March 31,500 1st April 35,000 6,250 28th April 2,500 1st May 15,000 81,000 14th May 6,500 15th May 1,000 19th May 4,000 29th May 1,000 1st June 5,000 500 11th June 1,000 18th June 3,000 23rd June 2,500 1st July 10,000 15th July 2,000 23rd July 1,000 6 th August 2,000 11th August 1,500 12th August 1,500 2nd September 1,500 15th September 21,500 22nd September 4,000 1,123,515 949,525 www.
com 2008 142 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on the above dates is $11.8 million 2007 $9.8 million.
Genscape options scheme Genscape Options were granted at market value.
The options become exercisable after a three year vesting period and lapse after 10 years from the grant date.
Genscape Option Scheme 2008 2008 2007 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options exercise price share options exercise price $ $ Outstanding at 30th September, 2007 4,499,632 2.78 4,549,632 2.78 Granted during the year 290,500 2.78 Forfeited during the year 63,556 2.78 50,000 2.78 Exercised during the year 36,944 2.78 Outstanding at 28th September, 2008 4,689,632 2.78 4,499,632 2.78 Exercisable at 28th September, 2008 3,431,380 2.78 1,924,281 2.78 Exercisable at 1st October, 2007 1,924,281 2.78 There were no share option exercises during the year.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options cancelled for consideration during the year was $3.08 The options outstanding at 28th September, 2008 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.7 years 2007 8.7 years.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 143 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued Options granted during the year were as follows: 2008 2007 Number of Number of share options share options 24th January, 2008 290,500 290,500 The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on the above dates is $0.2 million 2007 Nil.
Genscape Option Scheme The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: Date of grant During 2006 During 2008 Market value of shares at date of grant US cents 277.8 278.0 Option price US cents 277.8 278.0 Number of share options outstanding 4,499,632 260,000 Term of option years 5.00 3.40 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years 7-9 7-9 Exercise price US cents 277.8 278.0 Risk-free rate % 4.00 2.20 Expected dividend yield % 3.50 3.30 Volatility % 35.00 38.00 Fair value per option US cents 73.0 65.0 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of comparable companies.
Trepp Option Scheme 2008 2008 2007 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share options exercise price share options exercise price Outstanding at 30th September, 2007 511,570 11.90 Granted during the year 170,510 12.95 511,570 11.90 Outstanding at 28th September, 2008 682,080 12.16 511,570 11.90 Exercisable at 28th September, 2008 341,035 12.03 127,893 11.90 Exercisable at 1st October, 2007 127,893 11.90 No options were exercised during the year 2007 None.
The options outstanding at 28th September, 2008 had a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.3 years 2007 4 years.
Options granted during the year were as follows: 2008 2007 Number of Number of share options share options 1st October 170,510 511,570 170,510 511,570 The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on the above dates is $0.4 million 2007 $1.3 million.
com 2008 144 N NO OT TE ES T S TO T O TH HE C E CO ON NS SO OL LI ID DA AT TE ED I D B N A C LO AM NE S CE S TA H TE EE M T C ENT C ontio nn ut eid nued 38 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Continued Trepp Option Scheme The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: Date of grant During 2007 During 2008 Market value of shares at date of grant US cents 1,190.0 1,295.0 Option price US cents 1,190.0 1,295.0 Number of share options outstanding 511,570 170,510 Term of option years 3.00 3.00 Assumed period of exercise after vesting years 2-5 2-5 Exercise price US cents 1,190.0 1,295.0 Risk-free rate % 4.67 4.10 Expected dividend yield % 4.30 4.00 Volatility % 35.00 30.00 Fair value per option US cents 254.0 236.0 Trepp Options were granted at market value.
The options become exercisable after a three year vesting period and lapse after five years from the grant date.
The stock issued under the plan is subject to put or call options where DMGT has the right to settle in DMGT A Ordinary shares.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of comparable companies.
39 ULTIMATE HOLDING COMPANY The Companys ultimate holding company and immediate parent company is Rothermere Continuation Limited, a company incorporated in Bermuda.
40 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below.
Ultimate Controlling Party The Companys ultimate controlling party is the Viscount Rothermere, the Companys Chairman.
Transactions relating to the remuneration and shareholdings of the Viscount Rothermere are given in the Remuneration Report.
Transactions with Directors There were no material transactions with Directors of the Company, except for those relating to remuneration and shareholdings, disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
For the purposes of IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, Executives below the level of the Companys Board are not regarded as related parties.
The remuneration of the Directors at the year end, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories speci ed in IAS 24.
Further information about the individual Directors remuneration is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 69.
2008 2007 m m Short-term employee bene ts 6.1 5.9 Other long-term bene ts 5.1 4.8 Share-based payments 1.8 1.2 13.0 11.9 There were no retirement bene ts or termination charges in 2008 or 2007.
Transactions with joint ventures and associates Details of the Groups principal joint ventures and associates are set out in note 20.
The Company sold its 41.75% share in Centurion Holidays Limited during the year.
During the year the Company has funded the ongoing costs of Centurion by way of loans during the year which were repaid fully before disposal.
Interest was charged on these loans during the year at the base rate 1% and amounted to 0.1 million 2007 0.6 million.
The total amount due from Centurion on 28th September, 2008 was nil 2007 3.7 million.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOT N EO S T TE O T S TH O T E C HO E C NS O O N LS ID OA LT ID EA D I TE ND B COM AL E S AN TC AE S TEM HE EN ET C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 145 40 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Continued Associated Newspapers Limited has a 45% shareholding in Fortune Green Limited.
During the year the Group received revenue for newsprint, computer and of ce services of 0.9 million 2007 0.6 million.
Amounts due from Fortune Green Limited at 28th September, 2008 were 0.3 million 2007 nil.
Associated Newspapers Limited has a 20% share in the Newspapers Licensing Agency NLA from which royalty revenue of 3.0 million was received 2007 2.0 million.
Commissions paid on this revenue total 0.5 million 2007 0.4 million.
The amount due to the NLA on 28th September, 2008 was 0.2 million 2007 nil.
Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited has a 15.8% share holding in The Press Association.
During the year the Group received services amounting to 1.8 million 2007 2.2 million and the net amount due from the Press Association as at 28 September, 2008 was 0.1 million 2007 0.2 million.
During the year, Landmark charged management fees of 0.3 million 2007 0.3 million to Point X Ltd, and recharged costs of 0.1 million 2007 0.1 million.
Point X received royalty income from Landmark of 43,000 2007 53,000 and owed 0.1 million to Landmark 2007 48,000 at the year end.
During the year, Hobsons received dividend income of 0.6 million 2007 0.2 million from ECCTIS Ltd. During the year, DMG Radio Australia Pty Ltd invoiced DMG Radio Perth Pty Ltd AU$2.8 million 2007 AUS$0.9 million and Red Gherkin Pty Ltd AUS$8,000 2007 AUS$nil.
Other related party disclosures As at 28th September, 2008 there was a loan to an of cer of the Company of 33,258 2007 33,258 which bears interest at 5% per annum.
The maximum principal amount outstanding during the year was 33,258 2007 33,258.
At 28th September, 2008 there was a further loan outstanding to the of cer of 3,733 which loan bears interest at 6.25% per annum.
The maximum principal amount outstanding during the year was 3,733 2007 3,773.
At 28th September, 2008, the Group owed 1.5 million 2007 1.2 million to the pension schemes which it operates.
This amount comprised employees and employers contributions in respect of September 2008 payrolls which were paid to the pension schemes in October 2008.
The Group recharges its principal pension schemes with costs of investment management fees.
The total amount recharged during the year was 0.7 million 2007 0.7 million.
41 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Details of material post Balance Sheet events are given in the Directors Report on page 46. www.
com 2008 146 D PR IR IN EC CIP TOA RL S S R UE BP SO ID RIT C ARIEo Sntinued PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Associated Newspapers Limited Publication of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday, the Evening Standard, Metro and London Lite Associated London Distribution Limited Provision of delivery services Associated Northcliffe Digital Limited Provision of new media services Associated Northcliffe Digital Group Limited Holding company Associated Newspapers Ireland Limited Incorporated and operating in Ireland Publication of Irish Newspapers Associated Metro Holdings Incorporated in Jersey: operating in United Arab Emirates Holding company Allegran Limited Provision of internet dating services Autoexposure Limited Provision of internet recruitment services Catchpole Communications LLC incorporated and operating in Saudi Arabia 60% Publication of Dubai newspapers Catchpole Communications FZ LLC incorporated and operating in United Arab Emirates 60% Holding company Data Media and Research Limited 62.5% Provision of internet classi ed car services DMG Niche Publications Ireland Limited Holding company DMG Ireland Holdings Ltd Holding company Evening Standard Eros Card Limited Provision of loyalty card services Find a Property Limited Provision of internet property services Harmsworth Printing Limited Printing of newspapers Harmsworth Quays Limited Procurement of materials and services for the national newspapers Harmsworth Quays Printing Limited Printing of newspapers Harmsworth Printing Didcot Limited Printing of newspapers Harmsworth Printing Stoke Limited Printing of newspapers Harmsworth Printing Derby Limited Printing of newspapers Harmsworth Printing Leicester Limited Printing of newspapers Harmsworth Printing Bristol Limited Printing of newspapers Harmsworth Printing Plymouth Limited Printing of newspapers High Speed Bagging Company Limited Provision of polybagging services JobsGroup.
net Limited Provision of internet recruitment services Jobsite UK Worldwide Limited Provision of internet recruitment services LetJoKnow Limited Provision of internet recruitment services Loot Limited Publication of Loot Motors.
co. uk Limited Provision of internet classi ed car services Of ce Recruit Limited Provision of internet recruitment services Oil Careers Limited Provision of internet recruitment services Primelocation Limited Provision of internet property services Production Base Limited Provision of internet recruitment services DMG Broadcasting Limited Holding company Teletext Limited Provision of teletext services Teletext Holdings Limited Holding company Rentalsystems.
com Limited Internet based provision of Holiday villa accomodation lettings Rentalsystems.
com Limited Internet based provision of Holiday villa accomodation lettings Zambeasy.
com Limited Provision of internet recruitment services Northcliffe Media Limited Holding company of provincial newspaper group Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Continued 147 Companies below are all publishers of provincial newspapers, except where stated Admag Newspapers Limited Alderton Limited Bargain Pages Media Limited Bath News & Media Limited Blackmore Vale Media Limited Bristol News & Media Limited Central Independent News and Media Limited Cornwall & Devon Media Limited Courier Media Group Limited Derby Telegraph Media Group Limited Essex Chronicle Media Group Limited Express & Echo News & Media Limited Gloucestershire Media Limited Grimsby & Scunthorpe Media Group Limited Herald Express News & Media Limited Leicester Mercury Media Group Limited Lincolnshire Media Limited Mail News & Media Limited North Somerset News & Media Limited Northcliffe Fleet Services Limited Fleet and distribution services Northcliffe Local Media South East Limited Northcliffe Real Estate Limited Holding company for freehold and long leasehold properties Nottingham Post Media Group Limited Post & Times Series Limited South West Media Group Limited South West Wales Media Limited Staffordshire Sentinel News and Media Limited The Western Gazette Company Limited Western Morning News & Media Limited W. H. Y.
Publications Limited Lapcom Kft Publication of newspapers in Gynor and Szeged, Hungary Managed, incorporated and operating in Hungary RNS Avizo Holding International a. s. Publication of newspapers in Bratislava, Slovakia Managed, incorporated and operating in Slovakia Perex a. s. Publication of newspapers in Slovakia Managed, incorporated and operating in Slovakia Profesia s. r. o Digital publishing activities in Slovakia Managed, incorporated and operating in Slovakia TAU Online d. o. o.
Digital publishing activities in Croatia Managed, incorporated and operating in Croatia DMG Information, Inc Holding company Incorporated in the USA Risk Management Solutions Inc 96.3% Provider of risk management information on natural and other related perils Incorporated and operating in the USA RMSI Private Limited Information technology service provider, specialising in Geographic Information Incorporated and operating in India Systems G. I. S. and special solutions, and software development RMS Japan K. K. 77.0% Provider of risk management information on natural and other related perils Incorporated and operating in Japan Trepp, LLC Provider of commercial mortgage-backed securities and real estate information Incorporated and operating in the USA Lewtan Technologies, Inc Provider of asset-backed securities information Incorporated and operating in the USA www.
com 2008 148 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Continued Environmental Data Resources, Inc Provider of geographic based real estate information services Incorporated and operating in the USA Landmark Information Group Limited Provider of property and mapping information Prodat Systems plc Provider of property and mapping information Sitescope Limited Provider of property and mapping information Quest End Computer Services Limited Provider of systems to manage the exchange of valuation and survey information between lenders and surveyors Property & Portfolio Research, Inc Real estate information provider Incorporated and operating in the USA The Sanborn Map Company, Inc Provider of GIS and photogrammetric mapping services for Incorporated and operating in the USA government and engineering markets Genscape, Inc. 98.2% Provider of real time power supply and other energy information Incorporated and operating in the USA Genscape International, Inc.
Provider of real time power supply and other energy information Incorporated and operating in the USA Hobsons plc Careers and education information publishing and services Hobsons, Inc Careers and education information publishing and services Incorporated and operating in the USA Hobsons Australia Pty Limited Careers and education information publishing and services Incorporated and operating in Australia Apply Yourself, Inc Provider of recruitment technology and services Incorporated and operating in the USA Naviance, Inc Provider of planning and advice systems to high schools Incorporated and operating in the USA Enva Power, Inc Provider of real time power market intelligence Incorporated and operating in the USA Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 66.34% Publishing, training and events Adhesion Limited 66.34% Conventions Adhesion Group SA 66.34% Conventions Incorporated and operating in France American Metal Market, LLC 66.34% Publishing Incorporated and operating in the USA AMM Marketwatch, LLC 66.34% Information Services Incorporated and operating in the USA Asia Business Forum Singapore Pte Limited 59.71% Conferences Incorporated and operating in Singapore BCA Research, Inc 66.34% Information Services Incorporated and operating in Canada Business Conventions International SA 66.34% Conventions Incorporated and operating in France Carlcroft Limited 66.34% Publishing CEIC Holdings Limited 66.34% Information Services Incorporated and operating in Hong Kong Coaltrans Conferences Limited 63.02% Conferences EII Holdings, Inc 66.34% Investment holding company Incorporated and operating in the USA EII US, Inc 66.34% Investment holding company Incorporated and operating in the USA Euromoney Singapore Pte Limited 66.34% Training Incorporated and operating in Singapore Euromoney Funding UK Limited 66.34% Investment holding company Euromoney Hedging Limited 66.34% Investment Company Euromoney Institutional Investor Ventures Limited 66.34% Investment holding company Euromoney Jersey Finance Limited 66.34% Non-trading Incorporated in Jersey: operating in the UK Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Continued 149 Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limited 66.34% Publishing Incorporated in Jersey: operating in Hong Kong Euromoney Lending UK Limited 66.34% Investment holding company Euromoney Publications Jersey Limited 66.34% Non-trading Incorporated in Jersey: operating in the UK Euromoney Publications Overseas Limited 66.34% Dormant Euromoney Training, Inc 66.34% Training Incorporated and operating in the USA Euromoney US Holdings LP 66.34% Dormant Incorporated and operating in the USA Euromoney Yen Finance Limited 66.34% Investment Company Euromoney, Inc 66.34% Training Incorporated and operating in the USA Glenprint Limited 66.34% Publishing GSCS Benchmarks Limited 66.34% Publishing Gulf Publishing Company Limited 66.34% Publishing Incorporated and operating in the USA HedgeFund Intellegence Limited 66.34% Publishing Information Management Network, Inc 53.07% Conferences Incorporated and operating in the USA Institutional Investor, Inc 66.34% Publishing Incorporated and operating in the USA Internet Securities, Inc 62.36% Information Services Incorporated and operating in the USA Latin American Financial Publications, Inc 66.34% Publishing Incorporated and operating in the USA Managed Account Reports, LLC 66.34% Non-trading Incorporated and operating in the USA MB Marketwatch Limited 66.34% Information Services Metal Bulletin Canada, Inc 66.34% Investment holding company Incorporated and operating in Canada Metal Bulletin Holdings Corporation 66.34% Investment holding company Incorporated and operating in the USA Metal Bulletin Investments Limited 66.34% Investment holding company Metal Bulletin Limited 66.34% Publishing MIS Training UK Limited 66.34% Training Sea.
Net Limited 66.34% Non-trading Storas Holdings Pte Limited 59.71% Investment holding company Incorporated and operating in Singapore Telcap Limited 46.44% Publishing The Petroleum Economist Limited 66.34% Publishing Tipall Limited 66.34% Property Holding Total Derivatives Limited 51.94% Publishing World Link Publications Limited 66.34% Non-trading DMG World Media Limited Exhibition holding company DMG World Media UK Limited Trade publishing and exhibition management DMG Angex Limited Organisers of public exhibitions and magazine publishers DMG Antique Fairs Limited Organisers of antiques and collectors fairs DMG World Media Canada, Inc Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions Incorporated and operating in Canada DMG World Media USA Inc 96.9% Organisers of consumer exhibitions Incorporated and operating in USA iMedia Communications Inc 96.9% Conference Organiser Incorporated and operating in USA www.
com 2008 150 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Continued DMG World Media Dubai 2006 Limited Organisers of trade exhibitions Incorporated in Jersey: managed and operating in Dubai DMG World Media Abu Dhabi Limited Organisers of trade exhibitions Incorporated in Jersey: managed and operating in Abu Dhabi DMG World Media Australia Pty Limited Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions Incorporated and operating in Australia DMG World Media NZ Limited Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions Incorporated and operating in New Zealand George Little Management, Inc 96.9% Organisers of trade exhibitions Incorporated and operating in USA DMG Radio Holdings Pty Limited Radio investment holding company Incorporated and operating in Australia DMG Radio Investments Pty Limited Radio investment holding company Incorporated and operating in Australia DMG Radio Australia Pty Limited Radio operating holding company Incorporated and operating in Australia DMG Radio Coastal Pty Limited Radio operating holding company Incorporated and operating in Australia DMG Radio Adelaide Pty Ltd Radio operating holding company Incorporated and operating in Australia Festival City Broadcasters Pty Limited Commercial radio broadcaster of 5AA, Adelaide Incorporated and operating in Australia Nova 96.9 Pty Ltd Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 96.9, Sydney Incorporated and operating in Australia Nova 100 Pty Limited Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 100, Melbourne Incorporated and operating in Australia Nova 91.9 Pty Limited Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 91.9, Adelaide Incorporated and operating in Australia Nova 106.9 Pty Ltd Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 106.9, Brisbane Incorporated and operating in Australia Nova 100.3 Pty Limited Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 100.3, Melbourne Incorporated and operating in Australia Vega 95.3 Pty Ltd Commercial radio broadcaster of Vega 95.3, Sydney Incorporated and operating in Australia Vega 91.5 Pty Ltd Commercial radio broadcaster of Vega 91.5, Melbourne Incorporated and operating in Australia Star 104.5 Pty Ltd Commercial radio broadcaster of Star 104.5, Gosford Incorporated and operating in Australia Central activities Daily Mail and General Investments plc Financing company Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited Holding company Daily Mail International Limited Holding company DMG Investment Holdings Limited Holding company DMG Media Investments Limited Holding company Incorporated in Jersey: managed in the UK i Unless stated otherwise the whole of the Ordinary share capital of subsidiary undertakings is held directly by Daily Mail and General Trust plc where marked or indirectly by one of the Companys subsidiaries.
ii All subsidiaries, except where indicated, operate principally within the United Kingdom.
iii All principal subsidiaries have been included in the Group accounts.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 D FIVE IRE YE CTO AR RS F R INAN EPO CR IAL T C SU oM ntMAR inued Y 151 FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY GROUP INCOME STATEMENT The income statements, cash ow information and Balance Sheet information for 2005, 2006 and 2007 have been prepared under IFRS.
For the year ended 2004 this period has not been adjusted from UK GAAP as it is not practicable to restate these years reports in accordance with IFRS.
Due to differences between IFRS and UK GAAP, there are some comparative inconsistencies in the tables below.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 UK GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS m m m m m Revenue 2,108.5 2,136.3 2,176.0 2,235.1 2,311.7 Operating pro t before exceptional operating costs and amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets 283.6 283.4 300.4 322.4 316.9 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional operating costs 101.9 47.9 163.0 163.0 289.9 Operating pro t before share of results from joint ventures and associates 181.7 235.5 159.4 159.4 27.0 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 11.2 2.3 1.8 1.8 3.5 Total operating pro t 170.5 233.2 161.2 161.2 30.5 Other gains and losses 11.4 15.5 35.7 35.7 27.7 Pro t before net finance costs and tax 181.9 248.7 196.9 196.9 58.2 Net finance costs 59.7 53.4 54.8 54.8 126.3 Loss pro t before tax 122.2 195.3 142.1 142.1 68.1 Tax 54.8 39.9 20.3 20.3 84.7 Pro t for the year after tax 67.4 155.4 121.8 121.8 16.6 Discontinued operations 0.5 0.5 0.2 Equity interests of minority shareholders 5.7 13.3 15.3 15.3 16.8 Pro t for the year 61.7 142.1 107.0 107.0 Pro t before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, exceptional items and taxation 234.1 237.3 288.2 288.2 261.8 Basic earnings per share 15.5p 35.9p 60.8p 27.4p 0.1p Diluted loss earnings per share 15.4p 35.8p 60.7p 27.2p 0.1 p Adjusted earnings per share before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items 41.6p 43.2p 46.4p 49.3p 47.9p www.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DAILY M DIR AE IL A CTO NR D G S R EE NP EO RR AT C L TRU on StT P inuL eC d 153 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Daily Mail and General Trust plc for the year ended 28th September, 2008 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 18.
These parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Daily Mail and General Trust plc for the year ended 28th September, 2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that speci c information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements.
OPINION In our opinion: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 28th September 2008: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 26th November, 2008 www.
com 2008 154 N CO OM TE PS T ANO T Y BH AE C LAN OC ME S PAH NE Y B ET ALANCE SHEET UK GAAP Continued COMPANY BALANCE SHEET as at 28th September, 2008 2008 2007 Note m m FIXED ASSETS Intangible xed assets 4 90.1 126.9 Tangible xed assets 5 0.4 0.6 Investments: Group undertakings 6 1,825.6 1,861.1 Other investments 7 1.0 1.1 1,826.6 1,862.2 CURRENT ASSETS Debtors amounts falling due within one year 8 147.8 172.4 Cash and cash equivalents 9 0.1 147.8 172.5 CREDITORS Amounts falling due within one year 10 204.9 153.5 Net current liabilities assets 57.1 19.0 Total assets less current liabilities 1,860.0 2,008.7 CREDITORS Amounts falling due after more than one year 11 975.4 914.2 Provisions for liabilities 12 0.8 1.3 NET ASSETS 883.8 1,093.2 CAPITAL AND RESERVES Called up share capital 14 49.1 49.4 Share premium account 14 12.4 12.4 Shares held in treasury 14 93.5 44.4 Capital redemption reserve 15 1.1 0.8 Pro t and loss account 16 914.7 1,075.0 EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS 883.8 1,093.2 The accounts on pages 154 to 161 were approved by the Directors and authorised for issue on 26th November, 2008.
They were signed on their behalf by: Rothermere M. W. H. Morgan Directors Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO TH NE C OTE OS T MPO T ANH Y B E C AO LA MN PC AE S NY B HE AE LT U ANCE S K GH AE AE P C T U oK G ntin A uA eP d 155 NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The separate financial statements of the Company are prepared Goodwill and other intangible assets under the historical cost convention, modi ed to include the Impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible assets are revaluation to fair value of certain financial instruments as carried out at the end of the first financial year after described below, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and acquisition and where there is any indication of impairment.
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
The Purchased intangible assets relating to newspaper publishing following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies rights, titles, radio licences and certain other intangible under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
assets are capitalised and amortised through the pro t and Pro t for the financial year loss account over the lower of their useful economic lives and As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a a period of 20 years.
separate pro t and loss account for the Company has not Tangible xed assets been included in these accounts.
The Companys loss after Depreciation is provided on all tangible xed assets at rates tax for the year, calculated on a UK GAAP basis, was 141.8 calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated million 2007 pro t 157.8 million.
residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its Impact of new accounting standards expected useful life.
All of the Companys tangible xed In the current year, the Company has adopted the following assets are artworks with a residual value at least equal to standards: cost and therefore no depreciation has been applied in the current period.
Amendment to FRS 3 Reporting Financial Performance effective for periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2007.
Foreign exchange The amendment clari es the required treatment of gains and Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional losses on remeasurement and derecognition of certain currency are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the financial instruments.
The adoption of this standard did not date of the transaction.
At each Balance Sheet date, monetary have a signi cant impact on the Companys financial items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at statements where these are included in publicly available the rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
NonConsolidated Financial Statements which include disclosures monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in that comply with FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on Disclosures.
the date when fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a Amendment to FRS 26 Financial Instrument measurement foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences effective for periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2007. arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the The amendment implements recognition and derecognition retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income criteria of IAS 39.
The adoption of this standard did not have a statement for the period.
signi cant impact on the Companys financial statements.
Investments FRS 29 Financial Instruments Disclosures effective for Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2007.
The adoption provision for impairment, where appropriate.
of FRS 29 did not have an impact on the Companys financial statements due to the exemption provided in the standard Other investments which are classi ed as either held for which states that disclosure of financial instruments is not trading or available-for-sale are measured at fair value or at required in the parent company financial statements where cost less provision for impairment where fair value cannot be these are included in publicly available Consolidated reliably determined.
Financial Statements which include disclosures that comply Where securities are held for trading purposes, gain and with FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net Amendment to FRS 17 Retirement Bene ts effective for pro t or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale periods beginning on or after 6th January, 2007.
The investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair amendment is a further alignment with IAS 19 such that value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is quoted securities are valued at current bid price rather than disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the the mid-market price.
The adoption of this standard has had cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is no impact on the Companys financial statements.
included in the net pro t or loss for the period.
Impairment charges are recorded in the pro t and loss account when they At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, occur.
the following standards have been issued but not applied to the information in these financial statements since they do Taxation not apply to this reporting period.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using Amendment to FRS 20 Share-based Payment Vesting the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Conditions and Cancellations effective for periods beginning enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in on or after 1st January, 2009.
The amendment clari es that full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the vesting conditions are service conditions and performance Balance Sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, conditions only.
Other features of a share-based payment are at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they not vesting conditions.
It also speci es that all cancellations, crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and same accounting treatment.
The Group does not expect a expenditure in taxation computations in periods different signi cant impact from the adoption of this standard.
from those in which they are included in financial statements.
com 2008 156 NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP Continued 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
from the revaluation of xed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to policies, which are set out on pages 36 and 41 of the Financial remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to and Treasury Review and approved by the Board of Directors, the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they which provide written principles on the use of financial will be recovered.
derivatives consistent with the Companys risk management strategy.
The Company does not use derivative financial Financial instruments instruments for speculative purposes.
Financial assets Trade debtors The Company does not apply hedge accounting except for fair Trade debtors do not carry any interest and are stated at their value hedges.
Gains and losses arising on derivatives that nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for form part of net investment hedge or cash ow hedge estimated irrecoverable amounts.
relationships in the Consolidated Financial Statements are recorded in the Pro t and Loss Account in the Company.
Available-for-sale investments Investments and financial assets are recognised and Fair value hedges fide-recognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an The Companys policy is to use derivative instruments investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery primarily interest rate swaps to convert a proportion of its of the investment within the time frame established by the xed rate debt to oating rates in order to hedge the interest market concerned, and are measured at fair value, including rate risk.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are transaction costs.
designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair value Cash and cash equivalents of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, shorthedged risk to the extent that the hedge relationship is term deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments effective.
When the hedging instrument expires or is sold, that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and terminated, or exercised, or no longer quali es for hedge are subject to an insigni cant risk of changes in value.
accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial instruments disclosures Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions Company are classi ed according to the substance of the provided in FRS 29 which states that disclosure of financial contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument instruments is not required in parent company financial is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets statements where these are included in publicly available of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Consolidated Financial Statements which include disclosures that comply with FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Trade creditors Disclosures.
Trade creditors are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Cash ow statement The Company has utilised the exemptions provided under FRS Capital market and bank borrowings 1 Revised and has not presented a cash ow statement.
A Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured consolidated cash ow statement has been presented in the at fair value which is equal to net proceeds at inception, and Groups Report and Accounts.
are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
A portion of the Companys Related party transactions bonds are subject to fair value hedge accounting and this The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions of FRS 8 portion is adjusted for the movement in the hedged risk to the which states that disclosure of related party transactions is extent hedge effectiveness is achieved.
Any difference not required in the parent company financial statements between the proceeds, net of transaction costs and the when those statements are presented together with its settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over Consolidated Financial Statements.
the term of the borrowing.
Share-based payments Equity instruments The Company operates the Groups LTIP and other Group Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at share-based payment schemes, details of which can be found the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
in note 38 of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Balance Sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Company uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
These have included currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP Continued 157 3 EMPLOYEES 2008 2007 Number Number Average number of persons employed by the Group by activity including Directors 11 11 2008 2007 m m Total staff costs comprised: Wages and salaries 5.6 5.4 Share-based payments 1.4 2.1 Social security costs 0.8 0.6 Pension costs 0.9 0.3 8.7 8.4 4 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Trade marks m Cost At 30th September, 2007 146.0 Disposals 10.0 At 28th September, 2008 136.0 Accumulated amortisation At 30th September, 2007 19.1 Charge for the year 6.9 Impairment 25.5 Disposals 5.6 At 28th September, 2008 45.9 Net book value 2007 126.9 Net book value 2008 90.1 The Company tests goodwill and intangible assets at the end of the first financial year after acquisition and where there is any indication of impairment, or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill or intangibles assets might be impaired.
When testing for impairment, the recoverable amounts for all the Companys income generating units IGUs are measured at their value in use by discounting future expected cash ows.
These calculations use cash ow projections based on management approved budgets and projections which re ect managements current experience and future expectations of the markets in which the IGU operates.
The impairment charge recognised in the year relates to the Companys interests in its local media IGUs.
This has been determined using the methodology set out in note 17 to the Groups Annual Report and Accounts.
The risk adjusted discount rate used was 9.5%.
5 TANGIBLE ASSETS Plant and equipment m Cost At 30th September, 2007 0.8 Disposals 0.2 At end of year 0.6 Accumulated depreciation At beginning and end of year 0.2 Net book value 2007 0.6 Net book value 2008 0.4 www.
com 2008 158 NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP Continued 6 INVESTMENTS IN GROUP UNDERTAKINGS as listed on pages 146 to 150 Cost Provision Net book value m m m At beginning of year 1,862.8 1.7 1,861.1 Additions 159.4 159.4 Disposals 196.6 1.7 194.9 At end of year 1,825.6 1,825.6 7 OTHER INVESTMENTS m Cost or valuation At beginning of year 1.1 Provided during year 0.2 Exchange adjustment 0.1 At end of year 1.0 Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are held as available-for-sale.
They are recorded at fair value and are analysed as follows: 2008 2007 m m Unlisted JEGI Internet Economy Partners, L. P. 1.0 1.1 The Company owns a 23% share of the partnership capital.
8 DEBTORS 2008 2007 m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade debtors 2.9 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 70.4 88.6 Prepayments and accrued income 8.5 1.5 Corporation tax 65.9 67.1 Derivative financial assets 3.0 12.3 147.8 172.4 The Companys corporation tax debtor represents amounts due from subsidiaries for Group relief and payments made to UK HM Revenue and Customs on account of the 2007 liability.
9 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2008 2007 m m Cash and cash equivalents 0.1 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP Continued 159 10 CREDITORS 2008 2007 m m Due within one year Bank overdrafts 4.0 2.7 Loan notes 2.5 2.8 Interest payable 32.4 32.9 Amounts owing to Group undertakings 163.8 112.3 Accruals and deferred income 0.6 2.2 Derivative financial liabilities 1.6 0.6 204.9 153.5 Loan notes attract interest at approximately LIBOR minus 1% and were issued as part of the consideration for various acquisitions.
The loan notes are repayable at the option of the loan note holder.
The unamortised issue costs amount to 3.4 million 2007 3.7 million, the unamortised premia 15.1 million 2007 16.2 million.
Details of the fair value of the Companys bonds are set out in note 29 of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts.
The book value of the Companys other borrowings equates to fair value.
The Companys bank loans are denominated in US dollars and Sterling.
com 2008 160 NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP Continued 11 CREDITORS Continued The maturity pro le of the Companys borrowings is as follows: Overdrafts Bank loans Bonds Loan notes Total m m m m m 2008 Within one year 4.0 2.5 6.5 Between two and five years 28.2 28.2 Over five years 77.2 838.9 916.1 105.4 838.9 944.3 4.0 105.4 838.9 2.5 950.8 2007 Within one year 2.7 2.8 5.5 Between two and five years 67.6 67.6 Over five years 838.5 838.5 67.6 838.5 906.1 2.7 67.6 838.5 2.8 911.6 12 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES 2008 2007 Note m m Deferred taxation 13 0.2 0.2 Other provisions i 0.6 1.1 0.8 1.3 i Movements on other provisions were as follows: At beginning of year 1.1 1.5 Utilised during year 0.5 0.4 At end of year 0.6 1.1 The provision relates to probable costs associated with subsidiary disposal commitments and is expected to be utilised within the next 12 months.
13 DEFERRED TAXATION 2008 2007 m m Other timing differences 0.2 0.2 Movements on the provision for deferred taxation were as follows: 2008 2007 m m At beginning of year 0.2 0.2 LTIP charge 0.1 Net credit to pro t and loss account 0.1 At end of year 0.2 0.2 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP Continued 161 14 RESERVES Share premium account 2008 2007 m m At beginning of year 12.4 9.7 Issued on shares 2.7 At end of year 12.4 12.4 Shares held in treasury 2008 2007 m m At beginning of year 44.4 63.1 Additions 88.3 32.8 Own shares released on vesting of share options 21.0 4.9 Own shares cancelled 18.2 46.6 At end of year 93.5 44.4 The Companys investment in its own shares is classi ed within shareholders funds as Shares held in treasury.
The treasury shares are considered to be a realised loss for the purposes of calculating distributable reserves.
Details of the Companys share capital can be found within note 34 of the Groups Annual Report and Accounts.
15 CAPITAL REDEMPTION RESERVE m At beginning of year 0.8 On cancellation of Ordinary shares 0.3 At end of year 1.1 16 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT m At beginning of year 1,075.0 Net loss for the year 85.5 Dividends paid 56.3 On cancellation of A Ordinary shares 18.2 Other movements on share option schemes 0.3 At end of year 914.7 Total reserves 2007 898.2 Total reserves 2008 834.7 The Company estimates that 611.7 million of the Companys pro t and loss account reserve is not distributable 2007 596.1 million.
17 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES At 28th September, 2008 the Company had guaranteed borrowing facilities of subsidiaries under which 60.0 million 2007 82.9 million were outstanding.
The Company had also guaranteed a subsidiarys interest rate derivatives with a principal value of 489.6 million 2007 186.9 million and letters of credit of 9.1 million 2007 5.7 million.
The Company has also issued standby letters of credit in favour of the Trustees of the Groups fide ned bene t pension fund amounting to 64.3 million 2007 nil.
18 CONTROLLING PARTY The Companys ultimate controlling party is the Viscount Rothermere, the Companys Chairman.
