Notes to the Company Financial Statements 37.
Accounting policies These financial statements have been prepared in pounds sterling under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain Investments and Financial Instruments in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Dividends Dividends received are included in the accounts in the period the related dividends are actually received.
Property, plant & equipment PP&E PP&E assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on PP&E assets to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful economic life on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Equipment 10% - 25% Computer equipment 33% Investments in associates and subsidiaries Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are included in the financial statements at cost less provisions for impairment.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Company determines the classification of its available-for-sale financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end.
When availablefor-sale financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
107 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the Company Financial Statements continued 37.
Accounting policies Deferred taxation continued Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: provision is made for tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Issue expenses and share premium account Cost of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issue of share capital.
Foreign currencies The functional currency for the Company is pounds sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Pensions The Company contributes to the personal pension arrangements of Executive Directors and employees up to a specified percentage of salary in lieu of a formal corporate scheme.
Contributions in lieu of pensions are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Operating leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Share based payments The Company issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments as an incentive to certain key management and staff.
Equity-settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an actuarial binomial model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
108 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
