Notes to the Company Financial Statements 37.
Accounting policies These financial statements have been prepared in pounds sterling under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain Investments and Financial Instruments in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
Dividends Dividends received are included in the accounts in the period the related dividends are actually received.
Property, plant & equipment PP&E PP&E assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on PP&E assets to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful economic life on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Equipment 10% - 25% Computer equipment 33% Investments in associates and subsidiaries Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries and associates are included in the financial statements at cost less provisions for impairment.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Company determines the classification of its available-for-sale financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end.
When availablefor-sale financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
107 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
