Company Report of the Auditors Independent auditors report We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 37 to to the members of Dana 52.
These parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Petroleum plc policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable directors and auditors United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent Company Report of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Report of the Directors includes that specific information presented in the Chairman and Chief Executives Statement and Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review and Future Activities section of the Report of the Directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Report on Directors Remuneration, the Chairman and Chief Executives Statement, the Business Review and the Financial Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
104 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
In our opinion: Opinion the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Aberdeen 27 March 2009 105 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
