Notes to the Group Financial Statements The Groups financial statements of Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 December 01.
Authorisation of financial 2008 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2009 and the balance statements and statement sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Thomas P Cross and David A MacFarlane.
Dana of compliance with IFRS Petroleum plc is a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in Scotland.
The companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
The following accounting policies are applied consistently in dealing with items which are 02.
Accounting policies for the considered material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
Group financial statements Basis of accounting The financial information has been prepared using accounting policies consistent with IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations adopted by the European Union and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for certain fair value adjustments required by those accounting policies.
Accounting estimates The Groups accounting policies make use of estimates and judgements in the following areas: Goodwill, Impairment, Depreciation, Decommissioning, Investment in Associates, Derivative Financial Instruments and Share-based Payments.
These are described in more detail in the relevant accounting policy and related notes to the Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings having eliminated all inter-company transactions and balances.
Acquisitions Business combinations are dealt with on the basis of the purchase method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets acquired or assets given up in the case of swap transactions, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of completion of the acquisition, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of are included excluded in the consolidated income statement from the date on which control legally passes.
Joint Ventures The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and production through unincorporated joint ventures and production sharing contracts together Joint Ventures.
The Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of these Joint Ventures as jointly controlled assets.
In addition, where Dana acts as operator to the Joint Venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the Joint Venture are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups current Joint Venture interests are detailed on pages 115 to 116.
63 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 02.
Accounting policies for the Revenue Group financial statements Revenue reflects actual sales value, net of VAT and overriding royalties, in respect of liftings sold.
Due to the fact that the Group follows the entitlement basis, adjustments in respect continued of overlift liftings greater than production entitlement and underlift production entitlement greater than liftings are recorded in against cost of sales at market value.
Where appropriate entitlement revenue also includes an allowance for gross up for tax paid on the Companys behalf by host governments.
Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis and is disclosed separately on the face of the income statement.
Foreign currencies The functional currency for material subsidiaries is either Pounds Sterling, Norwegian Kroner or US Dollar.
Transactions in foreign currencies during the year are recorded in the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of assets and liabilities of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into pounds sterling at year-end rates of exchange, together with those differences resulting from the restatement of profits and losses from average to year-end rates, are taken directly to the cumulative translation reserve.
All other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions denominated in local currencies are re-measured into the functional currency at the rate ruling on the date that they arose.
Oil and gas expenditure The Group accounts for oil and gas expenditure as follows: Intangible Assets Exploration and Evaluation Assets Capitalisation Certain costs other than payments to acquire the legal right to explore incurred prior to acquiring the rights to explore are charged directly to the income statement.
All costs incurred after the rights to explore an area have been obtained, such as geological and geophysical costs and other direct costs of exploration drilling, trenching, sampling and technical feasibility and commercial viability activities and appraisal are accumulated and capitalised as intangible exploration and evaluation E&E assets.
E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities.
At completion of appraisal activities if technical feasibility is demonstrated and commercial reserves are discovered, then, following development sanction, the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset will be reclassified as a development and production asset, but only after the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset has been assessed for impairment, and where appropriate, its carrying value adjusted.
If after completion of appraisal activities in an area, it is not possible to determine technical feasibility and commercial viability or if the legal right to explore expires or if the Company decides not to continue exploration and evaluation activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful exploration and evaluation is written off to the income statement in the period the relevant events occur.
Impairment If and when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an E&E asset may exceed its recoverable amount an impairment review is performed.
For E&E assets when there are such indications, an impairment test is carried out by grouping the E&E assets with the development & production assets belonging to the same geographic segment to form the Cash Generating Unit CGU for impairment testing.
The equivalent combined carrying value of the CGU is compared against the CGUs recoverable amount and any resulting impairment loss is written off to the income statement.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
64 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 02.
Accounting policies for the Property, Plant and Equipment Development and Production Assets Group financial statements Capitalisation continued Development and production D&P assets are accumulated into single field cost centres and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves and bringing them into production together with the E&E expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves previously transferred from E&E assets as outlined in the policy above.
Depreciation Costs relating to each single field cost centre are depleted on a unit of production method based on the commercial proven and probable reserves for that cost centre.
Development assets are not depreciated until production commences.
The amortisation calculation takes account of the estimated future costs of development of recognised proven and probable reserves, based on current price levels.
Changes in reserve quantities and cost estimates are recognised prospectively from the last reporting date.
Currently there are no significant items of property, plant and equipment deemed to have different useful lives.
Impairment A review is performed for any indication that the value of the Groups D&P assets may be impaired.
For D&P assets when there are such indications, an impairment test is carried out on the CGU.
Each CGU is identified in accordance with IAS 36.
Danas CGUs are those assets which generate largely independent cash flows and are normally, but not always, single development or production areas.
If necessary, additional depletion is charged through the income statement if the capitalised costs of the CGU exceed the associated estimated future discounted cash flows of the related commercial oil and gas reserves.
Asset Purchases and Disposals When a commercial transaction involves the purchase of a D&P asset in exchange for an E&E asset, the transaction is accounted for at fair value with the difference between fair value and cost being taken to the income statement.
When a commercial transaction involves the exchange of E&E assets of similar size and characteristics, no fair value calculation is performed.
The capitalised costs of the asset being sold are transferred to the asset being acquired.
However, where the size and characteristics of the E&E assets significantly differ, the transaction is accounted for at fair value with the difference between fair value and cost being taken to the income statement.
Proceeds from the entire disposal of an E&E asset are deducted from the capitalised costs of the asset with any surplus deficit taken to the income statement as a gain or loss on sale.
Proceeds from a part disposal of an E&E asset are deducted from the capitalised cost of the asset with any surplus taken to the income statement as a gain on sale.
Proceeds from the entire disposal of a D&P asset, or any part thereof, are taken to the income statement together with the requisite proportional net book value of the asset, or part thereof, being sold.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in the balance sheet.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to the appropriate CGU for the purpose of impairment testing.
65 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 02.
Accounting policies for the Decommissioning Group financial statements The Group recognises the full discounted cost of decommissioning when the obligation to rectify environmental damage arises, principally on development sanction.
The amount continued recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
A corresponding D&P asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the D&P asset.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the D&P asset.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning provision is included as a finance cost.
Property, plant and equipment other than D&P assets Property, plant and equipment other than D&P assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight-line basis at the following annual rates: Equipment 10% 25% Computer equipment 33% Finance costs and debt Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of D&P assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures in respect of the asset are incurred and activities that are necessary to develop an asset are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when the development is substantially complete.
Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Arrangement fees and issue costs are amortised and charged to the income statement as finance costs over the term of the debt.
Investment in associates The Groups interest in its associate, being that entity over which it is deemed to have significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in its associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
The Groups statement of change in equity reflects the Groups share of the fair value of the associates net assets value on initial recognition and any subsequent movement in the fair value of the net assets of the associate required to be recognised directly in equity.
Financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group: to take into account movement in the fair values assigned at the date of the acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Group determines the classification of its available-for-sale financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end.
When availablefor-sale financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories comprise materials and equipment, which are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in bringing the materials and equipment to its present condition and location.
66 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 02.
Accounting policies for the Trade and other receivables Group financial statements Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the original invoiced amount.
Other receivables, excluding underlifted amounts, are measured at nominal value.
Underlifted continued amounts are measured at market value in accordance with industry practice.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables, excluding overlifted amounts, are measured at cost.
Overlifted amounts are measured at market value in accordance with industry practice.
Convertible bonds The net proceeds received from the issue of convertible bonds are split between a liability element and an equity component at the date of issue.
The fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, is included in equity and is not remeasured.
The liability component is carried at amortised cost.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bonds.
Share issue expenses and share premium account Costs of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issue of share capital.
Taxation Current Tax Current tax is recognised as a liability to the extent unpaid or if the amount paid exceeds the amount due it is recognised as an asset.
Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid recovered from the taxation authorities, using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred Tax Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither, accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future income tax profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
67 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Notes to the Group Financial Statements continued 02.
Accounting policies for the Petroleum Revenue Tax and Net Profit Interest Tax Group financial statements UK Petroleum Revenue Tax PRT and Norwegian Net Profit Interest NPI tax are treated as income taxes and deferred PRT and deferred NPI tax is calculated and provided for.
Current continued UK PRT and Norwegian NPI tax are charged as tax expenses on the chargeable field profits included in the income statement and are deductible for UK and Norwegian corporation tax respectively.
Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension arrangements of Executive Directors and employees up to a specified percentage of salary in lieu of a formal corporate scheme.
Contributions in lieu of pensions are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and movements in oil and gas prices.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are remeasured at their fair value at each subsequent reporting date.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Fair value estimation of financial instruments traded in active markets such as availablefor-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
Other financial instruments are valued using standard pricing models or discounted cash flow techniques.
Operating leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Maintenance expenditure Expenditure on major maintenance, refits or repairs is capitalised where it enhances the life or performance of an asset above its originally assessed standard of performance: replaces an asset or part of an asset which was separately depreciated and which is then written off, or restores the economic benefits of an asset which has been fully depreciated.
All other maintenance expenditure is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Share based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share Based Payment to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as of 1 January 2005.
The Group issues both equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments as an incentive to certain key management and staff.
Equity-settled share based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an actuarial binomial model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of nontransferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
For cash-settled share based payments, a liability is recognised based on the current fair value determined at each reporting date and that portion of the employees services to which the payment relates that has been received by the reporting date.
68 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 02.
Accounting policies for the Impact of new standards and interpretations Group financial statements Adopted for 2008 continued No IFRS IFRIC becoming effective during the year have impacted on the results or disclosures of the Group.
Not yet adopted International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS Accounting Periods Commencing After IFRS 2 Amendment Share Based Payment vesting conditions 1 January 2009 and cancellations IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations 1 January 2009 IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs 1 January 2009 IAS 27 Amended Consolidated and Separate Financial 1 July 2009 Statements IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation 1 January 2009 IFRS 7 Amendment Improving Disclosures about Financial 1 January 2009 Instruments The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements when adopted or recognised from the accounting periods noted above but may result in consequential changes to the accounting policies and other note disclosures.
An amendment to IFRS 2 Share Based Payment vesting conditions and cancellations was issued in January 2008, clarifying that only service conditions and performance conditions are vesting conditions, and other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
In addition, it specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The amendment has not yet been adopted by the EU hence the Group has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adopting these amendments.
Upon adoption of the revised version of IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group will be required to continue applying the purchase method of accounting to business combinations, but the standard will introduce some changes to the existing treatment.
Assets and liabilities arising from business combinations before the date of adoption by the Group will not be restated and thus there will be no effect on the Groups reported income or net assets on adoption.
Upon adoption of IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements, separate presentation of owner and non-owner changes in equity will be required through the introduction of the statement of comprehensive income.
Whenever there is a restatement or reclassification, an additional balance sheet, as at the beginning of the earliest period presented, will be required.
The adoption of the revised standard will not impact on the Groups reported income or net assets.
An amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements was issued in January 2008.
This requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control.
Such transactions will no longer result in goodwill gains or losses.
When control is lost, any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value and a gain or loss recognised in the profit and loss.
Upon adoption of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the Group will be required to classify as equity certain financial instruments provided certain criteria are met.
The instruments to be classified as equity are puttable financial instruments and those instruments that impose an obligation on the entity to deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation.
69 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
