Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Kesa Electricals plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider for the 15 months ended 3 April 8 which comprise the Group whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
income statement, the Group statement of recognised income and The other information comprises the Directors report, the Chairmans expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash ow statement statement, the operating and financial review and the corporate and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been governance statement together with all other information as set out prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material We have reported separately on the parent Company financial inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the 15 months ended 3 April do not extend to any other information.
8 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements European Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and adequately disclosed.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information members as a body in accordance with Section 35 of the Companies and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial Opinion statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, The information given in the Directors report includes that specic of the state of the Groups affairs as at 3 April 8 and of its information presented in the operating and financial review that is cross profit and cash ows for the 15 months then ended.
referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received IAS Regulation.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if The information given in the Directors report is consistent with information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and the Group financial statements.
other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code London 6 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 4 June 8 Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 39
