Statement of Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing financial statements of the Group comply with the Companies Act 6 the accounts.
and Article 4 of the IAS regulation and that the financial statements of the Company comply with the Companies Act 6.
They are also Statement of Directors responsibilities for accounts responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group The following statement which should be read in conjunction with the and hence from taking reasonable steps for the prevention and auditors report set out on page 39, is made with a view to detection of fraud and other irregularities.
distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 4 to 1 and 1 to 1 7, the Group has used appropriate accounting Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which the Company and the Group and for the profit or loss for that period.
they consider to be applicable have been followed.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: The maintenance and integrity of the Kesa Electricals website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented adopted by the European Union.
State that the Company financial statements comply with UK GAAP.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Kesa Electricals plc dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are requirements in preparing the financial statements.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
38 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8
