Shareholder information Registrar and transfer ofce Share dealing service All enquiries relating to shareholdings should be addressed to the We are offering an internet and telephone share dealing services Companys Registrar, as follows: for shareholders in certain jurisdictions in conjunction with Computershare, our Registrars.
By Mail: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Internet dealing: Bridgwater Road Commission is 0.5 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of Bristol BS99 6ZZ 15.00.
Stamp duty at 0.5 per cent is payable on purchases.
Up to 90 day limit orders available on shares.
By phone: 44 0 870 707 1102 Service is available to place orders out of market hours.
co. uk Telephone dealing: Please indicate that you are a shareholder of Kesa Electricals plc Commission is 1 per cent, subject to a minimum charge of 15.00.
Investor Centre The share price at which you deal will be confirmed to you whilst you Investor Centre is a free, secure share management website are still on the telephone.
This service allows you to view your Service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday to Friday share portfolio and see the latest market price of your shares, excluding bank holidays.
check your dividend payment and tax information, change your Call 44 0 870 703 0084. address, update payment instructions and receive your shareholder communications online.
To take advantage of this service, please log No forms will need to be completed in advance and the settlement in at www-uk.
com investor and enter your Shareholder period is ten business days after your trade has been dealt in the Reference Number and Company Code.
The information can be market, for both internet and telephone share dealing.
Further found on your last dividend voucher or share certicate.
information and copies of the terms and conditions of both these services can be obtained by calling 44 0 870 703 0119. Dividend mandates If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank account through Gifting shares to your family or to charity the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Services system, you To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please should contact our Registrars for a Dividend Mandate Form or apply ask the Registrars for a Gift Transfer Form.
If you only have a small online at www-uk.
number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to ShareGift, the share donation Electronic shareholder communications charity registered charity number 1052686.
The relevant share transfer We have entered into an arrangement with our Registrars whereby form may be obtained from the Registrars.
Further information about shareholders are able to elect to receive shareholder communications the scheme is available from the ShareGift Internet Site from the Company electronically, rather than in paper format via the www.
We actively encourage shareholders to register now for our electronic TM communications service through the eTree campaign run by our Registrars in conjunction with The Woodland Trust.
When you register for electronic communications, a tree will be planted on your behalf with the Woodland Trusts Tree For All scheme in a UK area selected for reforestation.
The service enables you to save paper, contributing to a greener countryside and reducing harmful carbon dioxide emissions which impact climate change.
In order to receive shareholder communications such as notices of shareholder meetings and annual report and accounts electronically rather than by post, you should register your details via the Investor Centre information and services page of the Kesa Electricals plc website www.
You can also register for electronic communications via www.
108 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 Designed and produced by 85four Principal photography by Bob Wheeler Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO14001, FSC certied and CarbonNeutral This has been printed on revive 75 Silk paper.
The paper has been independently certied according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC and awarded NAPM Recycled Mark.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 Kesa Electricals plc Registered address 22 24 Ely Place London EC1N 6TE 44 0 20 7269 1400 Registered in England Company number: 04232413 For information visit www.
