2 Financial risk management Treasury policy Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
The Board establishes the Groups financial policies and the Chief Executive Officer CEO establishes objectives in line with these policies.
The Finance Directors Committee and the Treasury Committee, under the supervision of the Group Finance Director GFD, are then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the Central and Operating Company Treasury teams.
Approved Treasury Management Guidelines define and classify risks and also determine, by category of transaction, specific approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk, settlement risk and liquidity risk.
In accordance with the aforementioned policies the Group only enters into derivative transactions related to operating and or financial assets or liabilities or anticipated future transactions.
The Group does not enter into trading derivative transactions without underlying assets or liabilities.
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises because affiliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products.
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group accounts into sterling.
Interest rate risk comprises the interest price risk that results from borrowing at variable and fixed rates and the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing.
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios.
Credit risk is managed by investing in liquid assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Groups Treasury Management Guidelines.
The Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions.
As a result of its strong cash flow the Group does not expect any refinancing issues as current loan agreements expire.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, the Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impairment of receivables.
Affiliated companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally.
The Treasury Committee reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Groups intragroup loans portfolio on a monthly basis.
Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
It uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of Boardapproved policies and guidelines which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee.
These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive monthly reports of the activities of Group treasury.
Capital management The principal sources of capital to fund the Groups operations are equity, bank borrowings and operating leases on properties.
Group policy is to borrow centrally to meet funding requirements: funds are then lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
In considering the balance of sources of finance, the Group seeks to maintain financing from equity, debt and property leases relative to earnings and cash flows at levels consistent, over time, with similar companies rated investment grade by publicly recognised rating agencies.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 7 Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial period ended 30 April 2008 2 Financial risk management continued Market Risk 1 Foreign exchange risk The Group publishes its financial statements in sterling and conducts business in several foreign currencies.
It is therefore subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Groups sterling transaction costs and the translation of results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign currency net assets by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies, primarily the euro.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net borrowings held in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in the income statement.
At 30 April 2008, if the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 3.9m 2007:.
m lower, mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses on translation of euro-denominated trade receivables, offset by foreign exchange gains on translation of euro-denominated borrowings.
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management.
Permission of Group treasury is required before a foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken.
Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and the hedge is monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
Treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk relating to committed transactions must be hedged.
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
At 30 April 2008, 7 per cent 31 January 2007: per cent of the Groups revenue and 83 per cent 31 January 2007: 73 per cent of the Groups retail profit were denominated in euros.
Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation, the Demerger Award Plan charge, valuation losses and amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
At 30 April 2008, if the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, retail profit for the period would have been 1 2.7m 31 January 2007: 1 3.7m.
At 30 April 2008, if the euro had weakened by 10 per cent against sterling with all other variables held constant, retail profit for the period would have been 132. m 31 January 2007: 13.
If the euro had weakened by 1 per cent against sterling, with all other variables held constant, equity would have been 0.2m 31 January 2007: 0.2m lower, arising mainly from foreign exchange losses gains on translation of euro-denominated equity securities classified as available for sale.
If the euro had weakened by 10 per cent against sterling, with all other variables held constant, equity would have been 1. m 31 January 2007: 1.7m lower, arising mainly from foreign exchange losses gains on translation of euro-denominated equity securities classified as available for sale.
2 Price risk The Group is exposed to equity price risk on equity investments held by the Group, which are included in available for sale investments on the consolidated balance sheet, but the quantum of such is not material.
3 Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk In February 200 interest rate swap contracts were entered into for a period of three years, which had the effect of fixing the interest rate costs on 300m of longer-term borrowings.
Following the receipt of proceeds of sale of BUT, the Group repaid all outstanding borrowings under its primary credit facility.
This extinguished the Groups exposure to interest rate risk and consequently the interest rate swap contracts were terminated.
The treasury policy requires that at least 30 per cent, but no more than 70 per cent of Group long-term borrowings must be fixed, and this will be applied when there is a need for longer-term borrowings.
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 10 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, profit before tax to 30 April 2008 would have been 0.1m 31 January 2007: 0.2m lower.
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, profit before tax to 30 April 2008 would have been 1. m 31 January 2007: 1.9m lower.
8 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 2 Financial risk management continued Credit risk Interest rate swap, foreign exchange and deposit transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a long-term credit rating of A or better.
Group treasury monitors the credit exposure of the Group to its counterparties and the credit ratings of those counterparties on a monthly basis.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
The Group maintains committed bank facilities of sufficient maturity to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expenditure.
Maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Between Between Within one and two and Over one year two years five years five years At 30 April 2008 m m m m Finance lease liability 2.
Between Between Within one and two and Over one year two years five years five years At 31 January 2007 m m m m Net settled derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 3.
Finance lease liability 0.7 1.0 1.2 0.1 Trade and other payables 89.
2 198.8 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
Between Between Within one and two and Over one year two years five years five years At 30 April 2008 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflow 18.9 Inflow 1.
8 Foreign currency swap held for trading Outflow 18.
2 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 9
