Notes to the Company financial statements for the period ended 30 April 2008 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial information set out on pages 102 to 107 comprises the financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the 15 months ended 30 April 2008 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
The financial statements of the Company are prepared under United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items as set out in the accounting policies below, and are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
Investments In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost adjusted for capital contributions relating to share-based payments.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is charged to reflect a reduction from book value to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset to the Company.
Tangible fixed assets comprise fixtures, fittings and equipment.
These are depreciated over their estimated useful economic life of five years on a straight-line basis.
Employee share schemes The cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares are recognised over the period of the employees related performance.
Where there are no performance criteria, the cost is recognised when the employee becomes unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The cost of awards is measured as the fair value of the award at grant date less employee contributions.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any financial incentives received from the lessor are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term or period to break clause.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reflect the impact of market rent reviews throughout the life of the lease.
Retirement benefits In accordance with FRS 17, the Company accounts for its contributions to the Comet Pension Scheme on a defined contribution scheme basis.
This is because the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme cover the Company and a number of its subsidiaries and cannot be split between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable basis.
The Company has therefore taken advantage of the multi-employer exemption allowed by paragraph 9 b of FRS 17.
The pension rights of the Company are dealt with through a self-administered scheme, the assets of which are held independently of the Companys finances.
The scheme is a defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the Company and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professional qualified actuaries.
Disclosure relating to the Comet Pension Scheme is included in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 103 Notes to the Company financial statements for the period ended 30 April 2008 1 Accounting policies continued New accounting policies a Amendments to published standards effective in 2007 The ASB has issued an amendment to FRS 26, Financial instruments:  and derecognition.
This implements the recognition and derecognition material in IAS 39.
The requirements of FRS 5, Reporting the substance of transactions, are superseded for transactions that fall within IAS 39s scope, but FRS 5 continues to apply to transactions in non-financial assets and liabilities.
The application of this amendment has no material effect on the financial statements of the Company.
The ASB has issued FRS 29, Financial instruments: Disclosures, which largely replicates the requirements of IFRS 7 and locates in one place all of the disclosures relating to financial instruments.
The standard supersedes FRS 13 and also the disclosure requirements of FRS 25.
The amendment is applicable to entities applying FRS 26.
b Amendments to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The Accounting Standards Board ASB has issued an amendment to FRS 17, Retirement benefits, which replaces the disclosures required by FRS 17 with those of IAS 19, Employee benefits, its international equivalent.
This achieves convergence between FRS 17 and IAS 19 in relation to pensions disclosures.
The ASB has also amended paragraph 16 of FRS 17, so that for quoted securities, the current bid price rather than the mid-market value is taken as fair value.
This is a further alignment with IAS 19 and is effective from accounting periods beginning on or after 6 April 2007.
Taxation Current tax represents the expected tax payable or recoverable on the taxable income for the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments arising from prior years.
Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by the balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future.
An asset has not been recognised to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the distribution to the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where dividends have been recognised as receivable.
Auditors remuneration During the period the Company obtained the following services from the Companys auditor at costs as detailed below: 15 months Year ended ended 30 April 31 January 2008 2007 m m Audit fees: Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements 0.3 0.3 Fees for other services: Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.4 All other services 0.1 Total fees paid to the Companys auditor 0.8 0.3 104 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08
