Notes to the Group financial statements for the financial period ended 30 April 2008 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal entities included in the financial statement are shown in note 1.
The financial information set out on pages 0 to 100 comprises the consolidated financial statements of KESA Electricals plc for the period ended 30 April 2008 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
Basis of preparation In order to improve internal planning processes, the Group has moved its financial year end to 30 April.
These are the first accounts prepared to this new reporting date and are accordingly for the 1 months to 30 April 2008.
Comparative information has been prepared for the year ended 31 January 2007.
Therefore the two periods presented will not be entirely comparable for the purpose of the income statement, statement of changes in equity, cash flow statements and related notes.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 198 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
All significant consolidated companies have a 30 April accounting year end.
Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08
