92 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Accounting Policies Company Basis of Preparation qualified actuaries.
In accordance with FRS 17, fide La Rue plc The financial statements of fide La Rue plc the Company have accounts for its contributions as though it were a defined been prepared under the historical cost convention and have been contribution scheme.
This is because the underlying assets and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and liabilities of the scheme cover the Company and a number of its applicable UK accounting standards.
During the year ended 29 subsidiaries and those assets and liabilities cannot be split March 2008 Urgent Issues Task Force UITF 41 Scope of FRS between each subsidiary on a consistent and reasonable basis.
20 and UITF 44 Group and Treasury Share Transactions were Full details of the scheme and its deficit measured on an IAS 19 issued.
The application of these new interpretations has had no basis can be found in note 25 to the consolidated financial significant impact on these financial statements.
Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is Share Based Payments exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss The Company operates various equity settled and cash settled account.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption option schemes although the majority of plans are settled by the in Financial Reporting Standard FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial issue of shares.
The services received from employees are Instruments: Disclosures not to prepare a financial instrument measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The note as the information is available in the published consolidated fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the profit financial statements of the Group.
and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds, on a straight line basis over the vesting The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS1 Cash eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, Flow Statements.
The Company is also exempt under the terms are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
FRS 20 of FRS8 Related Party Disclosures from disclosing related party has been applied to share settled share options granted after 7 transactions with entities that are part of the fide La Rue Group.
The accounts have been prepared as at 29 March 2008, being the Where the Company grants options over its own shares to the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the 2007 financial employees of its subsidiary undertakings these awards are year are for the year ended 31 March 2007. accounted for by the Company, as an additional investment in its subsidiary.
The costs are determined in accordance with FRS 20 The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in share based payments.
Any payments made by the subsidiary dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the undertaking in respect of these arrangement are treated as a return Company financial statements.
Foreign Currencies Share based payments recharged to subsidiaries are recorded via Amounts receivable from overseas subsidiaries which are the intercompany loan account.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the appropriate year end rates of exchange.
Exchange gains Dividends and losses on translating foreign currency amounts are included Under FRS 21, final ordinary dividends payable to the shareholders within the interest section of the profit and loss account except of the Company are recognised in the period that they are for exchange gains and losses associated with hedging loans approved by the shareholders.
Interim ordinary dividends are that are taken to reserves.
recognised in the period that they are paid.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional Taxation currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the The charge for taxation is based on the loss for the year and takes individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated into account taxation deferred because of timing differences in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all Other receivables timing differences between the treatment of certain items for Other receivables are measured at amortised cost less any taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Investments Financial guarantee contracts Investments are stated at cost or valuation in the balance sheet, Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to less provision for any permanent diminution in the value of the guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, investment.
the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the Retirement Benefits guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it The pension rights of the Company employees are dealt with becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a through a self administered scheme, the assets of which are held payment under the guarantee.
independently of the Groups finances.
The scheme is a defined benefit scheme that is funded partly by contributions from members and partly by contributions from the Company and its subsidiaries at rates advised by independent professionally
