58 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Accounting Policies Group For the year ended 29 March 2008 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Foreign currency these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These Foreign currency transactions policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of unless otherwise stated exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet Basis of Preparation date are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
The consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised directors and prepared in accordance with International Financial in the income statement.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS including interpretations issued by the International Accounting Financial statements of foreign operations Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated accounts have been Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and prepared under the historical cost convention with the exception intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at of certain items which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated at the accounting policies below.
average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on The accounts have been prepared as at 29 March 2008, being the the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the 2007 financial translated at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences year are for the year ended 31 March 2007. arising on retranslation are recognised directly in equity.
When a foreign subsidiary is sold, exchange differences that were recorded The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting gain or loss on sale.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the balance on the Practice UK GAAP.
cumulative translation adjustment on retranslation of subsidiaries net assets has been set to zero at the date of transition to IFRS.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Net investment in foreign operations Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a when the Group has the power to govern the financial and financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its foreign operations are recognised directly in equity to the extent activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective currently exercisable are taken into account.
The financial such differences are recognised in the income statement.
statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that the control commences Financial instruments until the date that control ceases.
The majority of the subsidiaries Non-derivative financial instruments prepare their financial statements up to 29 March except for certain Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in subsidiaries whose year end is 31 December.
In the case of the equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, subsidiaries whose financial statements are made up to 31 loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
December, results for the period to 31 March 2007 have been consolidated.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form Associated companies an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
the statement of cash flows.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power of another entity.
Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any The Groups share of the profits of associated companies is impairment losses.
Trade and other receivables and payables are included in the consolidated income statement.
Its interest in their discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
net assets is included as an investment in the consolidated balance Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value.
sheet at the Groups share of the net assets at acquisition, adjusted for goodwill or fair value adjustments recognised on initial Derivative financial instruments investment plus the Groups share of retained profits.
The Group holds derivative financial instruments, which include cross currency swaps and foreign exchange contracts, to hedge The majority of the material associated companies prepare their its foreign currency exposures.
Derivatives are recognised initially financial information to 29 March except for certain associated at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are companies whose year end is 31 December.
In the case of the measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for associated companies whose financial statements are made up as described below: to 31 December, results for the period to 29 March have been included in the consolidated income statement.
Cash flow hedge Where a derivative that is designated and qualifies as a hedge is Transactions eliminated on consolidation used to hedge a forecast transaction, any effective portion of the Intra group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income change in fair value is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating and expenses arising from intra group transactions are eliminated in to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
59 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Embedded derivatives Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 the date Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP accounted for separately if the economic characteristics and risks amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
of the host contract and the embedded derivative are not closely related, a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded Development costs derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, and a combined Expenditure incurred in the development of products or enhancements instrument is not measured at fair value through the income statement.
is capitalised as an intangible asset only when the future economic benefits expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can Hedge of net investment in foreign operations be reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
Capitalised in foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their in equity.
Ineffective hedges or portions thereon are recognised estimated useful economic lives once the product or enhancement is in the income statement.
Product research costs are written off as incurred.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative Other intangible assets financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences immediately in the consolidated income statement.
that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight line basis over the shorter of Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related to their useful economic life or their licence period at rates which vary operating activities are included in operating profit when from between three and five years.
recognised in the consolidated income statement Distribution rights are amortised over their useful economic lives Revenue as determined by the life of the products to which they relate.
Group revenue represents sales to external customers of manufactured products and services which fall within the Groups Property, plant and equipment ordinary trading activities.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment Revenue is recognised in the income statement to the extent losses.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the and long leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated transaction will flow into the Group and the amount can be reliably useful economic lives of 50 years.
Other leasehold interests are measured.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease goods or services are supplied to external customers in and 50 years.
accordance with the terms of sale.
The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
life at rates which vary between eight per cent and 50 per cent per annum.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are 10 per Intangible assets cent on plant and machinery, 10 per cent on fixtures and fittings, All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less and 33 per cent on tooling and computer equipment.
No accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Goodwill depreciation is provided for assets in the course of construction.
is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a On revaluation, any accumulated depreciation at the date of revaluation business combination over the Groups share of the fair value is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset, and the net of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the amount is restated to the revalued amount of the asset.
business acquired at the date of acquisition.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on revaluation of land and After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any buildings are credited to other reserves in shareholders equity.
At the date of acquisition the Decreases that offset previous increases of the same asset are goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of charged against other reserves directly in equity: all other impairment testing and is tested at least annually for impairment.
decreases are charged to the income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying Impairment amount of goodwill relating to the business.
Goodwill arising on the Financial assets acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine arising on the acquisition of associates is presented in investments whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence an asset.
indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
60 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Accounting Policies Group continued An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at Taxation amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying The tax expense included in the income statement comprises amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable discounted at the original effective interest rate.
on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Individually significant assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Non-financial assets Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured of impairment.
If any such indication exists then the assets using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when the assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet ready for asset is realised or the liability is settled.
use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against may not be recoverable.
In addition, goodwill is tested at least which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Impairment tests are performed for all Cash Generating Units CGUs to which goodwill has been Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on allocated at the balance sheet date or whenever there is indication investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except of impairment.
For all other intangible assets, an impairment test is where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the performed whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter Inventories being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and value Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost, in use.
Value in use calculations are performed using cash flow including relevant production overheads, and net realisable value.
projections for the asset or group of assets where cash flows are Cost is determined on a weighted average cost basis.
Cost not identifiable to specific assets, discounted at a rate which comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less Government grants estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
As permitted under IAS 20, government grants received in respect of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the cost of the Employment benefits assets to which they relate.
Pensions The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the The major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership held separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benefits to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
under each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum curtailments are included in operating costs in the group income lease payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the over their useful economic lives.
Lease payments are apportioned benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straightbetween repayment of capital and interest.
The capital element of line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of future lease payments is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
funded defined benefit pension schemes and the imputed interest Interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a on pension scheme liabilities are disclosed as retirement benefit constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
obligation finance income and retirement benefit obligation finance expense respectively in the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Operating Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, lease incentives are recognised as a reduction in the rental changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience expense over the lease term.
and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of recognised income and expense in full in the period in which they arise.
61 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 The liability recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined Dividends benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets at the balance the year end are not recognised in the financial statements until they sheet date.
have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period that they The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are are paid.
charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Segment reporting The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and its Share based payments secondary format is geographical segments.
A business segment The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option is a component of the Group that is engaged in providing a group schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received of related products and is subject to risks and returns that are from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of different from those of other business segments.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and segment is a component of the Group that operates within a recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight return that are different from those of components operating in line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the other economic environments.
Non specific central costs are numbers of options that will actually vest.
Vesting conditions, allocated on the basis of estimates of time spent and other cost other than market based conditions, are not taken into account drivers and this policy is consistently applied.
when estimating the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair New Accounting standards and interpretations value of the liability for options outstanding and recognised in the In preparing the consolidated financial statements the Group has consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the adopted the following new IFRS and amendment to IAS which vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is re-measured at became effective in 2007 08: each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: and in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: IFRS 2 Share-based payment has been applied to equity settled Capital Disclosures.
share options granted after 7 November 2002 not yet vested at 1 January 2005 and to outstanding cash settled share options The following new interpretations of the International Financial as at 1 January 2005.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007, Share option schemes have had no impact on the financial statements: The fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust is a separately IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 administered trust.
Liabilities of the trust are guaranteed by the Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies Company and the assets of the trust mainly comprise shares in IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment the Company.
IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
The own shares held by the trust are shown as a reduction in Shareholders funds.
The shares will be held at historical rates The following new IFRS and interpretations and amendments to until such time as they are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the IFRS and IAS are not yet effective and have not been early disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves adopted: rather than as a profit and loss item.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments is effective for the 2009 10 financial year: Provisions Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, IAS 1 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Presentation of Financial Statements, IAS 27 Consolidated in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow and Separate Financial Statements and IAS 23 Borrowing of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the costs are all effective for the 2009 10 financial year: amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions the time value of money is considered material.
and IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements are both effective for the 2008 9 financial year: Exceptional items IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes is effective for the Items which are both material by size and or by nature and non- 2009 10 financial year.
This interpretation has not yet been recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant endorsed by the EU consolidated income statement category.
The separate reporting of exceptional items charged to operating profit helps provide an The adoption of this IFRS and these interpretations and indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Events amendments to IFRS and IAS is not expected to have a significant which may give rise to the classification of items as exceptional impact on the consolidated financial statements.
include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses other than those within the scope of IFRS 5, restructuring of businesses and IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations is effective for the asset impairments.
2010 11 financial year although it has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
62 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Accounting Policies Group continued IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, d Pension obligations Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction is The present value of the pension obligations depends on a effective for the 2008 9 financial year although it has not yet been number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis endorsed by the EU.
The interpretation clarifies the limitations on using a number of assumptions.
recognising defined benefit pension surpluses and the related deferred tax liabilities in the balance sheet and may also require The assumptions used in determining the net cost income for recognition of an additional liability for any committed future pensions include the expected long-term rate of return on the contributions.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this relevant plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these interpretation on the consolidated financial statements.
assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations.
The expected return on plan assets assumption is Critical accounting estimates and judgements determined on a uniform basis, taking into consideration longEstimates and judgements used in preparing the financial term historical returns, asset allocation and future estimates of statements are continually evaluated and are based on historical long-term investment returns.
The Group determines the experience and other factors, including expectations of future appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the events that are believed to be reasonable.
The resulting interest rate that should be used to determine the present value accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a settle the pension obligations.
In determining the appropriate significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of highare discussed below.
quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity a Property, plant and equipment approximating the terms of the related pension liability.
Other key Assets are carried at historical cost less depreciation calculated assumptions for pension obligations are based in part on current to write off the cost of such assets over their estimated useful market conditions.
Management determines the estimated useful lives and related depreciation charges at acquisition but will revise the depreciation charge where useful lives are subsequently found to be different to those previously estimated.
b Impairment of assets The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that have indefinite useful lives suffered any impairment.
Other assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is determined based on value-inuse calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
c Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
