90 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of fide La Rue plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion fide La Rue plc for the year ended 29 March 2008 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Company financial statements and the part of the Directors been audited.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, and of fide La Rue plc for the year ended 29 March 2008. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Companys members those matters we are required to state to order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Remuneration Report to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Company financial Opinion statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting In our opinion: Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 37. the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 29 March statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report 2008: to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Ireland.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the parent Company financial statements.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred KPMG Audit Plc from the Principal Activities and Business Review section of the Chartered Accountants Directors Report.
Registered Auditor London In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 21 May 2008 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
