Section 4 Financial Statements and Notes STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are obliged under company law to prepare financial statements of each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of aairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profits or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors are required to prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors confirm that the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU.
They also confirm the Company Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently except where required to comply with the new accounting policies.
They also confirm that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 August 2008 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT PURSUANT TO DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULE 4.1.
12 The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: a the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the EU together with UK accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and b the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
58 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008
