212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 158 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued share capital.
Diageo currently has shareholder authority to buy back up to 263,122,000 101 ordinary shares during the period up to the next annual general meeting.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 28 108 pence and the maximum price is the higher of a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five preceding business days and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
Restrictions on transfers of shares The board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the board may reasonably require, and b if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the articles of association and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the articles of association.
EXCHANGE CONTROLS There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on Diageos ordinary shares or on the conduct of Diageos operations.
There are no restrictions under the companys memorandum and articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares.
Please refer to the Taxation section below for details relating to the taxation of dividend payments.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY The latest Annual Report, the Annual Review and any related documents of the company may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
TAXATION This section provides a descriptive summary of US federal income tax and UK tax consequences that are likely to be material to the holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs, who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or a listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ownership of the ordinary shares and ADSs.
This section does not apply to any holder who is subject to special rules, including: a dealer in securities or foreign currency: a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings: a tax-exempt organisation: a life insurance company: a person liable for alternative minimum tax: a person that actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the voting stock of Diageo: a person that holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction: a US holder as defined below whose functional currency is not the US dollar: or a partnership.
For UK tax purposes, this section applies only to persons who are the absolute beneficial owners of their shares or ADSs and who hold their shares or ADSs as investments.
It assumes that holders of ADSs will be treated as holders of the underlying ordinary shares.
In addition to those persons mentioned above, this section does not apply to holders that are banks, regulated investment companies, other financial institutions or to persons who have or are deemed to have acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs in the course of an employment.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, and the laws of the United Kingdom, all as currently in effect, as well as on the Convention Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Tax on Income and Capital Gains the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
158 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 159 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 In addition, this section is based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
In general, and taking into account this assumption, for US federal income tax purposes and for the purposes of the Treaty, holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax on profits or gains.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for US federal income tax purposes: a citizen or resident for tax purposes of the United States and who is not and has at no point been resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom: a US domestic corporation: an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its source: or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
This section is not intended to provide specific advice and no action should be taken or omitted in reliance upon it.
This discussion addresses only certain aspects of US federal income tax and UK income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax and stamp taxes.
Dividends UK taxation There is no UK withholding tax on dividends.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom that receives a dividend from the company will generally be entitled to a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend.
The individual will be taxable on the total of the dividend and the related credit, known as the gross dividend, which will be regarded as the top slice of the individuals income.
The tax credit will, however, be treated as discharging the individuals liability to income tax in respect of the gross dividend, unless and except to the extent that the gross dividend falls above the threshold for the higher rate of income tax, in which case the individual will, to that extent, pay tax on the gross dividend calculated as 32.5% of the gross dividend less the related tax credit.
A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom will not generally be taxable on any dividend it receives in respect of the shares.
A shareholder who is not liable for tax on dividends received on the shares will not be entitled to claim payment of the tax credit in respect of those dividends.
Eligible US holders will not normally be entitled to a tax credit under the Treaty, nor will they be subject to a withholding tax by the United Kingdom.
US taxation Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, rules discussed below, the gross amount of any dividend paid to a US holder by Diageo in respect of its ordinary shares or ADSs out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes is subject to US federal income taxation.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by Diageo with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will be qualified dividend income to US holders that meet the holding period requirement.
Under the Treaty, dividends will not be subject to UK withholding tax.
Therefore, the US holder will include in income for US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually received, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
The dividend must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States, and dividends paid in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2007 generally will be passive or financial services income, while dividends paid in taxable years beginning after 31 December 2006 will generally be passive or general income, which, in either case, is treated separately from other types of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable to a US holder.
The amount of the dividend distribution that must be included in income of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the pence payments made, determined at the spot UK sterling US dollar foreign exchange rate on the date the dividend distribution is included in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
Taxation of capital gains UK taxation A citizen or resident for tax purposes of the United States who has at no time been either resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are held in connection with a trade or business carried on by the holder in the United Kingdom through a UK branch, agency or a permanent establishment.
US taxation Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount that is realised and the tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15% where the property is held for more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
A US holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a credit against the holders US federal income tax liability for the amount of any UK tax paid in respect of such gain.
159 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 160 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED PFIC rules Diageo believes that ordinary shares and ADSs should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change.
If treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, US holders would be treated as if the holder had realised such gain and certain excess distributions pro-rated over the holders holding period for the ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
In addition, dividends received from Diageo will not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Diageo is a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
UK inheritance tax An ordinary share or ADS held by an individual shareholder who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom relating to estate and gift taxes the Convention and is not a UK national as defined in the Convention will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death whether held on the date of death or gifted during the individuals lifetime except where the ordinary share or ADS is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of the individual or pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual who performs independent personal services.
The Convention generally provides for inheritance tax paid in the United Kingdom to be credited against federal gift or estate tax payable in the United States, or for federal gift or estate tax paid in the United States to be credited against any inheritance tax payable in the United Kingdom, based on priority rules set forth in the Convention, in a case where an ordinary share or ADS is subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises upon the deposit of an underlying ordinary share with the Depositary, generally at the higher rate of 1.5% of its issue price or, as the case may be, of the consideration for transfer.
The Depositary will pay the SDRT but will recover an amount in respect of such tax from the initial holders of ADSs.
No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs in practice, provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom and remains at all times outside the United Kingdom.
Furthermore, an agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs will not give rise to a liability to SDRT.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be subject to UK stamp duty, or SDRT as the case may be, at the rate of 0.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
However, where ordinary shares being acquired are transferred direct to the Depositarys nominee, the only charge will generally be the higher SDRT charge of 1.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares so acquired.
