212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 158 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued share capital.
Diageo currently has shareholder authority to buy back up to 263,122,000 101 ordinary shares during the period up to the next annual general meeting.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 28 108 pence and the maximum price is the higher of a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five preceding business days and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
Restrictions on transfers of shares The board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the board may reasonably require, and b if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the articles of association and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the articles of association.
EXCHANGE CONTROLS There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on Diageos ordinary shares or on the conduct of Diageos operations.
There are no restrictions under the companys memorandum and articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares.
Please refer to the Taxation section below for details relating to the taxation of dividend payments.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY The latest Annual Report, the Annual Review and any related documents of the company may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
TAXATION This section provides a descriptive summary of US federal income tax and UK tax consequences that are likely to be material to the holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs, who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or a listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ownership of the ordinary shares and ADSs.
This section does not apply to any holder who is subject to special rules, including: a dealer in securities or foreign currency: a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings: a tax-exempt organisation: a life insurance company: a person liable for alternative minimum tax: a person that actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the voting stock of Diageo: a person that holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction: a US holder as defined below whose functional currency is not the US dollar: or a partnership.
For UK tax purposes, this section applies only to persons who are the absolute beneficial owners of their shares or ADSs and who hold their shares or ADSs as investments.
It assumes that holders of ADSs will be treated as holders of the underlying ordinary shares.
In addition to those persons mentioned above, this section does not apply to holders that are banks, regulated investment companies, other financial institutions or to persons who have or are deemed to have acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs in the course of an employment.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, and the laws of the United Kingdom, all as currently in effect, as well as on the Convention Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Tax on Income and Capital Gains the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
