FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 27 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 fixed number of years.
There can be no assurance that Diageo will be able These factors include, but are not limited to: to renegotiate distribution rights on favourable terms when they expire increased competitive product and pricing pressures and or that agreements will not be terminated.
Failure to renew distribution unanticipated actions by competitors that could impact on Diageos agreements on favourable terms could have an adverse impact on market share, increase expenses and hinder growth potential: Diageos sales and operating profit.
In addition, Diageos sales may be the effects of business combinations, partnerships, acquisitions adversely affected by any disputes with distributors of its products.
or disposals, existing or future, and the ability to realise expected synergies and or cost savings: Diageo may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights Diageos ability to complete existing or future acquisitions and disposals: Given the importance of brand recognition to its business, Diageo has legal and regulatory developments, including changes in regulations invested considerable effort in protecting its intellectual property rights, regarding consumption of, or advertising for, beverage alcohol, including trademark registration and domain names.
Diageos patents changes in tax law including tax rates or accounting standards, cover some of its process technology, including some aspects of its bottle changes in taxation requirements, such as the impact of excise tax marking technology.
Diageo also uses security measures and agreements increases with respect to the business, and changes in environmental to protect its confidential information.
However, Diageo cannot be laws, health regulations and laws governing pensions: certain that the steps it has taken will be sufficient or that third parties developments in litigation or any similar proceedings directed at the will not infringe on or misappropriate its intellectual property rights.
drinks and spirits industry: Moreover, some of the countries in which Diageo operates offer less developments in the Colombian litigation and Turkish customs intellectual property protection than Europe or North America.
Given the litigation or any similar proceedings: attractiveness of Diageos brands to consumers, it is not uncommon for changes in consumer preferences and tastes, demographic trends counterfeit products to be manufactured.
Diageo cannot be certain that or perceptions about health related issues: the steps it takes to prevent, detect and eliminate counterfeit products changes in the cost of raw materials, labour and or energy: will be effective in preventing material loss of profits or erosion of brand changes in economic conditions in countries in which Diageo equity resulting from lower quality or even dangerous counterfeit product operates, including changes in levels of consumer spending: reaching the market.
If Diageo is unable to protect its intellectual property levels of marketing, promotional and innovation expenditure by rights against infringement or misappropriation, this could materially Diageo and its competitors: harm its future financial results and ability to develop its business.
renewal of distribution or licence manufacturing rights on favourable terms when they expire: It may be difficult to effect service of US process and enforce US termination of existing distribution or licence manufacturing rights legal process against the directors of Diageo Diageo is a public on agency brands: limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
The systems change programmes, existing or future, and the ability to majority of Diageos directors and officers, and some of the experts named derive expected benefits from such programmes, and systems failure in this document, reside outside of the United States, principally in the that could lead to business disruption: United Kingdom.
A substantial portion of Diageos assets, and the assets technological developments that may affect the distribution of products of such persons, are located outside of the United States.
Therefore, it may or impede Diageos ability to protect its intellectual property rights: and not be possible to effect service of process within the United States upon changes in financial and equity markets, including significant interest Diageo or these persons in order to enforce judgements of US courts rate and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may affect against Diageo or these persons based on the civil liability provisions of the Diageos access to or increase the cost of financing or which may US federal securities laws.
There is doubt as to the enforceability in England affect Diageos financial results.
and Wales, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgements of US courts, of civil liabilities solely based on the US federal securities laws.
All oral and written forward-looking statements made on or after the date of this document and attributable to Diageo are expressly qualified CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING in their entirety by the above factors and those described in Business STATEMENTS description Risk factors.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning behalf of Diageo speak only as of the date they are made.
Diageo does not of the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the financial condition, in Diageos expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, results of operations and business of Diageo and certain of the plans conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The and objectives of Diageo with respect to these items.
In particular, all reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Diageo statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections with may make in any documents which it publishes and or files with the SEC.
respect to future matters, including trends in results of operations, All readers, wherever situated, should take note of these disclosures.
margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of financing to Diageo, anticipated cost The information in this document does not constitute an offer to sell savings or synergies and the completion of Diageos strategic transactions, or an invitation to buy shares in Diageo plc or any other invitation or are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking inducement to engage in investment activities.
statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number This document includes information about Diageos debt rating.
A security of factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating statements, including factors that are outside Diageos control.
Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
27 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P28-71 5 9 08 10:08 Page 28 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CONTENTS BUSINESS REVIEW 29 Introduction 31 Operating results 2008 compared with 2007 47 Operating results 2007 compared with 2006 63 Trend information 63 Liquidity and capital resources 66 Contractual obligations 66 Off-balance sheet arrangements 67 Risk management 68 Market risk sensitivity analysis 69 Critical accounting policies 71 Adoption of IFRS 71 New accounting standards 28
