212833 DIAGEO REPORT P106-127 5 9 08 10:14 Page 106 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 NEW ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following accounting standard and interpretation, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB or International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the group with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements: capital disclosures effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
This amendment requires additional disclosures in the annual report on the objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
Appropriate additional disclosures are included in this Annual Report.
IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share transactions effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
The following standards and interpretations, issued by the IASB or IFRIC, have not yet been adopted by the group: IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
Amendment to IAS 38 Intangible assets effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 8 Operating segments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19:The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
The amendment to IAS 23 generally eliminates the option to expense borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as incurred, and instead requires the capitalisation of such borrowing costs as part of the cost of specific assets.
The group is currently assessing the impact of the amendment on the results and net assets of the group.
The amendment to IAS 38 clarifies the accounting for advertising expenditure.
The group is currently assessing the impact this amendment to the standard would have on the results and net assets of the group.
IFRS 3 Revised continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations with some significant changes, particularly in respect of the measurement of contingent payments, the calculation of goodwill and the treatment of transaction costs.
These changes apply to business combinations occurring from 1 July 2009.
IFRS 8 contains requirements for the disclosure of information about an entitys operating segments and also about the entitys products and services, the geographical areas in which it operates, and its major customers.
The standard is concerned only with disclosure and replaces IAS 14 Segment reporting.
The group is currently assessing the impact this standard would have on the presentation of its consolidated results.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the post employment benefit asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
It is not expected that the interpretation would have a material impact on the results or net assets of the group.
The group does not currently believe the adoption of the remaining standards or interpretations would have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the group.
With the exception of IAS 1 Revised and IFRS 8, none of the above standards and interpretations not yet adopted by Diageo have been endorsed or adopted for use in the European Union.
2 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION Continuing operations Diageo is an international manufacturer and distributor of premium drinks.
The group produces, markets and distributes a wide range of premium brands, including Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies, Guinness stout, Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur, Captain Morgan rum, J&B scotch whisky and Tanqueray gin.
In addition, Diageo also owns the distribution rights for the Jos Cuervo tequila brands in the United States and other countries.
Diageo also owns a number of investments in unconsolidated associates, the principal investment being a 34% interest in Mot Hennessy, the spirits and wines subsidiary of LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.
Mot Hennessy is based in France and is a leading producer and exporter of champagne and cognac.
Following the reorganisation in January 2007 of the way in which the business is managed, continuing operations now comprise the following segments: Diageo North America United States and Canada, Diageo Europe all European countries and territories including Russia, Diageo International Africa, Latin America, Caribbean, Global Travel and Middle East, Diageo Asia Pacific Greater China, India, Japan, Korea, South East Asia and Australia, Mot Hennessy and Corporate and other.
The comparative information for the year ended 30 June 2006 has been restated to reflect the current organisation.
