212833 DIAGEO REPORT P96-105 5 9 08 10:13 Page 102 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE GROUP BASIS OF PREPARATION ADVERTISING The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Advertising production costs are charged in the income statement International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed and when the advertisement is first shown to the public.
adopted for use in the European Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
References to IFRS RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT hereafter should be construed as references to both IFRS as adopted by Research expenditure in respect of new drinks products and package the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
No reconciliation to US GAAP is design is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Any subsequent included in the financial statements following the SECs adoption of a rule development expenditure in the period leading up to product launch accepting financial statements from foreign private issuers prepared in that meets the recognition criteria set out in the relevant standard is accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB without that reconciliation.
If capitalised, any intangible asset is amortised on a straightline basis over the period of the expected benefit.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, except that biological assets SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS EMPLOYEE BENEFITS and certain financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo models The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires and is charged in the income statement over the vesting period.
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the Shares of Diageo plc held by the company for the purpose of fulfilling reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent obligations in respect of various employee share plans around the group assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the are deducted from equity in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any surplus reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting or deficit arising on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the group period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
is included as an adjustment to reserves.
The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are of PENSIONS AND OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
In judgement, are set out with related disclosures in Critical accounting addition the group has defined contribution plans, unfunded post policies in the Business review section of this Annual Report.
employment medical benefit liabilities and other unfunded defined benefit post employment liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the BUSINESS COMBINATIONS amount charged in the income statement is the cost of accruing The consolidated financial statements include the results of the pension benefits promised to employees over the year, plus any fully company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable vested benefit improvements granted to members by the group during share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
It also includes a credit equivalent to the groups expected subsidiaries sold or acquired are included in the income statement up return on the pension plans assets over the year, offset by a charge to, or from, the date that control passes.
equal to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
The difference between the fair value of the plans assets and the present On the acquisition of a business, or of an interest in an associate or joint value of the plans liabilities is disclosed as an asset or liability on the venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are consolidated balance sheet.
Any differences between the expected attributed to the net assets including identifiable intangible assets return on assets and that actually achieved, and any changes in the acquired.
Adjustments to fair values include those made to bring liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience accounting policies into line with those of the group.
within the plans, are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense.
SALES Sales comprise revenue from the sale of goods, royalties receivable and Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined contribution rents receivable.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
import duties which the group pays as principal but excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as value added tax.
Sales are EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS recognised depending upon individual customer terms at the time of Exceptional items are those that in managements judgement need to despatch, delivery or some other specified point when the risk of loss be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence.
Such items are included transfers.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
Sales are within the income statement caption to which they relate, and are stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer loyalty and certain separately disclosed either in the notes to the consolidated financial promotional activities and similar items.
statements or on the face of the consolidated income statement.
102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P96-105 5 9 08 10:13 Page 103 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 FOREIGN CURRENCIES Computer software is amortised on a straight-line basis to estimated Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, residual value over its expected useful life, expected to be up to five associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the years.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed each year.
primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
Land and buildings are stated at cost less depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leaseholds are depreciated over the unexpired period The income statements and cash flows of overseas entities are translated of the lease.
Other property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other than substantial straight-line basis to estimated residual values over their expected useful transactions that are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
lives, and these values and lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these The adjustment to closing rates is taken to reserves.
reviews, the estimated useful lives fall within the following ranges: industrial and other buildings 10 to 50 years: plant and machinery Balance sheets are translated at closing rates.
Exchange differences arising 5 to 25 years: fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: and casks and containers on the re-translation at closing rates of the opening balance sheets of 15 to 20 years.
overseas entities are taken to reserves, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings and financial instruments Reviews are carried out if there is some indication that impairment may designated as net investment hedges, to the extent that they are have occurred, to ensure that property, plant and equipment are not effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on such items are also taken to carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Other exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
LEASES The results, assets and liabilities of operations in hyper-inflationary Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership economies are adjusted to reflect the changes in the purchasing power of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Other of the local market currency of the entity.
leases are treated as operating leases, with payments and receipts taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
If hedged forward, the impact of hedging AGRICULTURE is recognised, where permitted, under hedge accounting refer to Grape cultivation by the groups wine business is accounted for as an accounting policy for derivative financial instruments.
Accordingly the groups biological assets grape vines and grapes on the vine are carried at fair value which is computed on BRANDS, GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS the basis of a discounted cash flow computation.
Agricultural produce When the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to harvested grapes is valued at market value on transfer into inventory.
the groups share of the net assets acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES was eliminated against reserves, and this goodwill has not been restated.
An associate is an undertaking in which the group has a long term equity Goodwill arising subsequent to 1 July 1998 has been capitalised.
interest and over which it has the power to exercise significant influence.
The groups interest in the net assets of associates is included in Acquired brands and other intangible assets are recognised when they investments in the consolidated balance sheet and its interest in their are controlled through contractual or other legal rights, or are separable results is included in the income statement below the groups operating from the rest of the business, and the fair value can be reliably measured.
Joint ventures, where there is contractual joint control over the entity, are accounted for by including on a line-by-line basis the Goodwill and intangible assets that are regarded as having indefinite attributable share of the results, assets and liabilities.
useful economic lives are not amortised.
Intangible assets that are regarded as having limited useful economic lives are amortised on INVENTORIES a straight-line basis over those lives.
Assets with indefinite lives are Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost reviewed for impairment annually and other assets are reviewed for includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, an appropriate impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the proportion of production and other overheads, but not borrowing costs.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
To ensure that goodwill and Cost is calculated on an actual usage basis for maturing inventories and intangible assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts, on a first in, first out basis for other inventories.
impairment reviews are carried out comparing the net carrying value with the recoverable amount, where the recoverable amount is the higher of value in use or fair value less cost to sell.
Amortisation and any impairment write downs are charged in the income statement.
103 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P96-105 5 9 08 10:13 Page 104 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE GROUP CONTINUED FINANCIAL ASSETS The purpose of hedge accounting is to mitigate the impact of potential Trade receivables Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are volatility in the income statement of the group of changes in exchange stated at their nominal amount that is usually the original invoiced or interest rates or commodity prices, by matching the impact of the amount less provisions made for bad and doubtful receivables.
hedged item and the hedging instrument in the income statement.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging relationship must meet receivable balances and historical experience.
Individual trade several conditions with respect to documentation, probability of receivables are provided against when management deems them occurrence, hedge effectiveness and reliability of measurement.
At the not to be collectable.
inception of the transaction, the group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge in hand and deposits which are readily convertible to known amounts transaction.
This process includes linking all derivatives designated as of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value hedges to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments and have an original maturity of three months or less at acquisition, or forecast transactions.
The group also documents its assessment, both including money market deposits, commercial paper and investments.
at the hedge inception and on a quarterly basis, as to whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been, and are Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets likely to continue to be, effective in offsetting changes in fair value or are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not cash flows of hedged items.
classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within Diageo designates derivatives which qualify as hedges for accounting 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Available-for sale financial assets purposes as either: a a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset are currently primarily represented by cash and cash equivalents and or liability fair value hedge : b a hedge of a forecast transaction or the amounts held in escrow accounts for pension schemes.
cash flow risk from a change in interest rates or exchange rates cash flow hedge : or c a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Borrowings Borrowings are initially measured at cost which is equal to The method of recognising the resulting gains or losses from fair value at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised movements in fair values is dependent on whether the derivative cost using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between contract is designated to hedge a specific risk and qualifies for the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the settlement or redemption hedge accounting.
of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value adjustments for all loans Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the currency and or designated as hedged items in a fair value hedge are shown separately interest rate risks to which the fair value of certain assets and liabilities are as a net figure.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are fair value hedges Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated are recognised in the income statement, along with any changes in the at their nominal value.
relevant fair value of the underlying hedged asset or liability.
If such a hedge relationship is fide-designated, fair value movements on the DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS derivative continue to be taken to the income statement while any fair The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures value adjustments made to the underlying hedged item to that date are to fluctuations in interest and exchange rates.
The derivative instruments amortised through the income statement over its remaining life.
used by Diageo consist mainly of currency forwards, foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps.
Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge the currency risk of highly probable future foreign currency cash flows, as well as the cash Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at flow risk from changes in interest rates and exchange rates.
The effective fair value that is calculated using a discounted cash flow technique part of the changes in fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in the consistently for similar types of instruments.
This technique takes into statement of recognised income and expense, while any ineffective part consideration assumptions based on market data.
Changes in the fair is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts recorded value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in the statement of recognised income and expense are transferred to are charged or credited in the income statement.
the income statement in the same period in which the underlying interest or foreign exchange exposure affects the income statement.
104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P96-105 5 9 08 10:13 Page 105 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Net investment hedges take the form of either foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
All foreign exchange gains or losses arising on translation of net investments are recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense and included in cumulative translation differences.
Liabilities used as hedging instruments in a net investment hedge are revalued at closing exchange rates.
The resulting gains or losses are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense to the extent that they are effective, with any ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement.
Foreign exchange contracts hedging net investments in overseas businesses are revalued at fair value.
Effective fair value movements are taken to the statement of recognised income and expense, with any ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement.
TAXATION Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
Full provision for deferred tax is made for temporary differences between the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and their tax bases.
The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable amount and is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries where the group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Disposal groups are classified as discontinued operations where they represent a major line of business or geographical area of operations.
