FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 153 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information on legal proceedings is set out in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions with directors are disclosed in the directors remuneration report see Directors remuneration report Additional information and transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS Agreement for the acquisition of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses On 19 December 2000, Diageo and Pernod Ricard SA entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement the SAPA with Vivendi Universal SA, whereby Pernod Ricard and Diageo agreed to acquire stock and assets of the worldwide spirits, wines, wine and malt coolers, other malt beverages, fortified wines, non-alcoholic mixers and other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages business of The Seagram Company Limited.
The acquisition was completed on 21 December 2001.
The acquisition consideration, under the SAPA, was $8.15 billion 5.62 billion in cash, subject to a number of adjustments.
Diageos share of the purchase price, after adjustment, was 3.7 billion.
The terms of the bidding and acquisition arrangements between Pernod Ricard and Diageo for the Seagram acquisition were governed by the Framework Implementation Agreement, a formal agreement entered into on 4 December 2000 which was subsequently amended and restated the FIA.
The FIA set out amongst other things principles governing the split of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses, the integration process for the business and the interim management of the non-core businesses.
The FIA was terminated by the execution of a further agreement on 21 December 2002 which was subsequently amended and supplemented the SOFIA although this termination is without prejudice to any prior breaches of the FIA.
Under the SOFIA, all material assets that were jointly acquired by Pernod Ricard and Diageo from Vivendi Universal are allocated between Diageo and Pernod Ricard.
A number of the provisions of the FIA have been carried forward into the SOFIA in modified form.
These include provisions relating to the parties responsibility for liabilities incurred by or in connection with the various businesses acquired under the SAPA including for the sharing of certain liabilities between the parties.
Where liability is to be shared between Diageo and Pernod Ricard, this is generally on the basis of the same 60.9 39.1 ratio adopted for the FIA subject to, amongst other things, fide minimis limitations that limit the ability of one party to recover from the other in certain cases and to detailed conduct of claims provisions.
The SOFIA also provides for the settlement of various historic and ongoing claims between the parties under the FIA and for the settlement of various costs and expenses including future costs and expenses.
In addition, the SOFIA provides the basis for the management of the remaining jointly-owned businesses including for their future restructuring and or liquidation.
DEBT SECURITIES Pursuant to an Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance dated 16 October 2007 by and among Diageo plc, Diageo Capital plc, Diageo Finance BV, Diageo Investment Corporation, The Bank of New York and Citibank NA, The Bank of New York Mellon has become the successor trustee to Citibank NA under the companys indentures dated 3 August 1998, 8 December 2003 and 1 June 1999.
Pursuant to an Agreement of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance dated 25 March 2008 by and among Diageo plc, Diageo Finance BV, Diageo Investment Corporation, The Bank of New York and US Bank Trust National Association, The Bank of New York Mellon has become the successor trustee to US Bank Trust National Association under the companys indentures dated 15 August 1991, 11 May 1994 and 20 February 1996.
SHARE CAPITAL 101 As at 11 August 2008, Diageo had an authorised share capital of 5,329 million ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each with an aggregate nominal value 101 of 1,542 million, and an allotted and fully paid share capital of 2,803 million ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each with an aggregate nominal value of 811 million including treasury shares and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
Major shareholders At 11 August 2008, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified to the company.
Percentage of Number of issued ordinary share capital Shareholder ordinary shares excluding treasury shares Date of notification of interest Capital Research and Management Company indirect holding 155,553,200 5.78% 16 March 2007 Legal & General Group Plc direct holding 107,824,143 4.12% 26 October 2007 The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the company.
As at the close of business on 11 August 2008, 500,847,123 ordinary shares, including those held through ADSs, were held by approximately 2,701 holders including American Depositary Receipt ADR holders with registered addresses in the United States, representing approximately 20% of the outstanding ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
At such date, 125,033,627 ADSs were held by 2,038 registered ADR holders.
Since certain of such ordinary shares and ADSs are held by nominees or former GrandMet or Guinness Group ADR holders who have not re-registered their ADSs, the number of holders may not be representative of the number of beneficial owners in the United States or the ordinary shares held by them.
153 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 154 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED Trading market for shares The Diageo plc ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange the Exchange and on the Dublin and Paris Stock Exchanges.
Diageo plc American Depositary Shares ADSs, representing four Diageo plc ordinary shares each, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The principal trading market for the ordinary shares is the Exchange.
Shares are traded on the Exchanges electronic order book.
Orders placed on the order book are displayed on-screen through a central electronic system and trades are automatically executed, in price and then time priority, when orders match with corresponding buy or sell orders.
Only member firms of the Exchange can enter or delete orders on behalf of clients or on their own account.
Although use of the order book is not mandatory, all trades, whether or not executed through the order book and regardless of size, must be published immediately after execution unless they are large trades eligible for deferred publication.
The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID repealed the Investment Services Directive ISD on 1 November 2007.
It replaced the worked principal agreement basis for delayed reporting of large trades with a sliding scale requirement based on qualifying minimum thresholds for the amount of consideration to be paid the proportion of average daily turnover ADT of a stock represented by a trade.
Provided that a trade consideration equals or exceeds the qualifying minimum size, it will be eligible for deferred publication ranging from 60 minutes from time of trade to three trading days after time of trade.
Diageo ordinary shares have an ADT of 75m.
The ADT for each equity security is calculated as the yearly turnover divided by the number of trading days, excluding negotiated trades i. e. those trades privately negotiated but executed within the exchange.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will affect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the ordinary shares on the Exchange and, as a result, will affect the market price of the ADSs on the NYSE.
In addition, such fluctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the underlying ordinary shares.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations which represent an average of bid and asked prices for the ordinary shares on the Exchange, taken from its Daily Official List, and the highest and lowest sales prices for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
