FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 155 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The following description summarises certain provisions of Diageos memorandum of association and of its articles of association as adopted by special resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 18 October 2005 and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each case as at 11 August 2008.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos memorandum and articles of association.
Information on where investors can obtain copies of the memorandum and articles of association is provided under Additional information for shareholders Documents on display below.
A resolution will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 October 2008 to amend the articles of association.
The proposed changes primarily reflect changes in the law as a result of the implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
If adopted, the changes will be reflected in the summary of the articles which will appear in the 2009 Annual Report.
All of Diageos ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by Diageo from the holders of such shares.
Objects and purposes Diageo is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307.
Diageos objects and purposes are set forth in the fourth clause of its memorandum of association and cover a wide range of activities, including carrying on the business of a holding company, carrying on the business of producing, distributing and marketing branded drinks and brewing, distilling and manufacturing wines, spirits and mineral or other types of water, as well as doing anything incidental or conducive to the attainment of its objectives.
The memorandum of association grants Diageo a broad range of powers to effect these objectives.
Directors Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and affairs of Diageo are vested.
Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or appointed by the board of directors.
At each annual general meeting at least one-third of the directors, representing those directors who have been in office the longest since their last election, and, in addition, any directors appointed by the board of directors since the last annual general meeting are required to resign and are then reconsidered for election, assuming they wish to stand for re-election.
There is no age limit requirement in respect of directors.
Under Diageos articles of association, a director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has a material interest.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions a giving the director any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred for the benefit of Diageo, b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of obligations of Diageo for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee or by the giving of security, c relating to an offer of securities of Diageo in which the director participates or may participate as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting, d relating to any contract in which the director is interested by virtue of the directors interest in securities of Diageo or by reason of any other interest in or through Diageo, e concerning any other company in which the director is directly or indirectly interested, provided that the director does not own 1% or more of that company, f relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit including any retirement benefit plan in which the director will share equally with other employees, g relating to any insurance that Diageo purchases or maintains for its directors or any group of people, including directors, h giving the director an indemnity where all the other directors are being offered indemnities on substantially the same terms, and i for the funding by Diageo of the directors expenditure on defending proceedings or the doing by Diageo of anything to enable the director to avoid incurring such expenditure where all the other directors are being offered substantially the same arrangements.
A director cannot vote in relation to any resolution of the board concerning his own appointment, or the settlement or variation of the terms or the termination of his own appointment, as the holder of any office or place of profit with Diageo or any company in which Diageo is interested.
Under the articles of association, compensation awarded to directors may be decided by the board or any authorised committee of the board.
The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board concerning matters relating to remuneration policy.
It is comprised of all the non-executive directors except for the chairman.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Diageo to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all net external borrowings of the group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to twice the aggregate of the groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the articles of association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of Diageos shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of Diageo as a qualification to act as a director.
155 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 156 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED Dividend rights Holders of Diageos ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay interim dividends or fixed rate dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Diageos shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in the articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Dividends may be paid in currencies other than pounds sterling and such dividends will be calculated using an appropriate market exchange rate as determined by the directors in accordance with Diageos articles of association.
If a dividend has not been claimed, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of Diageo until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date such dividend was declared or became due for payment, it will be forfeited and will revert to Diageo unless the directors decide otherwise.
Diageo may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means for payment of dividends if either a at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed, or b one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
Diageo must resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Diageos articles of association permit payment or satisfaction of a dividend wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets, including fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Such action must be directed by the general meeting which declared the dividend and upon the recommendation of the directors.
Voting rights Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting and every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the chairman of the meeting: at least three shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: or any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and holding shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
Diageos articles of association provide for matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the proposing and passing of three kinds of resolutions: ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, re-election and removal of directors, the approval of financial statements, the declaration of final dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor, the increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot shares: special resolutions, which include resolutions amending Diageos memorandum or articles of association and resolutions relating to certain matters concerning Diageos winding up: and extraordinary resolutions, which include resolutions modifying the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the holders of such class.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special and extraordinary resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote.
In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled to cast the deciding vote in addition to any other votes he may have.
A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Liquidation rights In the event of the liquidation of Diageo, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking priority in accordance with English law, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by the Companies Acts, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of Diageos assets.
Alternatively, a liquidator may, upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution of the shareholders, vest the assets in whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of shareholders.
No shareholder is compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability, however.
156 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 157 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Disclosure of interests in Diageos shares There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of Diageos shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the Companies Acts.
The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Services Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to notify Diageo and the Financial Services Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in Diageo he directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares or financial instruments: or reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of any change in the breakdown or number of voting rights attached to shares in Diageo.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, Diageo may, by notice in writing, require a person that Diageo knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of notice interested in Diageos shares to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in Diageos shares, to provide certain information as set out in that Act.
Rule three of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules further requires persons discharging managerial responsibilities within Diageo and their connected persons to notify Diageo of transactions conducted on their own account in Diageo shares or derivatives or certain financial instruments relating to Diageo shares.
The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
General meetings and notices At least 21 clear days written notice of an annual general meeting is required.
An annual general meeting may be held on shorter notice provided that all the shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting agree.
Any general meeting which is not an annual general meeting is called an extraordinary general meeting.
At least 14 clear days written notice of any extraordinary general meeting is required, unless a special resolution or a resolution on which special notice has been given to Diageo is proposed, in which case 21 clear days written notice is required.
Any extraordinary general meeting may be held on shorter notice if a majority in number of shareholders, who together hold at least 95% in nominal value of Diageos shares giving a right to attend and vote at such meeting, agree.
An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held within six months of Diageos accounting reference date and at a time and place determined by the directors.
The chairman of any general meeting is entitled to refuse admission to or eject from that general meeting any person who fails to comply with any security arrangements or restrictions that the board may impose.
Variation of rights If, at any time, Diageos share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in all respects or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or redemption by Diageo of its own shares, in each case in accordance with the Companies Acts and the articles of association.
