212833 DIAGEO REPORT P146-164 5 9 08 10:15 Page 148 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ACCOUNTING POLICIES OF THE COMPANY BASIS OF PREPARATION PENSIONS AND OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the Diageo operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
It is not historical cost convention, modified to include revaluations to fair value of possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of these pension plans certain financial instruments, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 between individual companies and therefore the company accounts for and UK GAAP.
them as defined contribution plans.
Contributions payable in respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
By virtue of section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 the company is exempt from presenting a profit and loss account.
The company has The company operates a number of post employment benefit plans which taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement are unfunded.
For these plans, the amount charged in the profit and loss under the provisions of FRS 1 Revised 1996 and the exemption account is equivalent to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over contained in FRS 8 and has not separately disclosed transactions with the year.
Any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in subsidiary undertakings.
assumptions or experience within the plans are recognised in shareholders equity.
The liability recognised on the balance sheet represents the present The following paragraphs describe the significant accounting policies value of the obligations under the plans, net of related deferred tax.
under UK GAAP, which have been consistently applied.
TAXATION INVESTMENTS Tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying tax rates Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
They are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount Full provision for deferred tax is made for timing differences between may not be recoverable.
the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations, using appropriate tax rates.
The company DIVIDENDS PAID AND RECEIVED does not discount these balances.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the period in to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
which it is approved by the directors, and the final dividend in the period No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of in which it is approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting.
earnings of foreign subsidiaries or associates where no commitment has Dividends received are included in the financial statements in the period been made to remit such earnings in which they are receivable.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The companys accounting policies under UK GAAP, namely FRS 25 The fair value of share options or share grants is measured at grant date, Financial instruments: presentation, FRS 26 Financial instruments: based on the binomial or Monte Carlo model, and is recognised as a cost measurement and FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures, are the same to the company or an addition to the cost of investment in the subsidiary as the groups accounting policies under IFRS, namely IAS 32 Financial in which the relevant employees work, over the vesting period of the instruments: presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and option or share grant, with a corresponding adjustment to reserves.
Any measurement and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures.
These policies payments received from the companys subsidiaries in respect of these are set out under the heading Derivative financial instruments in the share-based payments result in a reduction in the cost of investment.
Accounting policies of the group.
As consolidated financial information Shares of Diageo plc held by the company directly or by share trusts for has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in note 22 to the consolidated financial the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of various employee share statements, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure plans around the group are deducted from equity in the balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the company is included as an adjustment to reserves.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates at the balance sheet date.
