FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P28-71 5 9 08 10:08 Page 69 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 The amounts generated from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that specified changes occur.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these results due to developments in the global financial markets which may cause fluctuations in interest and exchange rates to vary from the hypothetical amounts disclosed in the following table, which therefore should not be considered a projection of likely future events and losses.
As at 30 June 2008 and 30 June 2007, hypothetical changes in other risk variables would not significantly affect the fair value of financial instruments at those dates.
Sensitivity analysis table 1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% in interest in interest weakening strengthening rates rates in sterling in sterling million million million million At 30 June 2008 Decrease increase in fair value of financial instruments 277 243 727 595 Impact on income statement: gain loss 24 24 31 25 Impact on equity: gain loss 24 24 727 595 At 30 June 2007 Decrease increase in fair value of financial instruments 206 180 712 585 Impact on income statement: gain loss 18 18 28 24 Impact on equity: gain loss 15 15 712 585 The above analysis considers the fair value impact of all financial instruments including financial derivatives, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and other financial assets and liabilities.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following section forms part of the audited financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Diageos accounting policies are set out in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report.
In applying these policies the directors are required to make estimates and subjective judgements that may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and reported profit for the year.
The directors base these on a combination of past experience and any other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
The actual outcome could differ from those estimates.
Of Diageos accounting policies, the directors consider that policies in relation to the following areas are of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement.
Brands, goodwill and other intangibles Acquired brands are held on the consolidated balance sheet at cost.
Where brands are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives, they are not amortised.
Assessment of the useful economic life of an asset, or that an asset has an indefinite life, requires management judgement.
Impairment reviews are carried out to ensure that intangible assets, including brands, are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
In particular, the group performs a discounted cash flow analysis annually to compare discounted estimated future operating cash flows to the net carrying value of each acquired brand.
The analysis is based on forecast cash flows with terminal values being calculated using the long term growth rate the real GDP growth rate of the country plus its inflation rate of the principal countries in which the majority of the profits of each brand are generated.
The estimated cash flows are discounted at the groups weighted average cost of capital in the relevant country.
Any impairment write downs identified are charged to the income statement.
In assessing whether goodwill is carried at above its recoverable amount, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed annually to compare the discounted estimated future operating cash flows of cash generating units of the group to the net assets attributable to the cash generating units including goodwill.
The discounted cash flow review is consistent with the brand review in its use of estimated future operating cash flows, weighted average cost of capital for the cash generating unit concerned and long term growth rates.
The tests are dependent on management estimates and judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, long term growth rates and the discount rate applied to these cash flows.
69 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P28-71 5 9 08 10:08 Page 70 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Post employment benefits Diageo accounts for post employment benefits in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
Application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of judgement in relation to various assumptions including future pay rises in excess of inflation, employee and pensioner demographics and the future expected returns on assets.
Diageo determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in line with UK practice generally, but the application of different assumptions could have a significant effect on the amounts reflected in the income statement, statement of recognised income and expense and balance sheet in respect of post employment benefits.
The assumptions vary among the countries in which the group operates, and there may be an interdependency between some of the assumptions.
The major assumptions used by the group for the three years ended 30 June 2008 are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
It would be impracticable to give the impact of the effect of changes in all of the assumptions used to calculate the post employment charges in the income statement, statement of recognised income and expense and balance sheet, but the following disclosures are provided to assist the reader in assessing the impact of changes in the more critical assumptions.
The finance income and charges included in the income statement for post employment benefits are partly calculated by assuming an estimated rate of return on the assets held by the post employment plans.
For the year ended 30 June 2008, this was based on the assumption that equities would outperform fixed interest government bonds by three and a quarter percentage points.
A one percentage point decrease in this assumption would have reduced profit before taxation by approximately 48 million.
The rates used to discount the liabilities of the post employment plans are determined by using rates of return on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term.
A half a percentage point decrease in the discount rate assumption used to determine the income statement charge in the year ended 30 June 2008 would have reduced profit before taxation by approximately 9 million.
A half a percentage point decrease in the discount rate assumption used to determine the post employment liability at 30 June 2008 would have increased the liabilities before tax by approximately 417 million.
The net liability for post employment benefits is partly determined by the fair value at the end of the year of the assets owned by the post employment plans.
A 10% movement in worldwide equity values would increase decrease the net pension liability before tax at 30 June 2008 by approximately 290 million.
The mortality assumptions used in the UK plan were reassessed in 2006 and are based on the recent mortality experience of the plan and allow for future improvements in life expectancy.
For example, it is assumed that members who retire in 2028 at age 65 will live on average for a further 22 years if they are male and for a further 24 years if they are female.
If assumed life expectancies had been one year greater, the charge to profit before taxation would have increased by approximately 13 million and the net post employment liability before tax would have increased by approximately 174 million.
Exceptional items These are items which, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the user to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The determination of which items are separately disclosed as exceptional items requires a significant degree of judgement.
Taxation The group is required to estimate the corporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
This requires an estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different accounting and tax treatments.
These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets or liabilities which are included within the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantially enacted tax rates expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised where it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realised in the future.
This evaluation requires judgements to be made including the forecast of future taxable income.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
The group operates in many countries in the world and is subject to many tax jurisdictions and rules.
As a consequence the group is subject to tax audits, which by their nature are often complex and can require several years to conclude.
Management judgement is required to determine the total provision for income tax.
Amounts accrued are based on managements interpretation of country specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
However the actual tax liabilities could differ from the provision and in such event the group would be required to make an adjustment in a subsequent period which could have a material impact on the groups profit and loss and or cash position.
