Drax Group plc 100 Annual report and accounts 2008 Glossary Ancillary services Group Technical Availability Services provided by National Grid plc used for balancing Drax Group plc and its subsidiaries.
Total availability after planned and forced outages.
supply and demand or maintaining secure electricity IASs Through the mill co-firing supplies within acceptable limits.
They are described International Accounting Standards.
Is a process whereby biomass passes first through the in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
pulverising mills before going to the burners situated IFRSs Availability in the boiler walls.
Average percentage of time the units were available TXU for generation.
LECs TXU Europe Energy Trading Limited in administration Levy Exemption Certificates.
Evidence of Climate Average achieved price and subject to a company voluntary arrangement.
Change Levy exempt electricity supplies generated Power revenues divided by volume of net sales from qualifying renewable sources.
TXU Claim includes imbalance charges.
The claim issued by the Group, ultimately agreed by the Load factor Average capture price Administrators of TXU at approximately 336.0 million Net sent out generation as a percentage of Revenue derived from bilateral contracts divided excluding VAT in respect of unpaid power purchased maximum sales.
by volume of net merchant sales.
by TXU and liquidated damages under the TXU Contract.
Lost Time Injury Rate Balancing Mechanism TXU Contract The frequency rate calculated on the following basis The period during which the System Operator can call A 15-year power purchase agreement with TXU.
number of accidents x 100,000 hours worked.
upon additional generation consumption or reduce Accidents are defined as occurrences when the injured UK NAP generation consumption, through market participants party is absent from work for more than 24 hours.
bids and offers, in order to balance the system minute by minute.
Net Balancing Mechanism Winter Net volumes attributable to accepted bids and offers The calendar months October to March.
Baseload in the Balancing Mechanism.
Running 24 hours per day, seven days per week Winter baseload market close remaining permanently synchronised to the system.
Net merchant sales Market price on the last day that the season was Net volumes attributable to bilateral contracts and traded as a product.
Bilateral contracts power exchange trades.
Contracts with counterparties and power exchange trades.
Net sales The aggregate of net merchant sales and net Company Balancing Mechanism.
Occupational health and safety Dark green spread assessment series OHSAS The difference between the price available in the The OHSAS specification gives requirements for an market for sales of electricity and the marginal cost occupational health and safety management system, of production being the cost of coal and other fuels to enable an organisation to control its occupational including C02 emissions allowances.
health and safety risks and improve its performance.
Direct-injection co-firing Planned Outage Is a process whereby biomass is fed directly that is, A period during which scheduled maintenance is avoiding the pulverising mills to the burners situated executed according to the plan set at the outset in the boiler walls.
EBITDA Planned Outage Rate Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, The capacity not available due to planned outages exceptional items and unrealised gains losses on expressed as a percentage of the maximum derivative contracts.
ESIP Power exchange trades The Drax Group plc Restricted Share Plan, also known Power sales or purchases transacted on the as the Drax Group plc Executive Share Incentive Plan.
APX UK power trading platform.
EU ETS Power revenues The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism The aggregate of bilateral contracts and Balancing introduced across the EU to reduce emissions of CO2: Mechanism income expense.
the scheme is capable of being extended to cover all greenhouse gas emissions.
Under the current Forced Outage regime, one ROC is issued to eligible generators for every Any reduction in plant availability excluding MWh of electricity generated from renewable sources.
SAYE Plan Forced Outage Rate The Drax Group plc Approved Savings-Related Share The capacity which is not available due to forced Option Plan.
outages or restrictions expressed as a percentage of the maximum theoretical capacity, less planned SIP outage capacity.
The Drax Group plc Approved Share Incentive Plan.
Frequency Response Service Summer Services purchased by National Grid plc used to maintain The calendar months April to September.
Summer baseload market close Market price on the last day that the season was traded as a product.
Contents Business review Company profile 01 Principal performance indicators and summary of operational achievements during 2008 01 Chairmans introduction 02 Chief Executives statement 06 Business and financial review 12 Corporate and social responsibility review 26 Shareholder information 95 Company information, professional advisers and service providers 99 Glossary 100 Governance Board of directors 36 Directors report 38 Corporate governance 42 Audit Committee report 46 Nominations Committee report 48 Remuneration Committee report 49 Directors responsibility statement 58 Financials Group Independent auditors report 59 Consolidated income statements 61 Consolidated statements of recognised income and expense 62 Consolidated balance sheets 63 Consolidated cash flow statements 64 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 65 Company Independent auditors report 90 Company balance sheets 91 Notes to the Company balance sheets 92 Design and production: Radley Yeldar London | www.
com Photography: Marcus Ginns and Lloyd Sturdy Print: Granite 4 think bright is produced with 100% ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pulp that is sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
The range is fully recyclable and manufactured within a mill which is registered under the British quality standard of BS EN ISO 90012000 and the environmental standard of ISO 14001.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Drax Group plc Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Annual report and accounts 2008 Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
