Financial Statements Notice of Meeting Notice of Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting 2008 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of DS Smith Plc d these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009 or, if earlier, 2 December 2009 save that will be held at the Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, the Company shall be entitled under such authorities to honour at any London EC2M 7QN, on Wednesday 3 September 2008 at 12 noon to time before expiry thereof any commitment to allot its ordinary shares consider and, if thought t, pass the following resolutions, of which which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of Resolutions 1 to 8 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions such authority: and 9, 10 and 11 will be proposed as special resolutions.
1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report, the Auditors Report and e all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Companies Act financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2008.
10 That in accordance with article 11 of the Articles of Association of the 2 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
Company and the Companies Act 1985, the Company is generally 3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each 4 To elect Mr G M B Adams as a Director of the Company.
in the capital of the Company in such manner and on such terms as 5 To elect Mr S W Dryden as a Director of the Company.
the Directors may from time to time determine provided that: 6 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company to hold a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be ofce until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts purchased is 39,335,589 ordinary shares: are to be laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is determine the remuneration of the auditors.
10p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : 7 That the DS Smith Plc 2008 Performance Share Plan the Plan, the c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share main features of which are summarised on pages 108 to 109, be is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market approved and the Directors be authorised to: quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock a do all such acts and things as they may consider appropriate to Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately implement the Plan: and preceding the date of any such purchase and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 b establish further plans based on the Plan but modied to take account in each case exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such further plans are d the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall revoked or renewed, expire at the conclusion of the Annual General participation in the Plan.
Meeting to be held in 2009 or, if earlier, 2 December 2009, save that the Company shall be entitled under such authority to make at any time 8That: before the expiry thereof any contract to purchase its ordinary shares a in accordance with article 6 of the Articles of Association of the which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of Company, the Directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up such authority.
to a maximum nominal amount of 11,013,965: 11 That the regulations set out in the printed document submitted to the b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of identication initialled by the Chairman Meeting to be held in 2009 or, if earlier, 2 December 2009 save that be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution the Company shall be entitled under such authority to honour at any for and to the exclusion of all existing articles of association of the time before expiry thereof any commitment to allot its ordinary shares Company with effect on and from 1 October 2008. which will or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of By Order of the Board such authority: and c all previous authorities under Section 80 of the Companies Act Carolyn Cattermole 1985 be revoked.
Company Secretary 9That: 416 Artillery Row London SW1P 1RZ a in accordance with article 7 of the Articles of Association of 17 July 2008 the Company, the Directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities within Section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply: c the powers under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue and paragraph b above shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a maximum nominal amount of 1,966,779: 106 www.
com Notes provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a i Only those Members registered in the Register of Members of the message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular Company as at 6 pm on 1 September 2008 shall be entitled to time.
In this connection, CREST Members and, where applicable, their attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, registered in their names at that time.
to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid ii Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at the Meeting.
A 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the vii As at 25 June 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
publication of this document, the Companys issued share capital A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
consists of 393,355,893 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 25 June 2008 iii A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be effective, Forms of Proxy must are 393,355,893. reach the Registrars at the address shown on the Form not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Completion and return of viii In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the the Form will not, however, prevent a Member from attending and Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Meeting so that voting at the Meeting.
a if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on iv Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information representatives for that shareholder at the Meeting, then on a poll rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between them those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the and the shareholder by whom they were nominated, have a right to Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy b if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any shareholder attends the Meeting but the corporate shareholder has not such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder appointed the Chairman of the Meeting as its corporate representative, as to the exercise of voting rights.
a designated corporate representative will be nominated from those v The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and of proxies in Notes ii and iii above does not apply to Nominated the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are exercised by shareholders of the Company.
referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives vi CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is Meeting to be held on 3 September 2008 and any adjournment s being appointed as described in a above.
thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal Members or other CREST sponsored Members, ix Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection and those CREST Members who have appointed a voting service at the Companys Registered Ofce and at the ofces of Allen & provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London E1 6AO during normal provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on business hours and at the place of the Meeting from 11.45 am their behalf.
until its conclusion: In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST a service contracts of the Executive Directors: service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with b letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Euroclears specications and must contain the information required Non-Executive Directors: for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, c the current Articles of Association: and regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy d the proposed new Articles of Association.
must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the x The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time for receipt of proxy will be available to answer relevant questions at the Meeting.
appointments specified in iii above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Explanatory notes on the resolutions the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST Resolution 1: in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of Report and financial statements instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be The Directors present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the communicated to the appointee through other means.
Reports of the Directors and Auditors and the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2008.
These are contained in the CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting Annual Report.
service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal Resolution 2: system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the Declaration of a final dividend input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST Final dividends declared by shareholders must not exceed the amount Member concerned to take or, if the CREST Member is a CREST recommended by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, shareholders personal Member or sponsored Member or has appointed a voting will declare a final dividend.
The amount of the final dividend service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service recommended by the Directors is 6.2p net per ordinary share.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 107 Notice of Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting 2008 continued d Individual limit Resolution 3: An employee may not receive awards in any financial year over Shares Approval of Report on Remuneration having a market value in excess of 150% of his annual base salary in As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, that financial year.
In exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment or shareholder approval is sought for the Remuneration Report set out on retention, this limit is increased to 200% of an employees annual base pages 43 to 50. salary.
The Committee intends to grant initial awards at the 150% level Resolutions 4 5: to the Executive Directors of the Company and at generally lower levels Election of Directors for other executives.
The Articles of Association of the Company require that a Director e Performance conditions appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting shall be subject to The vesting of awards will be subject to performance conditions set by election by the shareholders.
Mr Adams was appointed Director with effect the Committee.
from 29 January 2008 and, in accordance with the Articles, he retires from ofce at the Meeting.
He is a member of the Audit Committee.
Mr Dryden For the initial awards which are due to be made to those employees with was appointed a Director with effect from 1 April 2008.
He is a member of Group-related roles which includes the Companys Executive Directors, the General Purposes Committee.
Being eligible they both offer themselves each award will be subject to three equally weighted performance for election.
A biography of each Director, including those seeking election, measures comprising: i total shareholder return TSR relative to the appears on page 39 of the Annual Report.
constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the FTSE 250: ii average adjusted earnings per share EPS : and iii average The Articles of Association of the Company require that all Directors who, adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE.
In each case, at the start of business on the date which is 30 clear days prior to the date performance will be measured over three financial years starting on of this Notice of Meeting, have held ofce for more than 30 months since 1 May 2008.
Vesting of the awards will be as follows: they were last appointed or reappointed to the Company in general meeting retire from ofce but are eligible to submit themselves for re-election Percentage vesting as Average a proportion of that Average adjusted by the shareholders.
There are no Directors who are in this position.
element of the award Relative TSR adjusted EPS ROACE Resolution 6: 100% Upper quartile 19.0p 12.5% Re-appointment of Auditors and Auditors remuneration Between Between Between Between The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting 25% and median and 16.5p 11.5% at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 6 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, until the next 100% upper quartile and 19.0p and 12.5% Annual General Meeting and also gives authority to the Directors to 25% Median 16.5p 11.5% determine the auditors remuneration.
The Companys TSR will be compared with the TSR of each of the Resolution 7: companies in the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the Approval of the DS Smith Performance Share Plan FTSE 250 as at the date of grant of the award.
Relative TSR performance The rationale for the introduction of the DS Smith Plc 2008 Performance will be assessed using a 60-day averaging period before the beginning and Share Plan the Plan is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 44. the end of the three-year measurement period.
The following is a summary of the principal terms of the Plan.
The EPS measure will be based on the average adjusted EPS as reported a Operation in the Annual Report over the three-year measurement period.
The The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company Committee may adjust the EPS gure in exceptional circumstances.
the Committee will supervise the operation of the Plan.
The ROACE measure will be based on the average adjusted Group b Eligibility operating profit divided by the monthly average of capital employed Any employee including an Executive Director of the Company and its in the year, measured over the three-year measurement period.
subsidiaries the Group will be eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Committee.
Executives working in one of the four separate Business Segments of the Group will have a different set of measures, reecting responsibility for c Grant of awards performance in their own segment.
One-third of these awards will be based The Committee may grant awards to acquire Ordinary Shares in the on the Companys relative TSR performance as described above, but the Company Shares within six weeks of shareholder approval of the Plan remaining two-thirds will be based, as to one-third on the average adjusted and it is intended that the first awards will be made within this period.
operating profit for the relevant business segment, and as to the final third The Committee may also grant awards within six weeks of the Companys on the average adjusted ROACE for the same business segment.
announcement of its results for any period and at any other time when the Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances which justify the The Committee may set different performance conditions from those granting of awards.
described above for future awards provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the new targets are not materially less challenging in the An award will normally be in the form of a conditional award of free Shares circumstances than those described above.
which will normally vest on its third anniversary subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and the continued employment of the participant The Committee may also vary the performance conditions applying to within the Group.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash-based existing awards if an event or events occur which causes the Committee awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy shareto consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original An award may not be granted more than ten years after shareholder conditions would have been but for the event or events in question.
While approval of the Plan.
it is expected that this power to vary the performance conditions is most No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not likely to be used to reect technical events such as a variation in share transferable, except on death.
capital or a change in accounting standards, if the Committee wanted 108 www.
com to use the power to take account of a significant acquisition or disposal then l Variation of capital it would first consult with the Companys major shareholders.
In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which f Vesting of awards materially affects the market price of the Shares, the Committee may make Awards normally vest three years after grant to the extent that the applicable such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of Shares subject performance conditions see above have been satisfied and provided the to an award.
participant is still employed in the Group.
m Overall Plan limits g Dividend equivalents The Plan may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or Shares The Committee may decide that participants will receive a payment in cash purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar year period, the Company and or Shares on or shortly following the vesting of their awards, of an may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: amount based on the dividends that would have been paid on those Shares a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they Plan and any other employee share plan adopted by the Company: and vest.
The amount of the payment may take into account reinvestment of the notional dividends.
Alternatively, participants may have their awards b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the increased as if dividends were paid on the Shares subject to their award Plan and any other executive share plan adopted by the Company.
and then reinvested in further Shares.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the purposes of these h Leaving employment limits unless institutional investors decide that they need not count.
As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold n Alterations to the Plan employment or be a Director within the Group.
However, if a participant The Committee may, at any time, amend the Plan in any respect, provided ceases to be an employee or Director because of his death, injury, that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments disability, retirement, redundancy, his employing company or the business that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing for which he works being sold out of the Group or in other circumstances eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares at the discretion of the Committee, then his award will normally vest on or the transfer of treasury Shares, the basis for determining a participants the normal vesting date.
The extent to which an award will vest in these entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or cash to be acquired and the situations will depend upon: i the extent to which the performance adjustment of awards.
conditions have been satisfied over the normal performance period: and ii the pro-rating of the award to reect any reduced period of time The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, between the first day of the performance period and the date of cessation, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Group.
Shareholder approval will If a participant ceases to be an employee or Director in the Group for one also not be required for any amendments to any performance condition of the good leaver reasons specified above, the Committee can decide, applying to an award.
in exceptional circumstances, that his award will vest on the date of leaving employment or ofce.
The extent to which an award will vest in this situation o Overseas plans will depend upon: i the extent to which the performance conditions are, in This Resolution to approve the Plan will allow the Board to establish further the opinion of the Committee, satisfied after it has taken into account past plans for overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the Plan, but performance and, where appropriate, expected future performance over modied to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any Shares made available under such further plans are the remainder of the relevant performance period: and ii pro-rating by treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation reference to the time of cessation as described above.
The rules of the Plan include a schedule to allow the grant of i Corporate events French tax-advantaged awards.
This schedule makes minor modications In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up of the to the Plan rules for French participants.
Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation all awards will Resolution 8: vest early subject to: i the extent to which the performance conditions are, Directors authority to allot shares in the opinion of the Committee, satisfied after it has taken into account past Authority was granted to the Directors at last years Annual General performance and, where appropriate, expected future performance over the Meeting, pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot remainder of the relevant performance period: and ii the pro-rating of the shares in the Company without the prior consent of shareholders.
Resolution awards to reect any reduced period of time between the first day of the 8, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, will, if passed, give performance period and their vesting, although the Committee can decide the Directors renewed authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the value of 11,013,965 representing approximately 28% of the issued share particular circumstances.
capital of the Company on 25 June 2008, being the latest practicable date In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards will be prior to publication of this document.
replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company Other than in connection with any exercise of options under the Groups unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on the basis which employee share option schemes, the Directors have no present intention of would apply in the case of a takeover.
exercising the allotment authority proposed by this Resolution.
This authority j Participants rights will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, or, if Awards will not confer any shareholder rights until they have vested and earlier, on 2 December 2009, except in so far as commitments to allot the participants have received their Shares.
shares have been entered into before that date.
It is the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
k Rights attaching to Shares Any Shares allotted when an award vests will rank equally with Shares Resolution 9: then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior Directors power to disapply pre-emption rights to their allotment.
This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, supplements DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 109 Notice of Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting 2008 continued the Directors authority to allot shares in the Company proposed by The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the options over Resolution 8.
Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 requires a company unissued ordinary shares represented on this date was 1.52% and the proportion of issued ordinary share capital that they will represent if the proposing to allot equity securities for cash to offer them first to existing full authority to purchase shares existing and being sought is used is shareholders pro rata to their existing shareholdings.
The authority will expire on 2 December 2009 or at the conclusion to the Directors at last years Annual General Meeting and the Directors of the next Annual General Meeting whichever is the earlier.
It is the propose to seek shareholders approval to renew this authority, pursuant present intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot such securities, notwithstanding the requirement imposed by Section 89, in two cases: Resolution 11: in connection with a rights issue: and Adoption of new Articles It is proposed to ask shareholders to approve, with effect from 1 October 2008, allotments of shares for cash up to a total nominal value of 1,966,779 a number of amendments to the Companys current Articles of Association representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share capital primarily to reect certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the at 25 June 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to publication CA 2006. of this document although it is not intended without prior consultation with the investment committee of the Association of British Insurers to issue Resolution 11 proposes to adopt new Articles of Association the New or transfer in this way more than 7.5% of the share capital in a rolling Articles with effect from 1 October 2008.
These update the Companys three-year period.
This gives the Directors exibility to take advantage of current Articles of Association the Current Articles primarily to take business opportunities as they arise, including the sale of any shares the account of changes in English company law brought about by certain Company has purchased and held in treasury, whilst the 5% limit ensures provisions of the CA 2006. that existing shareholders interests are protected, and is in line with The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are set out below.
guidelines issued by institutional investors bodies.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature, have This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General not been noted.
Meeting, or, if earlier, on 2 December 2009, except in so far as a Articles which duplicate statutory provisions commitments to allot shares have been entered into before that date.
It is Provisions in the Current Articles which reect provisions contained in the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
the Companies Act 1985 are amended to bring them into line with Resolution 10: the equivalent provisions contained in the CA 2006.
Examples of such Companys authority to purchase shares provisions, including provisions relating to proxies and to convening This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks to and notice of general meetings, are detailed below.
renew the existing authority for the Company to purchase its own shares in b Form of resolution the market.
This authority gives the Company greater exibility in managing The Current Articles contain a provision that, subject to legislation its capital resources.
The Directors have no specic intention of using this where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or authority and would do so only when, in the light of market conditions, they extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary believed that the effect of such purchases would be to increase earnings resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision per share, and that the purchases were in the interests of shareholders and certain other provisions are being amended as the concept of generally.
The Directors would also give careful consideration to gearing extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the CA 2006. levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
Resolution 10 species c Convening and notice of general meetings the maximum number of shares which may be purchased representing It is proposed that the provisions in the Current Articles dealing with approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 30 April convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to 2008, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this convene general meetings be amended to conform to the new provisions document, the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be in the CA 2006.
In particular, a general meeting other than an annual bought and when the authority will expire, reecting the requirements general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on of the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
The maximum price at which the shares may be purchased is the higher of d Quorum requirements 5% above the average of the middle market values of those shares for the The CA 2006 provides that in general terms the quorum for a general five business days before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated meeting be calculated by reference to the numbers of qualifying persons by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003. who are present at the meeting, which includes an individual who is a The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations member of the Company, a person authorised under Section 323 of the CA 2003 enable certain listed companies to hold shares in treasury, as an 2006 to act as the representative of a corporation, and a person appointed alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by the as proxy of a member.
As before, it is proposed that the quorum for a Company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Shares held in general meeting will be two but in line with the CA 2006, the New Articles treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy make clear that there will be no double counting for qualifying persons who share options and share awards under the Companys share schemes.
are representatives of the same corporation or proxies of the same member.
Once held in treasury, the Company is not entitled to exercise any rights, e Proxies including the right to attend and vote at meetings, in respect of those shares.
A proxy has a statutory right under the CA 2006 to speak at any general Further, no dividend or distribution of the Companys assets may be made meeting.
Under the CA 2006, proxies are also entitled to vote on a show to the Company in respect of those shares whilst held in treasury.
of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by Resolution on a poll.
Multiple proxies may be appointed to exercise the rights attached 10, the Company will have the option of holding those shares in treasury to a different share held by the shareholder.
The New Articles reect these rather than cancelling them.
The total number of ordinary shares that are new rules, as appropriate.
under option through the Companys share option schemes at 25 June 2008 f Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice is The cap on aggregate fees payable to Non-Executive Directors is being 7,007,554 of which 5,980,440 are options over unissued ordinary shares.
com increased to 750,000 per annum.
The Remuneration Committee believes Recommendation Your Directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the that this increase will ensure that the Company will continue in the future to Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and have the ability to appoint and retain the best Non-Executive Directors.
its shareholders and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the g Electronic and web communications resolutions.
The Directors will be voting in favour of the resolutions in Provisions of the CA 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable respect of their own shareholdings.
companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles continue to allow communications to Important notes about the Annual General Meeting members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the new provisions relating to website Date communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member Wednesday 3 September 2008 by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or Location supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which Timing the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and shareholders wishing or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is to attend are advised to be in the venue no later than 11.50 am.
The placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy reception area will be open from 11.30 am, from which time refreshments version of the document or information.
It is not currently envisaged that the will be served.
Company will utilise this authority to communicate with members by means of website communication.
Travel information See map on the reverse of Admittance Card for the location of the Andaz h Directors indemnities formerly Great Eastern Hotel and the nearest underground and railway The CA 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a stations.
The venue is less than five minutes walk from Liverpool Street company to indemnify directors.
This is reected in the New Articles.
There are no car-parking facilities at the venue.
opportunity is also being taken to clarify that, subject to the CA 2006, the Company may grant indemnities to directors of associated companies.
Admission i Directors interests Please bring the Admittance Card which is the tear-off section at the bottom The CA 2006 sets out directors general duties.
The provisions largely of the Form of Proxy with you to the Meeting.
You may be asked to show codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the CA 2006, from the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders and proxy 1 October 2008, a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can holders may also be required to provide proof of identity.
The registration have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict with process may take longer without these documents.
Shareholders are politely the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for requested to bring no more than one guest to the Meeting except by prior example, if a Director becomes a director of another company or a trustee arrangement with the Company Secretary.
The CA 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conicts and potential conicts where the articles of association Facilities contain a provision to this effect.
The CA 2006 also allows the articles of The Andaz formerly Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair access.
If you are association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conicts planning to come to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would be of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles, which will take helpful if you would telephone the venue in advance on 020 7618 5618. effect on and from 1 October 2008, give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conicts of interest Enquiries and questions to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business of the There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and question at the to authorise a conict or potential conict.
These include rstly, only Registration desk.
Staff from Equiniti will be on hand to provide advice independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being and assistance.
considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
It is proposed to include provisions relating to condential information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conict of interest or potential conict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conict has previously been authorised by the Directors.
A copy of the New Articles and a copy of the Current Articles marked to show changes being proposed by resolution 11 are available for inspection as noted in Note ix above.
Due to the phased nature of implementation of the CA 2006, it is likely that further related changes to the Articles of Association will be proposed at a subsequent Annual General Meeting.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 111
