Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited financial Substantial Shareholders statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2008.
The Directors At 25 June 2008, the Company has been informed of the following statement as to disclosure of information to auditors, as required by notiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital in accordance with Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, is on page 53. the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Ordinary shares held % Principal Activities and Business Review Schroder Investment Management Ltd 51,189,073 13.01% The Company acts as the holding company of a group, which, during 2007 08, was engaged in the supply of corrugated and plastic packaging AXA S. A.
42,129,393 10.71% and of paper, from recycled waste, and the wholesaling of ofce products.
Sparinvest Holdings A S 19,992,238 5.08% A full review of the activities during the financial year ended 30 April 2008 Barclays PLC 11,917,304 3.03% is set out on pages 1 to 37.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages 31 to 32.
A discussion of future developments and key performance indicators that management use is Acquisitions and Disposals set out in the Business Review on page 8.
The principal subsidiary On 29 February 2008, the Group acquired M-real New Thames Limited undertakings are listed in note 32 on page 98. which owns a paper mill in Kent.
On this date and as part of the same acquisition the Group acquired the balance of the shares in Grovehurst The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Review can be Energy Limited not already owned by the Group.
Grovehurst provides found in the Business Review on pages 1 to 37, which are incorporated in energy and other services to the entire Kemsley site on which the New this report by reference.
The joint venture in Grovehurst Energy Limited was entered into in 1988 in connection with the Groups acquisition of the Cautionary Statement Kemsley Mill, which is adjacent to New Thames Mill.
The Group paid The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the members 71.1 million being 67.4 million in relation to New Thames and of the Company and no-one else.
The Annual Report contains certain 3.7 million in relation to Grovehurst Energy.
forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements On 4 March 2008 the Group acquired Multigraphics Holdings Limited, involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results a print and retail display business in the UK, for 6.7 million.
and developments to differ from those anticipated.
The forward-looking 11.9 million was incurred as the settlement of put options held by minority, statements reect knowledge and information available at the date of non-controlling shareholders in the Groups subsidiary in Italy, Toscana preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no Ondulati SpA.
obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Research and Development The Group recognises the importance of continuing to invest in research Results for the Year and development.
It is Group policy to develop new product specications The financial results are shown on pages 56 to104.
commensurate with environmental needs and packaging solutions required by customers.
Research is also conducted into ways to improve product Dividends quality and to nd more cost-efficient methods of production and An interim dividend of 2.6p net per ordinary share was paid on distribution.
Research and development is conducted within divisional 4 March 2008 and the Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.2p operations and expenditure is not significant.
net per ordinary share, making a total dividend to be paid for the year of 8.8p 2006 07: 8.6p net per ordinary share.
Subject to approval of Directors shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 September 2008, The biographies of the present Directors are on page 39.
All the Directors the final dividend will be paid on 16 September 2008 to shareholders served throughout the year except as follows.
Mr D R Piette retired from on the register at the close of business on 15 August 2008.
The dividends the Board on 30 May 2007.
Mr G M B Adams was appointed as a per ordinary share stated above are those actually paid or to be paid.
Mr G M Morris retired Historical dividends per share have been restated for the bonus element from the Board on 1 April 2008 and Mr S W Dryden was appointed to inherent in the 26 March 2004 rights issue in the Five-Year Financial the Board as Group Finance Director on the same date.
Other than as Summary on page 105. previously disclosed in this Report and in respect of existing service agreements, no Director, either during or at the end of the financial year, Share Capital has been materially interested in any significant contract or arrangement Details of the authorised and issued share capital and the rights and in relation to the Groups business.
restrictions attached to the shares, together with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 23.
In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended Pursuant to the Companys employee share option schemes, 153,761 by the Companies Act 2006 the Directors disclose that the rules regarding ordinary shares of 10p each were issued during the year.
No shares the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the pursuant to the Companys employee share option schemes were issued Companys Articles of Association, which may only be amended with between 30 April 2008 and 25 June 2008 inclusive.
The Company has shareholder approval in accordance with relevant legislation.
The powers not utilised its authority to make market purchases of shares granted to it of the Directors are contained in the Companys Memorandum of at the 2007 Annual General Meeting but will be seeking to renew such Association and Articles.
The Articles give the Directors powers, subject to relevant legislation, to authorise the issue and buy-back of the Companys authority at this years Meeting.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 51 Financial Statements Governance Directors Report continued shares by the Company, subject to authority being given to the Directors by Pension Fund shareholders in general meeting.
The Company annually seeks the authority The Group had, in the year under review, four UK pension arrangements: of shareholders to authorise the exercise by Directors of these powers.
one dened benefit scheme which is closed to new employees, one dened contribution scheme, one Group personal pension plan and a statutory Stakeholder arrangement.
The dened contribution scheme was Re-election of Directors introduced for UK employees joining the Group on or after 1 May 2005.
The Articles of Association require that all Directors who have either been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, or who, at The investments of the assets of the dened benefit scheme are managed the start of business on the date which is 30 clear days prior to the date on a discretionary basis by AllianceBernstein Institutional Investment of the notice convening the Annual General Meeting, have held ofce for Management Limited, Majedie Asset Management Limited, Pacic more than 30 months since they were appointed or last re-appointed by Investment Management Company and Barclays Global Investors Limited.
the Company in general meeting, retire from ofce but they are eligible to The dened contribution scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
The only Directors in members a range of investments with AXA Sun Life plc and other external this position are Mr Adams and Mr Dryden, who have been appointed to investment fund managers as selected by the Schemes trustees.
The Group the Board since the last Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer personal pension plan is a contract-based arrangement offering members a themselves for election.
Following formal performance evaluation, the range of investments with Norwich Union Life and other external investment individual performance of the Directors offering themselves for election fund managers, and the Stakeholder arrangement is provided through has been effective and they have demonstrated commitment to the role.
All such assets are held independently from the Group.
The trustees of the dened benefit scheme and the dened contribution scheme send an Annual Report to all members of the respective Directors Interests in Shares schemes.
The Trustee Company of the dened benefit scheme has an The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the ordinary Investment Sub-Committee, established in line with the recommended shares of 10p each of the Company, including options granted but not yet guidelines of the Myners Report.
Peter Murray of Allenbridge Investment exercised under the Executive Share Option Scheme, Restricted Share Plan, Consultants is appointed as an independent adviser to the Investment Long-Term Incentive Plan, Deferred Share Bonus Plan and Replacement Sub-Committee of the DS Smith Group Pension Scheme.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan, were as shown in the tables on pages 47 to 49.
Health and Safety The Group recognises its responsibilities and continues to promote all Directors Indemnities aspects of health and safety in the interests of its employees and members The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity of the public.
A Health and Safety Policy Statement has been approved by arrangements for the benefit of its Directors in a form and scope which the Board.
comply with the requirements of the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006. significant Agreements Employee Involvement and Communications The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that take The Group is committed to frequent and effective employee communications effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
The to promote the understanding and involvement of all its employees in the Company has a number of borrowing and related derivative facilities Groups business objectives and performance.
Communications and provided by various lenders.
These facilities agreements generally personnel policies have been developed to reect the philosophy of include change of control provisions which, in the event of a change of operating management.
Information is regularly communicated by briengs ownership of the Company could result in renegotiation or withdrawal and newsletters.
The Group operates a European Works Council, with of these facilities.
representatives drawn from across the entire workforce in the EU countries in which the Group operates.
Meetings are held to provide an exchange The significant agreements are as set out in note 19.
On 3 March 2005, the Company, St Regis Paper Company Limited and BPB United Kingdom of transnational information and consultation with employees.
At each Limited now part of the Saint-Gobain Group Saint-Gobain entered into meeting, presentations are made on the Groups business strategy, financial a supply agreement for the manufacture and supply of plasterboard liner results, health and safety and environmental performance.
The Group also paper to Saint-Gobain.
Saint-Gobain may terminate the agreement if there has a number of divisional national Consultation Forums which promote is a change of control in the Company.
information exchange, consultation and representation between the Group and its workforce.
Business decisions concerning capital investment, There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate employment and training take into account the Groups public and local upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such responsibilities.
The Group supports the involvement of its operations in as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is considered local community activities.
to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Equal Opportunities The Group is rmly committed to both the principle and realisation of equal Payment to Suppliers opportunities in employment and its policies are designed to provide such Although the Company does not follow any formal code or standard on equality irrespective of sex, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual payment practice, the Company agrees terms and conditions in the UK orientation, age or disability.
Every possible step is taken to ensure that with each supplier, which include terms of payment.
The Company pays individuals are treated equally and fairly.
The Group applies the same each supplier accordingly, subject to all the terms and conditions of the criteria to people with disabilities as it does to other employees.
Where order being satisfied by such supplier.
As DS Smith Plc is a holding appropriate, facilities are adapted and retraining is offered to any company, whose principal business is to hold shares in Group companies, it has no trade creditors.
employee who develops a disability during their employment.
com Charitable and Political Donations provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic The Group contributed 72,000 2006 07: 71,000 to charities in the requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the UK.
No payments were made to political parties.
Donations were made impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the by operating divisions to support their local communities.
The Group also entitys financial position and financial performance.
supported a number of other charities across a range of causes.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Annual General Meeting Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on law.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give 3 September 2008, together with explanations of the Resolutions to be a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit proposed, appears at the back of this Annual Report.
or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Auditors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Each Director confirms that: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the b he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order financial statements.
to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be put to financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also the Annual General Meeting.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for By Order of the Board taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Carolyn Cattermole The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company Secretary corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
25 June 2008 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Annual Report and the Financial Statements Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken applicable law and regulations.
as a whole: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for b the management report includes a fair review of the development and each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to performance of the business and the position of the Company and the prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, Steve Dryden financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful Group Finance Director representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 53
