Glossary Aircraft owned leased at end of period Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements of over one months duration at the end of the period.
Available seat kilometres ASK Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres flown.
Average fare Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by passengers.
Block hours Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available seat kilometres.
Cost per seat Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided by seats flown.
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, dry lease and long-term wet lease costs, and the share of profit after tax of associates.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
Passengers Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats comprises seats sold to passengers including noshows, seats provided for promotional purposes and seats provided to staff for business travel.
Profit before tax per seat Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Return on equity Profit for the year divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders funds.
Revenue The sum of revenue from ticket sales and ancillary revenue.
Revenue passenger kilometres RPK Number of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometres those passengers were flown.
Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Revenue per seat Revenue divided by seats flown.
Seats flown Seats available for passengers.
Shareholder information Financial calendar Financial year end 30 September 2008 Annual General Meeting 5 February 2009 Announcement of 2009 results Release of interim results to 31 March 2009 6 May 2009 Preliminary results year to 30 September 2009 17 November 2009 Registered office Company registrar Auditors Hangar 89 Equiniti Limited  LLP London Luton Airport Aspect House Bedfordshire Spencer Road LU2 9PF Lancing West Sussex Company number BN99 6DA 3959649 This annual report is printed on Revive 100 uncoated, the paper is produced from 100% recovered waste.
Both the paper mill and printer involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement and both are FSC certified.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This report is available at: http: easyjet.
com EN Investor investorrelations financialreports.
html Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
com 81 Other information Financial information Report on Directors remuneration Directors report Overview Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF www.
