15 Investments 2008 2007 m m Jointly controlled entity 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 For details of the jointly controlled entity, see note 16 to the Group accounts.
16 Principal subsidiary undertakings and associated undertakings Country of Principal location incorporation Mail order of electronic, electrical and mechanical products RS Components Pty Limited Sydney Australia RS Components GesmbH Gmnd Austria Allied Electronics Canada Inc. Ottawa Canada RS Componentes Electrnicos Limitada Santiago Chile RS Components A S Copenhagen Denmark Radiospares Composants SNC Beauvais France RS Components GmbH Frankfurt Germany RS Components Limited Kowloon Hong Kong RS Components & Controls India Limited New Delhi India RS Components SpA Milan Italy RS Components KK Yokohama Japan RS Components Sdn Bhd Kuala Lumpur Malaysia RS Components BV Haarlem Netherlands RS Components Limited Auckland New Zealand RS Components AS Haugesund Norway RS Components Shanghai Company Limited Shanghai Peoples Republic of China Radionics Limited Dublin Republic of Ireland RS Components Pte Limited Singapore Singapore Amidata SA Madrid Spain RS Components AB Vllingby Sweden RS Components Company Limited Bangkok Thailand RS Components Limited Corby United Kingdom Allied Electronics Inc. Fort Worth, TX United States of America Holding and Management Companies Electrocomponents France SARL Beauvais France Electrocomponents UK Limited Oxford United Kingdom RS Components Holdings Limited Oxford United Kingdom Electrocomponents North America Inc. Laytonsville, MD United States of America Except as stated below all of the above are wholly owned by Electrocomponents plc.
Those companies marked with an asterisk are indirectly owned.
The companies operate within their countries of incorporation.
RS Components Limited UK exports to most countries where we do not have a trading company and operates branch offices in Japan, South Africa, Taiwan, and the Philippines.
RS Components Limited also operates under the names of RS Calibration, RS Mechanical and RS Health & Safety in the United Kingdom.
RS Components & Controls India Limited RSCC is a jointly controlled entity with Controls & Switchgear Company Limited, a company registered in India.
The authorised share capital of this company is Rs20m, of which Rs18m is issued and owned in equal shares by Electrocomponents UK Limited and its partner.
RS Components Limited supplies product and catalogues to RSCC, while office space and distribution network are provided by Controls & Switchgear.
During the year ended 31 March 2008 the Group made sales of 0.8m 2007: 0.8m to RSCC and supplied catalogues at a cost to RSCC of 0.1m 2007: 0.1m.
RSCC is treated in the accounts as an associated undertaking.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51
