Additional Information for Electrocomponents plc Shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
consulted if further information is required.
Any amendments to the Articles The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
A new set of articles will be Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two adopted at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 July 2008 and to months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged be effective from 1 October 2008.
Further details are set out in the Notice with the Company send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
of the Annual General Meeting.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may Dividends and distributions determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim and transferred.
dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or the Board, justifies such payment.
of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other to take place.
monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than 15 in number.
served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the A Director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce Companies Acts.
the maximum or minimum number of Directors.
Voting Rights At each Annual General Meeting held in each year, one-third of the Directors Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, or if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number nearest at a general meeting, every member present in person and every duly to, but not less than, one-third, shall retire from office.
In addition, any appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders current calendar year shall retire by rotation.
A retiring Director is eligible a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion for re-election.
of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the Members in respect of the shares.
total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in these Articles.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next Annual Restrictions on voting General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election, but shall not No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if to retire by rotation at such meeting.
any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been Powers of the Directors served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Companies Acts.
Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or any third party.
Significant Agreements: Change of control Variation of rights All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights attached to of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that of any performance conditions at that time.
class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a Amendment of Articles of Association separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance Transfer of shares with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual A special resolution will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors.
The held on 18 July 2008 to adopt a new set of articles of association of instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and the Company, and to be effective from 1 October 2008. except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
74 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
