CorporAte GovernAnCe Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 25 Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Report and the Group and Company financial statements in responsible for preparing a Business review, Directors accordance with applicable law and regulations.
report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and regulations.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group The directors are responsible for the maintenance and financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by integrity of the corporate and financial information included the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing parent company financial statements in accordance with the preparation and dissemination of financial statements UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors, all of whom are shown on page 20, confirm The Group financial statements are required by law and that to the best of their knowledge: IFRS, as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial the financial statements, prepared in accordance with position and performance of the Group.
The Companies Act the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position references in the relevant part of that Act to financial and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings statements giving a true and fair view are references to their included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and achieving a fair presentation.
the Directors report includes a fair review of the The parent company financial statements are required by development and performance of the business and law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the position of the issuer and the undertakings included parent company.
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with In preparing each of the Group and Company financial a description of the principal risks and uncertainties statements, the directors are required to: they face.
sel ect suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the Board mak e judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: f or the Group financial statements, state whether they Brian Taylorson have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted Finance Director by the EU: 24 February 2009 f or the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and pr epare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
