 4 12 08 16:08 Page 114 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the that Mr D O Maloney, having being appointed as a Company to be held on Thursday, 22 January 2009 director since the last annual general meeting, must is set out on pages 110 to 113 of the annual report stand for reappointment.
Biographical information for and accounts.
The following notes provide an Mr H V Reid and Mr D O Maloney is shown on pages 7 explanation as to why the resolutions set out in and 8 of the annual report and accounts.
Details of the notice are to be put to shareholders.
why the Board believes they should be reappointed are included in the directors report in the annual Resolutions 1 to 8 are ordinary resolutions.
These report and accounts, starting at page 9. resolutions will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast for or against are in favour.
Resolution 6 Auditors appointment The Companies Act 2006 requires that auditors be Resolution 1 Laying of Accounts appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 laid, to hold office until the next such meeting.
The the 1985 Act to present to the shareholders of the resolution seeks shareholder approval for the Company at a general meeting the reports of the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit directors and auditors, and the audited accounts of the Committee keeps under review the independence and Company, for the year ended 30 September 2008.
The objectivity of the external auditors, further information on report of the directors and the audited accounts have which can be found in the annual report and accounts on been approved by the directors, and the report of the page 19.
After considering relevant information, the Audit auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a Committee recommended to the Board of directors that copy of each of these documents may be found in the Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed.
annual report and accounts, starting at page 9.
Resolution 7 Auditors remuneration Resolution 2 Remuneration Report This resolution gives the directors the authority to The 1985 Act requires the Company to seek determine the remuneration of the auditors for the shareholder approval for the Directors Remuneration audit work to be carried out by them in the next Report at the general meeting before which the financial year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to Companys annual accounts are laid.
The Directors the auditors for the next financial year will be Remuneration Report is included in the annual report disclosed in the next audited accounts of the and accounts, starting at page 24.
against the report the directors will still be paid, but the Remuneration Committee will reconsider its Resolution 8 Authority to the directors to policy.
allot shares Under the 1985 Act the directors may only allot Resolution 3 Declaration of a Final Dividend shares if authorised by shareholders to do so.
If An interim dividend of 5.8 pence net has already passed, this resolution will authorise the directors to been paid in respect of the 2007 2008 financial year.
allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate The directors are recommending a final dividend of nominal value of 4,216,056.98 up to 168,642,279 10.4 pence net per ordinary share of 2 pence, new ordinary shares of 2 pence each, which is equal payable on 26 January 2009 to holders on the register to approximately one-third 33.33% of the issued as at 6.00 p. m. on 5 January 2009.
The final dividend share capital of the Company excluding treasury will not be paid without shareholder approval and its shares as at 2 December 2008, being the latest amount may not exceed the amount recommended by practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
The authority will expire 15 months after the date of passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the Resolutions 4 and 5 Reappointment of conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Mr H V Reid and Mr D O Maloney Company in 2010.
The Companys articles of association require that any director who was not appointed or reappointed at Passing this resolution will continue the directors either of the last two annual general meetings before flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, this meeting must retire, although they may offer when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
Accordingly, Mr H V directors currently have no intention of issuing new Reid is retiring and seeking reappointment.
addition, the Companys articles of association provide 114 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 15809 04 12 2008 Proof 6 158  4 12 08 16:08 Page 115 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting As at 2 December 2008, the latest practicable date a minimum amount excluding expenses of 2 pence prior to the publication of the notice, the Company per ordinary share and a maximum amount excluding had 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 pence each in expenses of the higher of: i 5% over the average of issue and held 50,000,000 treasury shares, which is the previous five days middle market prices: and ii equal to approximately 9.88% of the issued share the higher of the price of the last independent trade capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as and the highest current independent bid on the at that date.
trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
This authority will only be exercised if market conditions Resolutions 9 and 10 are special resolutions.
make it advantageous to do so.
These resolutions will be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast for or against are in favour.
The directors present intention is that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will be cancelled Resolution 9 Disapplication of statutory preimmediately on purchase.
Alternatively, the shares emption rights may be held in treasury provided any treasury shares If the Company issues new shares for cash it must first held do not exceed 10% of the Companys issued offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to share capital, sold for cash or provided Listing Rule their current holdings, in compliance with their requirements are met transferred to an employee statutory pre-emption rights.
If passed, this resolution share scheme.
The effect of any cancellation would be will authorise the directors to modify these rights to to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that purposes, while held in treasury, shares are treated as may arise on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or if they have been cancelled for example, they carry issue.
no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
The The resolution also seeks shareholder authority to issue directors will only make purchases under this a limited number of shares for cash and or sell treasury authority whether or not under the rolling share buyshares without offering them to shareholders first.
The back programme if they believe that to do so would authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of up to result in an increased earnings per share and would be 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share in the interests of shareholders generally.
capital of the Company as at 2 December 2008, the As at 2 December 2008, the latest practicable date latest practicable date prior to the publication of the prior to the publication of the notice, options were notice up to 27,798,871 new ordinary shares of 2 outstanding over 7,883,813 ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
The resolution complies with investor pence each in the Company, representing protection guidelines, which limit any issue to 5% of approximately 1.56% of the issued share capital of the issued share capital in any one year.
The authority will Company excluding treasury shares at that date.
If expire at the same time as the authority to allot shares the proposed market purchase authority were used in given pursuant to resolution 8. full, shares over which options were outstanding The directors consider this authority necessary in order would, as at that date, represent approximately 1.83% to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as of the Companys issued share capital excluding they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in the treasury shares.
Resolution 10 Purchase of own shares by the Company If passed this resolution will grant the Company authority for a period of up to 15 months after the date of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares in the market.
The resolution limits the number of shares that may be purchased to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 2 December 2008, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice.
The price per ordinary share that the Company may pay is set at Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 115 15809 04 12 2008 Proof 6  4 12 08 16:08 Page 116 116 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 15809 04 12 2008 Proof 6 15809ENTERPRI CVRS:8mm spine 5 12 08 08:53 Page 2 More award-winning Enterprise licensees were recognised during the year for the quality of their businesses and their outstanding entrepreneurial skills: The Engineer ENGINEER, BRIGHTON Canbury Arms INN AT WEST END, SURREY Winner Ladbrokes Racing Pub of the Year Morning Advertiser Great British Pub Awards 2008 2007 CANBURY ARMS, KINGSTON UPON THAMES Winner Best UK Gastropub The role of pub and licensee at the heart of the Cutter Inn South London Business Awards 2007 The Inn at West End has been local community couldnt be better exemplified Winner Best New Business transformed into a highly than by Phil and Bev Reeves at the Engineer.
As Father and son duo Alan and Michael Pearson arrived at successful gastropub by Gerry and well as running a calendar of events to raise the Canbury Arms in March 2005 and have quickly Ann Price.
Their emphasis on money for local charities, Phil and a group of his established the Canbury Club as a service to the local exceptional standards and local customers run a racing syndicate and now have a sourcing has ensured that the pub community.
Members enjoy club discounts, earning racehorse in training.
has been recognised in the reward points and a variety of other benefits in return for Michelin Blue and Red Guides, as their loyalty to the pub.
well as the Good Pub Guide.
Inn at West End MARK CROSS INN, EAST SUSSEX Morning Advertiser Great British Contents Pub Awards 2008 CUTTER INN, ELY Winner Best Food Pub Morning Advertiser Great in the South East British Pub Awards 2008 Following a 12-week Winner Best Tenanted Financial Highlights 1 refurbishment, the Mark Cross is pub in East Anglia Chairmans Statement 2 now a light, spacious, Winner Best Pub Food Chief Executives Review incorporating the Business Review 3 comfortable pub with an informal in East Anglia Directors and Advisers 7 bar and several different dining Jo Drain and Steve Haslam may be relatively new to the licensed trade, Directors Report 9 but their vision and innovation at the Cutter has brought them success areas.
Every dish on the menu is Corporate Governance 16 and widespread recognition.
Their next move is to install a pontoon over prepared and cooked to order, the River Ouse, which runs alongside the pub, to add alfresco dining.
using the freshest local Directors Remuneration Report 24 Mark Cross Inn ingredients.
Group Income Statement 34 Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 35 Group Balance Sheet 36 Group Cash Flow Statement 37 The Monkton Notes to the Group Accounts 38 Group Audit Report 76 Five Year Record 78 Enterprise Inns plc Company Accounts 79 Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 80 Balance Sheet 81 Cash Flow Statement 82 Notes to the Company Accounts 83 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 105 Company Audit Report 106 Analysis of Shareholders 108 Financial Calendar 108 The Fox Inn Shareholder Information 109 THE MONKTON, WEST MONKTON, SOMERSET Notice of Annual General Meeting 110 THE FOX INN, BOGNOR REGIS Morning Advertiser Great British Pub Awards 2008 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of AGM 114 Winner Tenanted Leased Pub of the Year Morning Advertiser Great British Pub Awards 2008 Winner Best UK Pub Garden: Winner Best Pub in the South East Almost 2 years ago, Eddie Street and Guy Arnold recognised the Pictures In the two years since Andy and Alison Hirons took over the Fox, theyve opportunity to transform this 1970s time-warp into the award-winning front cover back cover created a fabulous outdoor space for all ages, incorporating landscaped pub it is today, featuring a continually changing menu of freshly prepared, Rock Inn Hotel, Halifax Rock Inn Hotel, Halifax locally sourced dishes.
According to a recent customer survey, areas, a large covered decked area with heating and lighting, a childrens 92% of customers are delighted with their experience.
playground and a tasteful shelter for smokers, whilst the imaginative Black Bear, Clifton Albert Hotel, Llandudno spacing of the tables in the garden ensures privacy for diners.
Goodbarns Yard, Boston Dog and Crook, Brambridge Kaye Arms, Grange Moor The text pages of this document are printed on paper made from 75% recycled fibre.
