 4 12 08 16:08 Page 109 Shareholder Information Shareholder Enquiries Dividend Payments Dividends can be paid direct to UK bank or building society accounts using the BACS system so that your dividend can be paid into your account on the same day the Company makes payment.
A tax voucher will still be provided and sent to Shareholders by post.
The Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Shareholders who wish to arrange direct payment Services PLC, keep the Companys register of using this method should telephone the Registrars on Shareholders up to date, distribute statutory 0870 889 4080 to request a dividend mandate form.
documents and administer the payment of dividends.
You can also register your bank account online by If you have a query regarding your shareholding selecting Bank Instructions Update at please contact them direct by using the dedicated www-uk.
com investor telephone enquiry line 0870 889 4080.
You can also use the Registrars website to check your shareholding and maintain your records.
Details can be found at www-uk.
com investor Electronic Communications The Company has introduced innovative ways of communicating with Shareholders electronically via eTree, an environmental incentive programme.
For every shareholder who signs up to receive electronic communications we will donate 1 to the Woodland Trust Tree for All campaign, a national tree planting and education programme, working with schools and communities, which aims to plant 12 million trees over the next five years.
For details and to register to receive future communications electronically, please visit www.
com enterpriseinns Share Dealing Service The Registrars also offer a share dealing service which allows you to buy and sell the Companys shares if you are a UK resident.
You can deal in your shares on the Internet or by telephone.
com investor or call 0870 703 0084 between 8.00 a. m. and 4.30 p. m. Monday to Friday, for more information about this service and details of the rates.
