 4 12 08 16:08 Page 110 Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice is important and requires your of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt the Annual General Meeting of the Company in about the action you should take, you should 2010, except that the Company may before such immediately consult your stockbroker, bank expiry make an offer or agreement which would or manager, solicitor, accountant or other might require relevant securities to be allotted independent financial adviser duly authorised after such expiry and the directors may allot under the Financial Services and Markets relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or Act 2000. agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
The 2009 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns plc the Company will be held at the Special Resolutions offices of the Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. resolutions, which will be proposed as special on 22 January 2009 for the following purposes: resolutions: Ordinary Resolutions 9.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 8, the To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following directors be and are empowered pursuant to resolutions, which will be proposed as ordinary section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot resolutions: equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of that Act for cash pursuant to the general authority 1.
To receive the directors report and the audited conferred on them by resolution 8 and or to sell accounts for the year ended 30 September 2008 equity securities held as treasury shares for cash and the auditors report on the accounts.
pursuant to section 162D of that Act, in each case 2.
To approve the directors remuneration report for as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any the year ended 30 September 2008. such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 10.4 pence per a any such allotment and or sale of equity ordinary share of the Company for the year ended securities in connection with an issue or offer 30 September 2008, which shall be payable to by way of rights or other pre-emptive issue or shareholders who are on the register of members offer, open for acceptance for a period fixed by as at the close of business on 5 January 2009. the directors, to holders of ordinary shares 4.
To reappoint Mr H V Reid as a director.
other than the Company on the register on any record date fixed by the directors in 5.
To reappoint Mr D O Maloney as a director.
proportion as nearly as may be to the 6.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the respective number of ordinary shares deemed Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the to be held by them, subject to such exclusions next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to 7.
To authorise the directors to determine Ernst & fractional entitlements, legal or practical Young LLPs remuneration as auditors of the problems arising in any overseas territory, the Company.
requirements of any regulatory body or stock 8.
THAT the directors be generally and exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and unconditionally authorised in substitution for all b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise subsisting authorities to the extent unused to than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, of exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity securities for cash having, in the case of relevant securities within the meaning of section relevant shares as defined in section 94 5 of 80 2 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an that Act, an aggregate nominal value, or, in aggregate nominal amount of 4,216,056.98.
This the case of other equity securities, giving the authority shall expire unless previously varied, right to subscribe for or convert into relevant revoked or renewed by the Company in general shares having an aggregate nominal value, not meeting 15 months after the date of the passing 110 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 15809 04 12 2008 Proof 6 158  4 12 08 16:08 Page 111 Notice of Annual General Meeting exceeding in aggregate the sum of completed wholly or partly after such expiry and 694,971.78. purchase ordinary shares in accordance with such contract as if the authority conferred by this This authority shall expire, unless previously resolution had not expired.
renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, at such time as the general The directors believe that the proposals in authority conferred on the directors by resolution 8 resolutions 1 to 10 are in the best interests of expires, except that the Company may before such shareholders as a whole and they unanimously expiry make an offer or agreement which would or recommend that you vote in favour of all the might require equity securities to be allotted or resolutions.
equity securities held as treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity securities held as On behalf of the Board treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is generally and Company Secretary unconditionally authorised to make market 4 December 2008 purchases as defined in section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 2 Registered office: pence each provided that: 3 Monkspath Hall Road i the maximum number of ordinary shares that Solihull may be acquired is 75,846,017: West Midlands B90 4SJ ii the minimum price per ordinary share that may be paid for any such share excluding expenses is 2 pence: and Registered in England and Wales No.
2562808 iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall not be more than the higher of: A 105% of the average of the market values of such ordinary shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the purchase is made: and B that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation EC 2273 2003.
This authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010, except that the Company may, at any time before the expiry of this authority, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares which would or might be Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 111 15809 04 12 2008 Proof 6  4 12 08 16:08 Page 112 Notice of Annual General Meeting 4.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a Notes 1.
A shareholder of the Company who is entitled to person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom and vote instead of him.
A proxy does not need to be a shareholder of the Company.
You may appoint he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
To right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give appoint more than one proxy, you will need to complete a separate proxy form in relation to each instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
To request additional proxy forms, please contact the Companys Registrar.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in need to state clearly on each proxy form the relation to the appointment of proxies in number of shares in relation to which the proxy is paragraphs 1 to 3 above does not apply to appointed.
A failure to specify the number of Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these shares each proxy appointment relates to or paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders specifying a number of shares in excess of those of the Company.
held by the member will result in the proxy appointment being invalid.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy 2.
A personalised form of proxy for use in connection appointment service may do so for the Annual with the Annual General Meeting is enclosed with General Meeting and any adjournment s of the the document of which this notice forms part.
If meeting by using the procedures described in the you do not have a personalised form of proxy and CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other believe that you should, please contact the CREST sponsored members and those CREST Companys registrars, Computershare Investor members who have appointed any voting service Services PLC, on 0870 889 4080 or at provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or Computershare Investor Services PLC, The voting service provider s, who will be able to take Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY.
the appropriate action on their behalf.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting In order for a proxy appointment or instruction at the Annual General Meeting.
Addresses made using the CREST service to be valid, the including electronic addresses in this document appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy are included strictly for the purposes specified and Instruction must be properly authenticated in not for any other purpose.
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information 3.
To appoint a proxy or proxies shareholders must required for such instructions, as described in the complete: a a form of proxy, sign it and return it, CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of together with the power of attorney or other whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy authority if any under which it is signed, or a or an amendment to the instruction given to a notarially certified copy of such authority, to the previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be Companys registrars, Computershare Investor valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Companys agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time for Bristol, BS99 6ZY: or b a CREST Proxy receipt of proxy appointments set out in paragraph Instruction as set out in paragraph 6 below : 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will or c an online proxy appointment at be taken to be the time as determined by the www.
com you will need to timestamp applied to the message by the CREST enter the Control Number, together with your Applications Host from which the Companys unique PIN and Shareholder Reference Number agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to printed on your personalised form of proxy, in CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After each case so that it is received no later than this time any change of instructions to proxies 11.00 a. m. on 20 January 2009.
112 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 15809 04 12 2008 Proof 6 158  4 12 08 16:08 Page 113 Notice of Annual General Meeting appointed through CREST should be members in respect of the joint holding the firstcommunicated to the appointee through other named being the most senior.
Copies of the directors service contracts or letters CREST members and, where applicable, their of appointment are available for inspection at the CREST sponsors or voting service providers should Companys registered office during normal note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not business hours on any weekday excluding make available special procedures in CREST for Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays until the any particular messages.
Normal system timings end of the Annual General Meeting.
and limitations will therefore apply in relation to 10.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the ordinary shares in the Company, please forward responsibility of the CREST member concerned to this document to the purchaser or transferee or to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal the stockbroker, bank or other person through member or sponsored member or has appointed whom the sale or transfer was effected for any voting service provider s, to procure that his transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as is necessary to ensure that a 11.
As at 9.00 a. m. on 2 December 2008, the message is transmitted by means of the CREST Companys issued share capital comprised system by any particular time.
In this connection, 555,977,435 ordinary shares of 2 pence each.
CREST members and, where applicable, their Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at CREST sponsors or voting service providers are a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, referred, in particular, to those sections of the the total number of voting rights in the Company CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of as at 9.00 a. m. on 2 December 2008 is the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy 12.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate Instruction in the circumstances set out in representatives at the meeting, arrangements will regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities be put in place at the meeting so that i if a Regulations 2001. corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to 7.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives all of the other corporate representatives for that notice that only those shareholders included in the shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. corporate representatives will give voting on 20 January 2009 or, if the meeting is directions to the chairman and the chairman will adjourned, in the register of members at 6.00 p. m. vote or withhold a vote as corporate on the day which is two days before the day of any representative in accordance with those directions: adjourned meeting, will be entitled to attend and and ii if more than one corporate representative to vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect for the same corporate shareholder attends the of the number of shares registered in their names meeting but the corporate shareholder has not at that time.
Changes to entries on the share appointed the chairman of the meeting as its register after 6.00 p. m. on 20 January 2009 or, if corporate representative, a designated corporate the meeting is adjourned, in the register of representative will be nominated, from those members at 6.00 p. m. on the day which is two corporate representatives who attend, who will days before the day of any adjourned meeting, will vote on a poll and the other corporate be disregarded in determining the rights of any representatives will give voting directions to that person to attend or vote at the Annual General designated corporate representative.
shareholders are referred to the guidance issued 8.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, Administrators on proxies and corporate only the appointment submitted by the most representatives www.
uk for further details senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample determined by the order in which the names of the form of appointment letter if the chairman is being joint holders appear in the Companys register of appointed as described in i above.
