67 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Financial Statements Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation the revised IFRS 3 standard when assessing the accounting for The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and any potential future acquisitions.
approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU in This standard has not yet been endorsed for use within the EU.
accordance with EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its individual Amendment to IFRS 2: Share based payments effective for annual company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP : these are presented on pages 95 to 98.
The definition of vesting conditions in the standard has been amended to clarify that vesting conditions are limited to service The financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis conditions and performance conditions.
Conditions other than except for derivatives which are stated at fair value.
service or performance conditions are considered to be nonvesting.
The Group does not expect this amendment to have a The preparation of financial statements that conform with adopted significant impact on the accounting for existing and future share IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the option schemes.
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and For the purposes of these financial statements Filtrona or the expense during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are Group means Filtrona plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis the statement of which can be found on The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an page 62. ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and future periods b Basis of consolidation if relevant.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by Filtrona.
Control exists when The accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial Filtrona has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial statements are detailed below.
These policies have been and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain economic consistently applied to all periods presented.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from the date that control The following standard was adopted by the Group during the year: commences until the date that control ceases.
IFRIC 14: IAS 19: The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation funding requirements and their interactions effective for annual Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 income and expense arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the financial statements.
This clarifies the requirements of IAS 19: Employee Benefits IAS 19 revised paragraph 58, which limits the measurement of a c Foreign currency defined benefit asset to the present value of any economic Items included in the financial statements of the Groups benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions subsidiaries are measured using the primary currency in which in future contributions to the plan plus unrecognised net actuarial the entity operates functional currency.
The consolidated financial losses and past service cost.
The Group, together with its statements are prepared in sterling functional currency of parent actuaries, has considered the implication of this when measuring company.
its retirement benefit obligation for the year ended 31 December 2008 and have concluded that it has no impact.
i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of The following standards or interpretations have not yet been exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and adopted by the Group: liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the exchange rate ruling at IFRS 8: Operating segments effective for annual periods that date and recognised in the income statement unless hedge beginning on or after 1 January 2009 accounting criteria apply see policy for derivatives.
This standard contains requirements for the disclosure of ii Financial statements of foreign operations information about an entitys operating segments and also about The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill the entitys products and services, the geographical areas in which and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated it operates and its major customers.
The standard is concerned at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The only with disclosure and replaces IAS 14: Segment reporting.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at Group is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its average exchange rates.
iii Net investment in foreign operations IFRS 3 2008 : Business combinations IFRS 3 effective for Exchange differences on retranslation at the closing rate of the annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009 opening balances of overseas entities are taken to reserves, as are exchange differences arising on related foreign currency This standard and its amendments widen the scope of IFRS 3 borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, 2004 and impact the way that business combinations are to the extent that they are effective.
Other exchange differences accounted for including the treatment of contingent consideration are taken to the income statement.
Differences arising prior to and transaction costs.
The Group will consider the implication of 1 January 2004 are included in retained earnings.
68 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued d Derivatives represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and fair In accordance with IAS 39: Financial instruments: recognition value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the and measurement IAS 39, derivatives are measured initially acquiree.
For acquisitions made before 1 January 2004, goodwill at fair value.
The subsequent measurement depends on the is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the classification of the derivative.
Interest bearing loans and amount previously recorded under UK GAAP.
borrowings and other financial liabilities excluding derivatives are held at amortised cost, unless they are included in a hedge ii Research and development accounting relationship.
See note 15 for separate disclosure of Research costs are expensed to the income statement in the year hedge types.
in which they are incurred.
i Cash flow hedges Development costs relating to new products are capitalised if Where a derivative is designated as a hedging instrument in a cash the new product is technically and commercially feasible.
Other flow hedge the change in fair value is recognised in equity to the development costs are recognised in the income statement and extent that it is effective and any ineffective portion is recognised in expensed as incurred.
Where the underlying transaction results in a financial asset, accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the iii Other intangible assets income statement in the same period as the hedged item affects Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are profit or loss.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset recognised on acquisition and recorded at fair value.
These the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in equity principally relate to customer relationships which are valued using are included in the initial carrying value of the asset.
discounted cash flows based on historical customer attrition rates.
Amortisation is expensed in the income statement on a straightii Fair value hedges line basis over the estimated useful economic life.
Where a derivative is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a monetary asset or liability, any gain or loss on i Impairment the derivative is recognised in the income statement.
All assets, except intangible assets, deferred tax assets and inventories, are reviewed annually to determine whether there is iii Hedges of net investment in foreign operations any indication of impairment.
Goodwill and intangible assets with The gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net investment in indefinite lives are tested annually.
If an indication of impairment a foreign operation that is deemed effective is recognised in equity.
exists the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount e Property, plant and equipment of a non-financial asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated recoverable amount, being the greater of value in use and net depreciation and impairment losses.
Previously revalued selling price, and is recognised in the income statement.
Value in properties were treated as being held at deemed cost upon use is estimated based on future cash flows discounted using a transition to adopted IFRS.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment or other j Inventories assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out separate items.
The carrying values of property, plant and basis and net realisable value.
For work-in-progress and finished equipment and other assets are periodically reviewed for goods, cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour cost impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate and overheads.
that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
k Cash and cash equivalents f Depreciation Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and fixed Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their term investments whose maturities are three months or less from estimated remaining useful lives on a straight-line basis at the the date of acquisition.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand form following annual rates: an integral part of Filtronas cash management and are included as part of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
Freehold land Not depreciated Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter l Loans and borrowings Plant and machinery 720% Loans and borrowings are initially measured at cost which is Fixtures, fittings and equipment 1033% equal to fair value at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Any The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
the settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
g Leases Where Filtrona has substantially all the risks and rewards of m Trade and other receivables ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a The fair value of trade and other receivables is estimated as the finance lease.
All other leases are treated as operating leases and present value of future cash flows less impairment losses.
the rentals expensed to the income statement on a straight line basis.
Lease incentives are amortised in the income statement n Trade and other payables over the life of the lease.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
h Intangible assets i Goodwill o Income tax Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Income tax in the income statement comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement Acquisitions are accounted for using the purchase method.
For except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in equity.
acquisitions that have occurred since 1 January 2004 goodwill 69 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for liabilities is included within finance expense and the expected return the year using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the on scheme assets is included within finance income.
balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in prior years.
t Share-based payments Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, Filtrona operates equity-settled, share-based incentive plans.
providing for temporary differences arising between the tax bases A charge is made in the income statement based on the fair and the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial value of options using the Black-Scholes, Monte Carlo or binomial statements.
The following temporary differences are not provided valuation models as appropriate with a corresponding increase in for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable the period between grant and vesting date of the options.
The profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the amount recognised as an expense will be adjusted to reflect the extent that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred actual number of share options that vest with the exception of tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to apply when options that fail to vest because market-based conditions are the related deferred tax asset or liability is settled.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is u One-off items in the consolidated income statement probable that future taxable profit will be available against which i Exceptional acquisition fees the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the During the fourth quarter of 2008, Filtrona withdrew from a extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will significant potential acquisition at an advanced stage and had to be realised.
expense 1.3m of professional adviser fees which would otherwise have been treated as part of the consideration for the acquisition.
p Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income ii Restructuring costs statement when the significant risks and rewards of ownership The restructuring of Filtronas operations in 2007 gave rise to have been transferred to the buyer.
No revenue is recognised if considerable incremental one-off costs.
The most significant there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the component of these restructuring costs was redundancy consideration due, associated expenses or the possible return payments.
Filtrona views significant restructuring costs as an of goods.
expense associated with investment in the future performance of the business and not part of the trading performance.
q Finance income and expense Finance income and expense is recognised in the income These costs had a material impact on the absolute amount of, and statement as it accrues.
trend in, Filtronas operating profit and operating margin.
Therefore they were shown as a separate line item within operating profit on r Segment reporting the face of the income statement in order for the reader to obtain a A segment is a distinguishable component of Filtrona that is proper understanding of the financial information.
engaged in providing products business segment, or in providing products within a particular economic environment geographic v Investment in own shares segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different The shares held in the Filtrona Employee Benefit Trust for the from those of other segments.
purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of share option plans are treated as belonging to the Company and are deducted from its For operational and financial reporting purposes, Filtrona identifies retained earnings.
The cost of shares held directly treasury two business segments which are characterised by shared shares is also deducted from retained earnings.
technology and raw material inputs.
w Provisions s Pensions A provision is recognised when there is a probable legal or i Defined contribution schemes constructive obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension estimate can be made of the outflow of economic resources that schemes are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
will be required to settle the obligation.
ii Defined benefit schemes x Net debt The significant pension schemes in Europe and the US have been Net debt is defined as cash and cash equivalents, net of interest accounted for on a defined benefit basis.
The net obligations in respect of defined benefit pension schemes y Dividends are calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return are declared.
for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any z Discontinued operations scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the In 2007 Filtrona disposed of Globalpack and this was classified as balance sheet date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current dates approximating to the terms of Filtronas obligations.
The assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
The profit after calculation is performed by a qualified independent actuary using tax of Globalpack, including profit on disposal, was disclosed as the projected unit credit method.
a single line item in the income statement and similarly the cash flows were also disclosed as a single line item in each of the Actuarial gains and losses that have arisen are recognised in full in categories in the statement of cash flows.
the statement of recognised income and expense.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses on settlement and curtailments.
The expected increase in the present value of scheme
