Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
74 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC the Company was incorporated and registered under the laws of England and Wales on 8 December 2006.
The address of the Companys registered office is 16 St. Jamess Street, London, SW1A 1ER, United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2008 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures.
The accounting policies used in preparing these consolidated financial statements financial statements are described below and are based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU, the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority FSA and Article 4 of the European Union IAS Regulation.
These standards are subject to interpretations issued from time to time by the International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC.
These consolidated financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also necessitates management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in note 2.
The financial statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Group has made certain presentational changes to further improve comparability of its results and certain comparative amounts have been reclassified accordingly.
New accounting policies and pronouncements and the effects of these policies have been outlined in note 3. b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are those companies and other entities in which the Group, directly or indirectly, has an interest of more than one half of the voting rights or otherwise has power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or presently convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group acquisition date and are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
c Joint ventures Joint ventures are all entities over which the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
The Group has elected to use the equity method to account for interests in jointly controlled entities, which are disclosed as joint ventures in the financial statement and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
If an asset is sold at a loss and the loss provides evidence of impairment, then the full amount of the loss is recognised.
d Minority interests Minority interests are that part of the net results and of the net assets, including the fair value adjustments, which are attributable to interests which are not owned, directly or indirectly, by the parent.
Minority interests form a separate component of the Groups equity.
The Group has adopted the parent company method and applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Gains or losses arising from disposals of minority interests are recorded in the income statement.
Goodwill arising from purchases of minority interests is recorded on the balance sheet.
The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the book value of the minority interest represents goodwill.
e Functional and presentational currency All amounts in these financial statements are presented in millions of US$, unless otherwise stated.
The functional currency of the significant operating entities is either the Kazakhstani tenge KZT or the Russian rouble RUB, whilst for the Sales and Marketing entities it is the US dollar US$.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
The functional currency for the Company is the US$.
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 75 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Kazakhstani tenge, expressed in Kazakhstani tenge per US$1.00.
Rate Period Period end Average Year ended 31 December 2008 120.77 120.30 Year ended 31 December 2007 120.30 122.55 The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Russian rouble, expressed in Russian roubles per US$1.00.
Rate Period Period end Average Year ended 31 December 2008 29.38 24.86 f Foreign currency translation Transactions in currencies other than the local functional currency are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement.
g Translation from functional to presentational currency The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate at the date of acquisition.
When a subsidiary is disposed of through sale, liquidation, repayment of share capital or abandonment of all, or part of, that entity, the exchange differences deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement.
h Revenue recognition A significant portion of production is sold under the contract of sale.
Revenue is only recognised on individual shipments when persuasive evidence exists that the following criteria are satisfied: the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer.
If it is arranged that the goods are transported to a specified location, revenue is recognised when the goods are passed to the customer at the destination point.
The revenue from sales of many products is subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of the quantity quality of the product.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of quantity quality of the product is recorded in revenue once they have been determined: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold has been retained: the amount of revenue and respective costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably: and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group.
Revenues from sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to the stage of completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual services provided, as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Revenues are shown net of VAT and discounts.
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
When the fair value of goods received in a barter transaction cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or service given up.
i Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and gains and income on investment and trading securities.
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest expense from the unwinding of discount on provisions for asset retirement obligations and losses on the revaluation and disposal of investments designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Finance income and costs include foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to loans receivable, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and financial assets.
All interest and other costs incurred in connection with borrowings are expensed as incurred as part of financial expenses unless incurred on borrowings to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment in which case they are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
Interest income and expenses are recognised on a time proportion basis, using the effective interest method.
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
76 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued j Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Kazakhstani excess profits tax, as defined in the note below, is treated as an income tax and forms part of the income tax expense.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred assets to be utilised.
Deferred excess profits tax is calculated with respect to temporary differences arising on assets allocated to contracts for subsurface use at the expected rate of excess profits tax to be paid under the contract.
k Excess profits tax Excess profits tax is payable under subsurface use contracts where the internal rate of return during the year is in excess of 20%.
Liability for excess profits tax is recorded in accordance with the Groups accounting policies for current and deferred tax and based on managements understanding of the provisions of the subsurface use contracts and tax regulations.
Where the Groups operations, within one production cycle, along with operations conducted under a subsurface use contract subsurface use operations include also other operations eg processing of products derived from subsurface use operations, for the purpose of the excess profits tax calculation, revenue resulted from the internal transfer of a product from the subsurface use operations to such other operations is assumed to be equal to the cost of extraction of the product.
In all other cases, for the purposes of the excess profits tax calculation, revenue from external sales of a product from subsurface use operations is taken at the price at which the product was sold.
l Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Dividends are disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or when declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
m Finance leases and hire purchase commitments Finance leases, which transfer to the Group all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased items, are capitalised at the inception of the lease.
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The capital elements, net of finance charges, of future obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included as currentor long-term payables in the balance sheet, as appropriate.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the income statement.
Capitalised lease assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the asset.
n Operating leases Where the Group is a lessee in a lease which does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership from the lessor to the Group, the total lease payments, including those on expected termination, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
For operating leases relating to the use of mining facilities, the rental expense is recognised in the cost of sales.
For operating leases relating to the use of administrative facilities, the rental expense is recognised in the selling, general and administrative expense in the income statement.
Where the Group is a lessor under an operating lease, the lease payments receivable are recognised as rental income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
o Exploration and evaluation Exploration and evaluation expenditure related to an area of interest are written off as incurred.
At the time that it is considered probable that future costs will be recovered through successful development and exploitation of the area of interest, or alternatively through its sale, they are carried forward as an asset in the balance sheet and are included within mining assets.
Capitalised costs include costs directly related to exploration and evaluation activities in the relevant area of interest.
Selling, general and administrative costs are allocated to an exploration or evaluation asset only to the extent that those costs can be related directly to operational activities in the relevant area of interest.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is assessed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
Identifiable exploration assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised as assets at their fair value, as part of a business combination.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 77 1.
Principal accounting policies continued p Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
Depreciation is recorded over the useful life of the asset, or over the expected remaining life of the mine if shorter, as follows: Buildings and mining constructions: 20 to 50 years on a straight-line basis.
Mining assets: on a units of production basis.
Plant and equipment: 6 to 15 years on a straight-line basis.
Motor vehicles: 5 to 15 years on a straight-line basis.
Estimates of residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually, and any change in estimate is taken into account in the determination of future depreciation charges.
The individual significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment components, whose useful lives are different from the useful life of the asset as a whole, are depreciated individually, applying depreciation rates reflecting their anticipated useful lives.
The cost of replacing major parts or components of property, plant and equipment items is capitalised and the replaced part is retired.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Specialised spare parts and servicing equipment with a significant initial value and a useful life of more than one year are recognised as items of property, plant and equipment.
Other spare parts and servicing-related equipment are recognised as inventories and accounted for in the income statement on utilisation.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is retired.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy below.
i Mining assets Once a project has been established as commercially viable, expenditure is capitalised under mining assets together with amounts transferred from exploration and evaluation.
Mining assets include expenditure incurred to establish or expand productive capacity, costs to conduct mining construction and mining capital works, as well as costs arising from mining preparation works during the development or mine reconstruction phase.
Development expenditure incurred by or on behalf of the Group is accumulated separately for each area of interest in which economically recoverable resources have been identified.
Such expenditure comprises costs directly attributable to the construction of a mine and the related infrastructure, including the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
When further development expenditure is incurred in respect of a mining asset after the commencement of production, such expenditure is carried forward as part of mining assets when it is probable that additional future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group.
Otherwise such expenditure is recognised as a cost of production.
Once a project has been fully commissioned, depreciation is charged using the units of production method, based on proved and probable reserves, with separate calculations being made for each area of interest.
The units of production basis results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of proved and probable reserves.
Mining assets are included within the category Buildings and mining construction of property, plant and equipment.
ii Assets under construction Assets under construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
Self-constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation commences on the earlier of the date when the assets are brought into service or the assets are available for use.
iii Stripping costs Stripping costs comprise the removal of overburden and other waste products from a mine.
Stripping costs incurred in the development of mines and open pits before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing the mines and open pits, and depreciated using the unit of production method over the lives of the mines or open pits.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase of operations are expensed as a production cost and included within the cost of inventory.
78 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued q Impairment The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and all other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit and fair value less costs to sell the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset or cash generating unit in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Where there is no binding sale agreement or active market, fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit in an arms length transaction.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The estimates used for impairment reviews are based on detailed mine plans and operating budgets, modified as appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Future cash flows are based on: estimates of the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction: future production levels: future commodity prices assuming the current market prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the long-term average price, generally over a period of three to five years : and future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, close down, restoration and environmental clean up.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This reversal is recognised in the income statement and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
r Business combinations and goodwill The purchase method of accounting is used to account for business combinations.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets given up, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The date of exchange is the acquisition date where a business combination is achieved in a single transaction and is the date of each share purchase where a business combination is achieved in stages by successive share purchases.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree, represents goodwill.
Any excess of the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired over the cost of acquisition excess of acquirers interest or negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are being managed as a combined business.
These groups of cash-generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and these groups are not larger than the Groups reporting segments which are its product groups.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually in accordance with the impairment policy described in the note above.
Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
s Intangible assets Intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised at fair value when the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy described above.
t Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement categories: loans and receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and held-to-maturity financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
i Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are unquoted non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments other than those that the Group intends to sell in the near term.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise loans receivable, trade and other liabilities and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
ii Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 79 1.
Principal accounting policies continued iii Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
iv Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
If the Group were to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-tomaturity financial assets, the whole category would be tainted and reclassified as available-for-sale.
Recognition and measurement Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the relevant settlement date, which is the date that an asset is delivered to or by the Group.
The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is not recognised for assets carried at cost or amortised cost.
The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is recognised in the income statement for financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, loans and receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is provided at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is remeasured at origination at its fair value, which is represented by future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
The difference between the fair value of the loan at origination and its cost fair value of the contribution to the borrower, net of transaction costs represents an origination gain or loss.
The origination gain or loss is recorded in the income statement within finance income costs unless it qualifies for recognition as an asset, liability or a charge to equity in accordance with the substance of the arrangement.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the loans is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income costs using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences on available-for-sale monetary items, are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
The Group derecognises financial assets when: i the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets have otherwise expired: ii the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets: or iii the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but has not retained control.
Control is retained if the counterparty does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose additional restrictions on the sale.
u Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group holds derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts, to hedge its foreign currency exposure in relation to operating costs.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred on the date a derivative contract is entered into.
Derivative financial instruments are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or unrecognised firm commitment fair value hedge : hedges of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Management policy has been to hedge a proportion of foreign exchange risk associated with highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currencies, refer note 34 for details.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement within Net other operating expense.
80 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Amounts accumulated in equity are transferred to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of forward currency contracts hedging export sales is recognised in the income statement within cost of sales.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Movements on derivatives not designated as hedge derivatives are taken to Net other operating expense in the income statement.
Refer notes 33 and 34 for disclosure of derivatives and financial risk management.
v Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost for raw materials is purchase price or extraction cost and for work in progress and finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate proportion of depreciation and overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
w Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, which is the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision from the previous reporting period is recognised in the income statement.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against selling, general and administration expenses in the income statement.
x Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Balances restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in other non-current assets, while balances restricted for more than three months but less than 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in trade and other receivables.
Restricted balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
y Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction cost and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is obtained at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is remeasured at origination to its fair value, which is calculated as future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the borrowings is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income cost using the effective interest method on the asset liability.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after balance sheet date.
z Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as a part of finance costs.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 81 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
aa Asset retirement obligations and other environmental provisions An obligation to incur asset retirement costs occurs when environmental disturbance is caused by exploration, evaluation, development or ongoing production.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular review.
Asset retirement costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided when the obligation to incur such costs arises and are capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
These costs are charged against profits through depreciation of the asset and unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of the discount is included as a financing cost.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning or site rehabilitation of plant and other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset.
ab Employee benefit obligations Defined benefit plans The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees in the Republic of Kazakhstan before, on and after retirement, in accordance with a labour union agreement.
Such benefits are valued consistent with an unfunded defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
There are no post retirement long-term service benefits provided in any other country where the Group operates.
The future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods, is discounted to determine the present value.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on government bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups benefit obligations.
The calculation is performed annually by a qualified, independent actuary.
The expected costs of the benefits associated with one-off retirement payments are accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit post-employment plans.
For defined benefit post-employment plans, the difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the defined liabilities obligations is recognised as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the income statement.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailments or settlements.
Defined contribution plans For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Other post-retirement long-term service benefits The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the completion of a minimum service period.
The expected cost of these benefits is accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for the defined benefit plans.
Payroll expense and related contributions Wages, salaries, and social insurance funds, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the Group.
On behalf of its employees, the Group pays those statutory pension and post-employment benefit amounts prescribed by the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates.
These payments are expensed as incurred.
Share-based bonus awards The Group operated an equity-settled share-based bonus award scheme in respect of the Directors, management, senior employees and professional advisers contribution to the Groups preparations for admission to the London Stock Exchange.
The fair value of the employee services received, measured by reference to the fair value of the shares granted at the grant date less nominal value, is recognised as initial public offering cost in the income statement.
The Group has introduced a separate equity-settled, share-based compensation plan, under which the Group receives services from qualifying employees as consideration for equity instruments.
The employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity-settled payments are measured at fair value and are recognised as expenses, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, due to the employees leaving the Group prior to vesting.
The amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest.
The fair values of equity-settled payments are measured at the dates of grant using a Monte Carlo pricing model.
ac Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
82 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued ad Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
ae Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised at their fair value adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee.
Financial guarantees are recognised when premiums are paid or in the case of premium-free guarantees when the borrower received the money from the financing entity.
When the Group issues premium-free guarantees or guarantees at a premium different from the market premium, the fair value is determined using valuation techniques eg market prices of similar instruments, interest rate differentials, etc.
Losses at initial recognition of financial guarantee liabilities are recognised in the income statement within net other operating expenses.
Financial guarantee liabilities are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the guarantee with the respective income presented within net other operating expenses.
At each balance sheet date, the guarantees are measured at the higher of: i the unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition: and ii the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Ore reserve estimates The Groups ore reserves are based on its best estimate of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the relevant mining properties.
Estimates are developed after taking into account a range of factors including quantities, ore grades, production techniques and recovery rates, forecast commodity prices and production costs.
The Groups estimates are supported by geological studies by independent mining engineering consultants and drilling samples to determine the quantity and grade of each ore body.
Significant judgement is required to generate an estimate based on the geological data available.
Ore reserve estimates are calculated based on the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code which requires the use of reasonable assumptions, including: future production estimates which include proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and committed expansions: expected future commodity prices, based on current market price, forward prices and the Groups assessment of the long-term average price: and future cash costs of production, capital expenditure and rehabilitation obligations.
Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period.
This may impact the Groups financial results.
Such changes in reserves may impact depreciation charges, asset carrying values and asset retirement obligation provisions.
b Life of mines Contracts for subsurface use expire between 2017 and 2041.
Management expects that the subsurface use contracts will be extended at nominal cost until the end of the lives of the related mines.
Any change to this assumption may impact the Groups financial results by affecting depreciation charges, asset carrying values and asset retirement obligations, as these have been recorded on the assumption that the subsurface use contracts will be extended until the end of the mine life.
During 2007, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan confirmed by letter, addressed to the Group, that the Group is entitled to prolong the contracts under the contractual terms and the subsurface use legislation.
If the contracts are not renewed at their current expiry dates, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment existing at the expiry date to be written off at the date of expiry is valued at US$757 million as at 31 December 2008 2007: US$450 million.
c Provision for asset retirement obligations Provision is made for asset retirement obligations when the related environmental disturbance takes place.
Provisions are recognised at the net present value of future expected costs as outlined in note 27.
The provision recognised represents managements best estimate of the costs that will be incurred but significant judgement is required as many of these costs will not crystallise until the end of the life of the mine.
Estimates are reviewed annually and are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Significant changes in environmental legislation, restoration techniques and estimates of contamination will result in changes to provisions from period to period.
The engineering estimates evaluated by management are reviewed annually by independent mining engineering consultants.
The inflation rate currently applied in the calculation is 7.0%8.6% as at 31 December 2008 2007: 8.3% being the estimate of the rate of inflation over the mine lives.
The discount rate currently applied in the calculation is 10.6%11.4% at 31 December 2008 2007: 7.4% being the estimate of the risk-free pre-tax cost of borrowings over the life of mines.
Rehabilitation expenditure is largely expected to take place at the end of the respective mine lives, which varies from 14 to 40 years, with an average, weighted by the estimated closure date, of 32 years.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 83 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued d Impairment As stated in note 2 f below, the Group considers, at least annually, the recoverability of the values of goodwill recognised in its financial statements.
The Group also considers the recoverability of all assets if there have been any indications of impairment and the recent significant fall in commodity prices constitutes such an indication for the Group.
The recoverability of the value of current assets is addressed through the Groups usual procedures, for example the assessment of counterparty default risk, both customer and financial counterparties, and is not part of this impairment review.
Long-term assets require there to be a reasonable expectation of recoverability of the carrying value of those assets through profitability and cash flow.
Accordingly the Groups approach has been to consider the ability of its groups of cash-generating units, which have no goodwill or other intangible assets in their financial statements, to generate future economic benefits which exceed the value of the related tangible assets in the financial statements.
The Groups strategic planning models, which are on a life of mines basis, were used to calculate an appropriate value of the future economic benefits for each of these cash-generating units in terms of discounted future cash flows.
The impairment review, as at 31 December 2008, concluded that no impairment provisions are required for long-term tangible assets.
e Tax legislation Kazakhstani tax legislation is subject to varying interpretations refer note 32. f Business combinations and goodwill The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year.
Where necessary, the Group hired external valuation consultants to advise on the fair value and asset lives of acquired assets, otherwise these were estimated internally.
The portion of the purchase price not allocated to specific assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as identified by management has been attributed to goodwill.
The Group considers, at least annually, the recoverability of goodwill recognised in its financial statements.
For groups of cash-generating units the Groups strategic planning models were used to calculate discounted future cash flows using the value-in-use method as defined under IAS 36 and thus assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the goodwill.
The models were prepared on a life of mines basis as this period properly reflects the long-term nature of the Groups assets, as is described in the report on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources on pages 123 to 130.
The key assumptions which formed the basis of forecasting future cash flows in the models are: commodity prices, which are based on internal forecasts by the management of the Groups sales and marketing business.
These internal forecasts are consistent with the forecasts of industry market researchers: that long-term costs will be in line with current operational performance, as adjusted for future inflation rates in the Republic of Kazakhstan and, where applicable, the expected movements in key input costs: the successful extraction, processing and sale of reserves in accordance with the quantities described in the report on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources: that the long-term US inflation rate will average 2.5% per annum, in line with external forecasts: and in calculating the discount rate to be applied to the future cash flows the Group consulted with external advisors.
The rate which was used, applied to pre-tax cash flows, was the equivalent of a post tax rate of 14.1% which is the advisors opinion on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital for the Group.
g Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP In May 2008, the Group introduced the Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which covers the Executive Directors and selected senior management.
In the normal course of events, the LTIP awards vest on the third anniversary of the award date subject to achievement of the performance target described below.
The performance target is based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR, ranked against a comparator group of 22 other international mining companies over a three year period from 1 January 2008 through 31 December 2010.
The estimated fair value of each share granted is calculated by applying a Monte Carlo pricing model.
The assumptions adopted to arrive at the estimated fair value are disclosed in note 12.
84 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
New accounting pronouncements The Group has adopted the following standard and interpretation: IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions, which provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving treasury shares or involving Group entities for example, options over a parents shares should be accounted for as equity-settled or cash-settled share-based payment transactions in the standalone accounts of the parent and group companies.
This interpretation does not have an impact on the Groups financial statements.
The following interpretation to published standards is mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 but is not relevant to the Groups operations: IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes effective from period beginning on or after 1 July 2008 The following new standards and interpretations have been published that are not mandatory for the Groups accounting year ended 31 December 2008 which the Group has not early adopted: IFRS 1, IAS 27 Amendment Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRS 8 Operating segments effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Revised Borrowing costs effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payment vesting conditions and cancellations effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations effective from period beginning on or after 1 July 2009 IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and separate financial statements effective from period beginning on or after 1 July 2009 IAS 32, IAS 1 Amendment IAS 32 financial instruments: presentation and IAS 1 presentation of financial statements puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRS 5 Amendment Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2010 IAS 23 Amendment Borrowing costs effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 28, IAS 32, IFRS 7 Amendment IAS 28 Amendment, Investments in associates and consequential amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, and IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 36 Amendment Impairment of assets effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 38 Amendment Intangible assets effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 19 Amendment Employee benefits effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 39 Amendment Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 16 Amendment Property, plant and equipment effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IAS 31 Amendment Interests in joint ventures effective from period beginning on or after 1 January 2009 IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements These new standards and interpretations are not expected to significantly affect the Groups financial statements.
Segment information The Groups primary format for reporting segment information is business segments and the secondary format is geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and receivables and mainly exclude investments, financial assets, IPO funds, term deposits and income tax balances.
Segment liabilities comprise primarily trade and other payables.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Unallocated items comprise mainly investments and related income, interest-bearing loans, financial assets, IPO funds, term deposits, borrowings, finance income, finance costs and taxation.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 85 4.
Segment information continued The Group is organised on the basis of five main business segments: Ferroalloys comprises the extraction and sale of chrome ore as well as the production of ferroalloys from chromium and manganese ores.
Iron Ore comprises the extraction, processing and manufacturing of iron ore products.
Alumina and Aluminium comprises the extraction and processing of bauxite and limestone, and the smelting of alumina and aluminium.
Energy comprises coal mining and power generation.
Logistics the Republic of Kazakhstans main freight forwarder and railroad operator, providing international logistics for all ENRC operations: also rail construction and repair services for the Kazakhstani state rail company.
Internal charges between segments have been reflected in the performance of each business segment.
The Group has a number of activities that exist principally to support the mining operations including power generation, coal mining and transportation.
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into on a commercial basis.
Segment information for the main reportable business segments of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 is set out below.
Alumina and Intra 2008 Segmental analysis Ferroalloys Iron Ore Aluminium Energy Logistics Group In millions of US$ Division Division Division Division Division Corporate eliminations Total Revenue 4,151 1,498 864 203 107 6,823 Inter-segment revenue 5 1 3 233 122 364 Segment revenue 4,156 1,499 867 436 229 364 6,823 Segment operating profit 2,689 835 218 146 32 70 3,850 Finance income 132 Finance costs 143 1 Share of loss of joint ventures 12 Profit before income tax 3,827 Income tax expense 1,143 Profit for the year 2,684 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 100 84 77 31 18 1 311 Underlying EBITDA refer note 36 2,789 919 295 177 50 69 4,161 Capital expenditure 330 278 502 136 48 1,294 Segment assets 3,151 1,628 1,935 702 268 99 45 7,738 Segment liabilities 292 127 146 28 37 44 45 629 7,109 Unallocated assets and liabilities net 199 Investment in joint ventures 313 IPO funds 1,557 Financial assets 81 Loans receivable 72 Borrowings 727 Deferred and current income taxation net 306 Total equity 8,298 Average number of employees 24,681 17,905 14,094 6,658 2,998 231 66,567 1 This relates to BML iron ore. Geographical segment information for the main reportable business segments of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 is set out below: Europe and Rest 1 1 In millions of US$ Eurasia Middle East Asia Pacific of World Total Revenue 2,947 1,456 2,022 398 6,823 Assets 6,894 744 67 33 7,738 Capital expenditure 1,291 1 2 1,294 1 Eurasia comprises the Republic of Kazakhstan, Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union: Asia Pacific comprises China, Korea and Japan.
External revenue is based on where the customer is located.
Segment assets and capital expenditure are based on where the assets are located.
86 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Segment information continued Alumina and Intra 2007 Segmental analysis Ferroalloys Iron Ore Aluminium Energy Logistics Group In millions of US$ Division Division Division Division Division Corporate eliminations Total Revenue 2,178 991 607 181 149 4,106 Inter-segment revenue 1 133 83 217 Segment revenue 2,178 991 608 314 232 217 4,106 Segment operating profit 1,038 359 159 71 27 233 1,421 Finance income 58 Finance costs 158 Profit before income tax 1,321 Income tax expense 507 Profit for the year 814 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 100 89 61 36 17 303 Exceptional items 182 182 1 Underlying EBITDA refer note 36 1,140 470 214 107 44 57 1,918 Capital expenditure 168 227 365 89 57 5 911 Segment assets 1,962 1,222 1,396 514 245 52 27 5,364 Segment liabilities 259 145 117 37 39 76 27 646 4,718 Unallocated assets and liabilities net 201 Prepayment Serov 100 IPO proceeds 2,461 Loans receivable 35 Borrowings 1,424 Deferred and current income taxation net 302 Total equity 5,789 Average number of employees 21,020 19,420 13,870 6,420 3,200 220 64,150 1 In 2008 a decision was taken to report underlying EBITDA refer note 36 rather than the previously reported EBITDA measure.
Geographical segment information for the main reportable business segments of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 is set out below: Europe and Rest 1 1 In millions of US$ Eurasia Middle East Asia Pacific of World Total Revenue 2,167 566 1,114 259 4,106 Assets 4,655 609 47 53 5,364 Capital expenditure 907 4 911 1 Eurasia comprises the Republic of Kazakhstan, Russia and other countries of the former Soviet Union: Asia Pacific comprises China, Korea and Japan.
Balances and transactions with related parties For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party, is under common control, or can exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial and operational decisions.
In considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.
The nature of the related party relationships for those related parties with whom the Group entered into significant transactions or had significant balances outstanding are detailed below.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 87 5.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued Founder Shareholders The Group was formed from a collection of entities jointly controlled by the three Founder Shareholders, Mr Patokh Chodiev, Mr Alijan Ibragimov and Mr Alexander Mashkevitch.
For the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007, the Group undertook significant related party transactions with entities controlled by the three Founder Shareholders.
In 2008, all transactions with related parties over US$1 million had to be and were approved by the Board.
The principal activities conducted with related parties are shown below.
The tables below summarise the related party transactions with entities under common control of the Founder Shareholders: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Revenue from sale of goods 1 Ferroalloys 37 95 Iron ore 2 5 Energy 5 8 Other income Insurance, commission and other income 13 23 Expenses 2 Purchases of raw materials 115 79 Insurance 27 45 Purchases of services 16 3 Other 11 28 Rental expenses 10 7 Bank charges 7 8 Finance income 11 28 3 Finance costs 14 3 36 1 Mainly to Serov pre-acquisition.
2 Purchase of raw material largely comprises purchase of coal and coke from Shubarkol and IMR BV.
3 During the year ended 31 December 2007, US$8 million of interest was incurred in relation to the promissory notes to the State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The outstanding balances with entities under common control of the Founder Shareholders and other related parties at 31 December 2008 and 31December 2007 are as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Non-current assets Loans receivable 20 51 7 Other non-current assets 21 29 114 Current assets Trade and other receivables 23 31 107 Loans receivable net of provisions for impairment of US$1 million 2007: nil 20 2 26 Term deposits 23 1 138 Cash and cash equivalents 319 76 Current liabilities Borrowings 1 Trade and other payables 29 13 6 Other rights and obligations with entities under common control of the Founder Shareholders at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 are set out below: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Guarantees issued by the Group 19 19 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
88 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued The table below summarises the outstanding balances with Eurasian Bank JSC, a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Long-term deposit and restricted cash 21 3 5 Term deposits 23 1 138 Cash and cash equivalents 319 76 Letters of credit 21,23 30 16 Net position 353 235 The effective interest rate for short-term deposits for the year ended 31 December 2008 is 8.4% 2007: 8.4%.
Cash and cash equivalents held at Eurasian Bank JSC bear zero interest rate 2007: zero.
In 2007 the Group agreed to maintain certain existing term deposits with Eurasian Bank JSC until October 2008.
As at 31 December 2007 such deposits amounted to US$123 million and had been fully withdrawn at 31 December 2008.
There were no restrictions on the balance of US$320 million in cash and cash equivalents and term deposits at 31 December 2008.
Acquisitions The Group acquired Serov from companies controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Connected with this transaction pre-acquisition dividends of US$57 million were paid to the Founder Shareholders and US$4 million was paid to an associated company related to coal profits which were not included in the acquisition.
The Group paid a finders fee of US$9 million in respect of the acquisition of the BML stake.
The Group also paid US$1 million consideration for the acquisition of Metallurg to a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Further related party transactions were made after the balance sheet date.
In the period since acquisition, several loan facilities have been granted to BML and Ardila Investments NV to finance certain capital and operating expenditure.
Shareholders Settlement Agreement During June 2007, the Group undertook a series of transactions to consolidate a number of assets and liabilities outstanding with various companies under the control of the Founder Shareholders.
There was a settlement of the overall outstanding balance to eliminate amounts owing from Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC subsidiaries to the shareholder group.
As a result of the above transactions, the inter-company balances within the ENRC Group were significantly reduced.
The inter-company balances excluding certain balances, which existed with the immediate shareholders of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC on formation of the Group now exist entirely between the subsidiaries of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC as opposed to being in place between the Founder Shareholders of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC and its subsidiaries.
The following loans were settled as part of the Shareholders Settlement Agreement: Kherson Holding BV The Group received financing loans from Kherson Holding BV, a related party, for the amount of US$54 million.
The loan agreements specified an interest rate of 0% and that the principal was to be repaid by 2010.
As at 31 December 2007, these loans had been reassigned to ENRC NV as a part of the reassignment process resulting from the Shareholders Settlement Agreement.
CIM Global Investments BV During December 2006, CIM Global Investments BV provided a short-term loan of US$47 million to the Group for the purpose of financing the construction of the aluminium smelter.
The loan bore interest at the rate of 5.0% per annum and as at 31 December 2007 had been settled in full as part of the Shareholders Settlement Agreement.
ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV During December 2006, ENRC Kazakhstan Holding BV provided a short-term loan of US$139 million to the Group for the purpose of financing the construction of the aluminium smelter.
The loan bore interest at the rate of LIBOR plus 1.0% and as at 31 December 2007 had been settled in full as part of the Shareholders Settlement Agreement.
Kazakhstan Minerals Resource Corporation KMRC The Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC EEC concluded an Investment Agreement with KMRC according to which KMRC had committed to invest US$5 million annually from 2000 until 2009 and US$20 million annually from 2010 until 2024.
The total amount to be invested was equal to US$344 million.
In light of the legal restructuring, the State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan the Committee agreed to annul KMRCs obligation, during 2007, on condition that Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC committed in writing to the planned capital expenditure investment programme at EEC.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 89 5.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued The Republic of Kazakhstan In addition to conducting transactions with entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders, the Group conducted transactions with entities controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan, one of the Groups shareholders.
The principal activities were as follows: provision of railway repair services through Company Zhol Zhondeushi LLP: supply of electricity through EEC: and operating costs, including appropriate taxes.
All revenue-generating transactions between the Group and Government departments and agencies are considered to be related party transactions.
Costs of transactions between the Group and Government departments and agencies are also considered to be related party transactions unless they meet all of the following criteria: they were done in the normal course of the Government departments and agencies dealings: there is no choice of suppliers: and they have terms and conditions including prices, privileges, credit terms, regulations etc that are consistently applied to all entities, public or private.
The related party transactions with Government departments and agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan are set out below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Revenue from the provision of services 89 134 Revenue from the sale of goods 5 6 The Group did not have any non-standard or privileged transactions with entities controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Key management compensation Key management compensation is summarised below: Years ended 31 December In thousands of US$ 2008 2007 Salaries and other short-term employee benefits, including bonuses 34,898 29,349 IPO bonus 85,899 Total 34,898 115,248 Balances outstanding with key management arising from key management compensation were as follows: As at 31 December In thousands of US$ 2008 2007 Receivable from key management 5,985 5,388 Payable to key management 9,651 13,887 Board compensation Compensation payable to Directors of the Company is for the services performed for the Group.
Directors detailed emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 67.
IPO bonus In 2007, the Company granted US$150 million cash and share awards to Directors, management, senior employees and other advisers in respect of their contribution to the Groups preparations for Admission.
US$41 million cash awards and US$109 million worth of ordinary shares, 10,000,000 shares with a nominal value of US$0.20 each were awarded.
Revenue Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Sales of goods, net of discounts 6,618 3,861 Logistics 107 149 Sales of by-products and other income 98 96 Total revenue 6,823 4,106 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
90 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Cost of sales Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Materials and components used 1,172 835 Staff costs 423 354 Depreciation and amortisation 296 271 Power and energy 108 71 Royalties and other taxes 88 52 Repairs and maintenance 58 35 Insurance 25 28 In-plant carriage costs 6 11 Realised gain on the cash flow hedge 17 4 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 160 38 Other 89 86 Total cost of sales 2,088 1,701 8.
Distribution costs Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Transportation costs 342 269 Agency and commission fees 32 17 Insurance 7 19 Staff costs 5 3 Taxes and duties 18 Other 45 47 Total distribution costs 431 373 9.
Selling, general and administrative expenses Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Staff costs 154 290 Professional and other services 50 74 Taxes other than on income 42 47 Sponsorship and donations 31 34 Impairment loss provision 24 5 Travel and entertainment 24 20 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 15 32 Rent 14 12 Repairs and maintenance 10 4 Bank charges 9 11 Utilities and telecommunication services 6 5 Insurance 3 4 Other 40 68 Total selling, general and administrative expenses 422 606 Costs included in relation to the IPO 182 Exceptional items Costs expensed for the year ended 31 December 2007, in relation to the initial public offering, were US$182 million of which US$150 million IPO bonuses are included in staff costs.
The remaining US$32 million is in professional and other services in the table above.
Costs of US$96 million were taken to equity.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 91 10.
Net other operating expenses Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Net foreign exchange losses 28 8 Other expense income 9 16 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 6 1 Net losses on financial instruments and derivatives 32 Insurance income 7 13 Net income from sale of other assets 4 7 Total net other operating expenses 32 5 Until 18 September 2007, the forward exchange contracts were not formally designated as cash flow hedges and consequently the fair value changes of US$32 million to that date were recognised through net other operating expenses.
Auditors remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor as detailed below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 1.5 1.4 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.4 2.6 Non-audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: 1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.5 20.5 Other services related to taxation 0.7 4.3 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 2.2 All other services 0.6 1.4 1 In 2008, this relates to the half-year review.
2007 comprises primarily services in relation to the preparation for the Listing of the Company.
Employee benefit expense Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Wages and salaries 531 587 Social security costs 49 57 Pension costs 2 1 Total employee benefit expense 582 645 Average number of employees 4 66,567 64,150 Included in the total employee benefit expense for 2007 is US$150 million relating to costs expensed in relation to the IPO of which US$145 million is included in wages and salaries and US$5 million is in social security costs.
Long Term Incentive Plan In May 2008 the Group made awards under the Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC LTIP to the Executive Directors and selected senior management.
In the normal course of events, the LTIP awards vest on the third anniversary of the award date subject to achievement of performance targets.
The performance target is based on the Groups total shareholder return TSR, ranked against a comparator group of 22 other international mining companies over a three-year period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010.
The estimated fair value of each share granted is 8.47 US$16.64.
This was calculated by applying a Monte Carlo model.
The model inputs were as follows at grant date: the share price at grant date of 12.10, expected volatility of 42%, expected dividend yield of 1.01% based on the dividend yield of an appropriately comparable peer group as there was no ENRC history of paying dividends at the grant date, and a risk-free interest rate of 2.55%.
The Groups expected volatility is based on the historical average annualised volatility of the comparator group mining companies and reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the awards is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
92 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Employee benefit expense continued Recognition of services received The expense recognised for share-based payments during the year ended 31 December 2008 was US$3 million.
The number of the outstanding shares awarded under the LTIP: Number of shares As at 31 December 2008 Outstanding at the beginning of the period Awarded 756,506 Forfeited Lapsed 9,179 Outstanding at the end of the period 747,327 As at 31 December 2008, of the 747,327 shares outstanding at the end of the period, 4,393 were available to exercise.
Finance income Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Interest income from money market funds 55 Bank interest income 54 33 Foreign exchange gains 13 Interest income from loans and receivables 10 25 Total finance income 132 58 14.
Finance costs Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Foreign exchange losses 55 9 Interest expense on bank borrowings 41 54 Other finance costs 24 27 Unwinding of asset retirement obligation discount 27 7 4 Fair value loss on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 6 Unwinding of employee benefits obligations discount 28 5 1 Amortisation of financial instruments discount 3 21 Other interest expense related parties 5 3 7 Amortisation of financial instruments discount related parties 5 5 Interest expense on promissory notes related parties 5 32 Less capitalised borrowing costs 1 2 Total finance costs 143 158 The capitalised borrowing costs arose on financing directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and equipment within EEC 2007: Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC KAS.
The average capitalisation rate was 3.1% for the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: 9.0%.
Income taxes Income tax expense comprises the following: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Corporate income tax current year 1,255 474 Corporate income tax prior year 12 22 Deferred income tax benefit expense current period 124 11 Income tax expense for the year 1,143 507 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 93 15.
Income taxes continued Factors affecting future tax charges Future tax charges are affected by the mix of profits in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates, and by the level of excess profits tax payable in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Reconciliation between the expected and the actual taxation charge is provided below.
Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Profit before income tax 3,827 1,321 Notional tax charge at the Kazakhstani tax rate of 30% 2007: 30% 1,148 396 Effect of change in tax rate 177 Items not deductible for tax purposes 44 62 Effects of different tax rates in other countries 4 78 Income not chargeable for tax purposes 30 12 Excess profits tax current year 90 33 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax loss carry forwards 23 Unrecognised deferred tax asset 69 89 Prior year adjustment 12 22 Other 6 5 Income tax expense for the year, an effective rate of 30% 2007: 38% 1,143 507 Taxation has been provided at current rates on the profits earned in the period.
The effective tax rate is equal to the statutory rate at which the Group predominantly pays tax in the Republic of Kazakhstan of 30% primarily due to the compensating effects of tax losses which are unrecognised for tax purposes, excess profits tax, the effects of different tax rates in other countries and the impact of changes in Kazakhstani tax rates leading to a reduction in the rate at which deferred tax is calculated.
The tax charges above arise mainly outside of the United Kingdom.
The Republic of Kazakhstan announced a phased reduction to its corporate income tax rate: with effect from 1 January 2009 the rate reduces from 30% to 20%: a further decrease to 17.5% on 1 January 2010: and 15% from 1 January 2011.
Deferred taxation The tax effect of the movements in these temporary differences is detailed below and is recorded at rates of 15%, 17.5% or 20% at 31 December 2008 2007: 30%.
The rate depends on when the temporary difference is expected to reverse.
Temporary timing differences comprise of deferred tax on provisions against receivables, employee bonuses, benefits and pensions, and other similar short-term deposits.
The Group has not recorded a deferred tax liability in respect of taxable temporary differences of US$4,354 million 2007: US$2,164 million associated with investments in subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of those temporary differences and does not intend to reverse them in the foreseeable future.
The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Charged Translation credited Charged to 31 December Transfer from to Income credited presentation 31 December In millions of US$ 2007 Acquisitions current tax Statement to Equity currency 2008 Gross deferred tax asset Temporary timing differences 108 22 2 3 81 Less offsetting with deferred tax liabilities 100 51 49 Recognised deferred tax asset 8 29 2 3 32 US$25 million of the gross deferred tax asset is expected to reverse within the next year.
Charged Translation credited Charged to 31 December Transfer from to Income credited presentation 31 December In millions of US$ 2007 Acquisitions current tax Statement to Equity currency 2008 Tax effect of taxable temporary differences Property, plant and equipment 381 147 7 227 Other temporary timing differences 14 21 31 1 5 Gross deferred tax liability 395 21 31 146 7 232 Less offsetting with deferred tax assets 100 51 49 Deferred tax liability 295 21 31 95 7 183 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
94 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
Income taxes continued US$3 million of the gross deferred tax liability is expected to reverse within the next year.
Charged Translation credited Charged to 31 December Transfer from to Income credited presentation 31 December In millions of US$ 2006 Acquisitions current tax Statement to Equity currency 2007 Gross deferred tax asset Temporary timing differences 62 43 3 108 Less offsetting with deferred tax liabilities 50 46 4 100 Recognised deferred tax asset 12 3 1 8 Tax effect of taxable temporary differences Property, plant and equipment 315 48 18 381 Other temporary timing differences 15 6 9 2 14 Gross deferred tax liability 330 54 9 20 395 Less offsetting with deferred tax assets 50 46 4 100 Deferred tax liability 280 8 9 16 295 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of deductible temporary differences of US$65 million for the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: US$89 million.
It is probable that future taxable profits will not be available to utilise the benefits of these temporary differences.
In the context of the Groups current structure, tax losses and current tax assets of different Group companies may not be offset against current tax liabilities and taxable profits of other Group companies and, accordingly, taxes may accrue even where there is a consolidated tax loss.
Therefore, deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when they relate to the same taxable entity.
Earnings per share EPS and dividends per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of the Group by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all diluted potential ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and adjusted share data used in the EPS computations: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Net profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Group 2,642 798 Exceptional items attributable to equity shareholders of the Group 182 Net profit before exceptional items 2,642 980 Number of shares: 1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 1,287,750,000 1,015,767,123 Adjusted for: Share awards 489,628 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 1,288,239,628 1,015,767,123 EPS basic and diluted US cents 205 79 EPS basic and diluted before exceptional items US cents 205 97 1 For the year ended 31 December 2007, the EPS calculation has assumed that the ordinary shares in issue pursuant to share exchange agreements in relation to the acquisition of the Group have been in issue throughout the period, and is calculated after taking into account the share split which occurred on 8 November 2007.
On 19 November 2008 an interim dividend of 12 US cents per share for which the equivalent was 6.44 British pence per share as determined using the closing mid spot exchange rate on 20 August 2008, amounting to US$155 million was paid to shareholders.
On 25 March 2009, the Board of Directors approved a final dividend of 19 US cents per share, to give a full year dividend of 31 US cents per share refer note 37.
The dividends paid in 2007 were pre-IPO dividends amounting to US$500 million 49 US cents per share.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 95 17.
Property, plant and equipment Movements in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Buildings Assets 31 December 2008 Freehold and mining Plant and under In millions of US$ land construction equipment Vehicles construction Total Cost at 1 January 2008 45 1,224 1,978 567 496 4,310 1 Additions 1 16 69 84 1,156 1,294 Additions on acquisitions 2 88 25 5 28 148 Transfers 136 493 70 699 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 22 22 Disposals 6 19 9 7 41 Exchange differences 1 12 27 4 7 51 At 31 December 2008 47 1,414 2,519 713 945 5,638 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2008 239 598 220 21 1,078 Disposals 1 15 8 24 Depreciation charge 62 195 65 322 Impairment charge reversal 4 3 1 6 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 20 20 Exchange differences 2 3 1 6 At 31 December 2008 302 778 276 1,356 Net balance sheet amount at 31 December 2008 47 1,112 1,741 437 945 4,282 Held under finance leases refer note 26 1 1 Other property, plant and equipment pledged as security refer note 32 56 8 64 1 Negative additions in buildings and mining construction result from a revision of discount rates applied to calculate the asset retirement obligations refer note 27.
Additions to assets under construction include US$1 million of capitalised borrowings costs for the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: US$2 million.
Buildings Assets 31 December 2007 Freehold and mining Plant and under In millions of US$ land construction equipment Vehicles construction Total Cost at 1 January 2007 46 896 1,393 456 493 3,284 Additions 1 39 101 52 718 911 Transfers 246 443 38 727 Disposals 4 13 47 6 15 85 Exchange differences 2 56 88 27 27 200 At 31 December 2007 45 1,224 1,978 567 496 4,310 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2007 172 400 160 9 741 Disposals 3 2 8 13 Depreciation charge 57 163 58 278 Impairment charge 2 11 12 25 Exchange differences 11 26 10 47 At 31 December 2007 239 598 220 21 1,078 Net balance sheet amount at 31 December 2007 45 985 1,380 347 475 3,232 Held under finance leases refer note 26 2 2 Other property, plant and equipment pledged as security refer note 32 13 4 17 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
96 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Goodwill and intangible assets In millions of US$ Notes Goodwill Other Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2007 384 5 389 Addition 1 1 Carrying amount at 31 December 2007 384 6 390 Cost at 1 January 2008 384 6 390 Acquired with subsidiaries 35 3 3 Goodwill on acquisition 85 85 Exchange differences 17 17 Carrying amount at 31 December 2008 486 9 495 The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Kazchrome 268 183 Iron Ore Division 179 170 Energy Division 32 31 Serov 7 Total carrying amount of goodwill 486 384 Goodwill is allocated according to the country of operation and business segments.
Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in accordance with the policy disclosed in note 1.
The recoverable amounts of goodwill have been assessed by reference to value in use.
The discount rate used is 14.1%.
As at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 there is no impairment of goodwill refer note 2.
Financial assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 At fair value through profit and loss Short-term financial assets held for trading 71 170 71 170 Available-for-sale Short-term available-for-sale investments 6 6 Held-to-maturity Short-term investments held-to-maturity 4 4 Total financial assets 81 170 At 31 December 2008, short-term financial assets held for trading US$71 million and investments held-to-maturity US$4 million comprised government bonds of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan acquired by the Group in November 2008.
During 2008, the Group recorded a fair value loss of US$6 million for short-term financial assets held for trading refer note 14.
At 31 December 2007, short-term financial assets held for trading consists of IPO proceeds invested in money market securities with a maturity of greater than three months and less than one year.
The Group has also investments in listed equity shares.
At 31 December 2008, the fair value of the quoted equity shares of US$6 million was determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
During 2008, a fair value loss of US$8 million was recorded in equity.
Financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Kazakhstani tenge 75 Canadian dollars 6 US dollars 170 Total financial assets 81 170 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 97 20.
Loans receivable As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Non-current Loans receivable from related parties 5, 35 51 7 Loans receivable 35 19 Total non-current loans receivable 70 7 Current Loans receivable from related parties 5 3 26 Other loans receivable 2 Less provision for loans receivable 1 Total current loans receivable 2 28 Total loans receivable 72 35 The Groups loans mature as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Less than 1 year 3 28 Between 2 and 5 years 19 7 Greater than 5 years 50 Total loans receivable 72 35 Loans and receivables from related parties include: TransRemMach LLP During 2008, the Group granted a loan to TransRemMach LLP.
This loan bears interest at the rate of 12% per annum.
As at 31 December 2008, the balance of this loan was US$7 million.
IMR Marketing During 2006, the Group entered into two loan agreements with IMR Marketing AG a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders for the amount of US$8 million.
An additional loan agreement was made in 2007 for the amount of US$6 million.
Interest was charged on the loan at three-month LIBOR plus 1.5%.
This loan was settled in full as part of the Serov acquisition settlement agreement 2007: US$14 million.
Bahia Minerals BV BML In the period since the joint venture has been established, several loan facilities have been granted to BML and Ardila Investments NV, the Groups joint venture partner, to finance certain capital and operating expenditure.
The Groups loans receivable are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 US dollars 57 31 Kazakhstani tenge 15 4 Total loans receivable 72 35 The fair values of the Groups loans receivable are as follows: Carrying values Fair values | In millions of US$ 2008 2007 2008 2007 Loans receivable 19 19 Loans receivable from related parties 53 33 53 33 Other loans receivable 2 2 Total loans receivable 72 35 72 35 The fair value of current loans and receivables equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
The fair values of current and non-current loans and receivables are determined using discounted cash flows at the interest rates between 3% and 12% prevailing as at 31 December 2008.
98 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Other non-current assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services 394 208 Long-term inventory 35 23 Other advances and non-current assets 6 8 Long-term deposits and restricted cash related parties 5 3 5 Other advances and non-current assets related parties 5 3 1 Prepayment for Serov acquisition 35 100 Total other non-current assets 429 322 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services are for machinery and equipment, in particular vehicles and power generating units required by the plants.
US$23 million 2007: US$8 million of the balance relates to letters of credit with Eurasian Bank JSC for purchases of property, plant and equipment refer note 5.
Long-term inventory is represented by the slag dump of chrome ore which was recorded at fair value at the date of Serov acquisition refer note 35.
At 31 December 2008, long-term deposits and restricted cash represents bank deposits of US$3 million for special funds for the retirement of assets in accordance with the requirements of contracts on subsurface use 2007: US$2 million.
The fair value of restricted cash is not significantly different from its carrying value.
In July 2007, the Group transferred US$100 million to a subsidiary of International Mineral Resources BV, a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders, as a partial prepayment for the Groups acquisition refer note 35 of Serov.
Inventories As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Finished goods 335 166 Raw materials 215 149 Consumable stores 128 88 Work-in-progress 77 40 Other inventory 3 1 758 444 Less provision for obsolete and slow-moving inventory 34 6 Total inventories 724 438 There were no inventories pledged as security as at 31 December 2008 and 2007.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 99 23.
Trade and other receivables As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Trade receivables 461 413 Trade receivables from related parties 5 11 41 Term deposits 193 65 Term deposits with related parties 5 1 138 Letters of credit from related parties 5 7 8 Restricted cash 32 50 34 Other receivables 13 17 Other amounts due from related parties 5 38 Less: provision for impairment 15 5 Total trade receivables and financial assets 721 749 VAT recoverable 234 135 Advances to suppliers 56 73 Prepaid expenses 48 58 Income tax prepayment 27 13 Prepaid expenses to related parties 5 12 9 Advances to related parties 5 1 11 Less: provision for impairment 9 3 Total other current assets 369 296 Total trade and other receivables 1,090 1,045 The restricted cash represents US$30 million funds allocated for repayment of the Structured Trade Finance Facility 2007: US$34 million refer note 26 and US$20 million 2007: nil cash collateral for bank guarantees in relation to the buy out of Serov minority interest refer note 37.
The fair value of trade and other receivables approximates the carrying value.
As at 31 December 2008, trade and other receivables of US$186 million 2007: US$99 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Current and not impaired 284 367 Less than 3 months overdue 165 91 Between 3 to 6 months 14 2 Between 6 to 12 months 4 6 Over 12 months overdue 3 Total past due but not impaired 186 99 Individually determined to be impaired gross 15 5 Total individually impaired 15 5 Total trade and other receivables 485 471 Less: Impairment loss provision 15 5 Total trade and other receivables net 470 466 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
100 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables continued Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade and other receivables financial and other current assets is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 At January 1 8 8 Provision for receivables impairment 23 5 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 4 4 Unused amounts reversed 2 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 December 24 8 The Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in various currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 US dollars 579 618 Kazakhstani tenge 330 326 Russian roubles 145 58 European euros 24 17 British pounds 10 26 Other 2 Total trade and other receivables 1,090 1,045 24.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Cash at bank and in hand 657 529 Short-term deposits 1,836 2,019 Total cash and cash equivalents 2,493 2,548 The Groups cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 US dollars 1,868 1,982 European euros 313 299 Kazakhstani tenge 252 89 Russian roubles 53 16 British pounds 6 162 Other 1 Total cash and cash equivalents 2,493 2,548 25.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 101 25.
Share capital continued The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 8 December 2006 as a public limited company with a share capital of 50,000 divided into two ordinary shares of 1 each and 49,998 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each.
The share capital was one-quarter paid.
On 19 December 2006, the Board resolved to effect the transfer of the two ordinary shares and 49,998 redeemable preference shares to the Committee.
On the same day the authorised share capital of the Company was increased from 50,000 to 50,000 and US$200,000,000 by the creation and issuance of 20,000,000 new ordinary shares of US$10 each as part of the acquisition of ENRC NV.
In addition, the 49,998 non-cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 each held by the Committee, were redesignated as ordinary shares of 1 each, the resulting 50,000 ordinary shares of 1 each were consolidated into one ordinary share of 50,000 and then the ordinary share was redesignated as a special share.
Share split At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 8 November 2007, each of the issued, and each of the authorised but unissued, ordinary shares of US$10.00 par value each in the capital of the Company was subdivided into 50 ordinary shares of US$0.20 par value each.
On the same day, the total authorised number of shares was increased to 2,000,000,000.
As at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007, the total authorised number of shares is 2,000,000,000.
Issuance of shares on IPO On 12 December 2007, the Company successfully completed its IPO and Listed on the London Stock Exchange.
A total number of 277,750,000 shares with a par value of US$0.20 each were issued at 5.40 for total proceeds of 1.5 billion.
Costs related to the issuance of new shares and attributable IPO costs taken against share premium amounted to US$96 million.
A further 10,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of US$0.20 each were awarded to Directors, management, senior employees and professional advisers as part of the IPO Plan.
The share awards were subject to a restriction period of one year from the date of the IPO, during which any dealings were prohibited.
Redemption of special share Pursuant to the Companys articles of association, the one special share of nominal value of 50,000 held by the Committee was cancelled upon admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange.
As the share was only one-quarter paid up, 12,500 was paid to the Committee upon cancellation.
Borrowings As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Non-current Bank borrowings 350 1,030 Bonds 17 32 Term loans 4 2 Finance lease liabilities 17 1 1 372 1,065 Current Bank borrowings 351 357 Term loans 4 Bonds 1 Finance lease liabilities with related parties 5,17 1 355 359 Total borrowings 727 1,424 Total borrowings include secured liabilities bank and collateralised borrowings of US$15 million at 31 December 2008 2007: US$4 million.
The Groups borrowings mature as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Less than 1 year 355 359 Between 2 and 5 years 371 1,033 After 5 years 1 32 Total borrowings 727 1,424 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
102 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Borrowings continued The Groups borrowings are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 US dollars 693 1,374 Kazakhstani tenge 18 50 European euros 9 Chinese renminbi yuan 7 Total borrowings 727 1,424 The effective interest rates at balance sheet date were as follows: Floating interest rates Fixed interest rates | In % pa KZT US$ EUR KZT US$ EUR CNY As at 31 December 2008 Bank borrowings LIBOR EURIBOR 8.0% plus plus 1.35% 0.5% Term loans 12.7% Finance lease liabilities 13.9% Bonds 9.8% 10% As at 31 December 2007 Bank borrowings LIBOR 11.0%- plus 14.0% 1.35% Term loans 13.7% Finance lease liabilities 13.9% Bonds 9.5%9.8% The carrying values and fair values are as follows: Carrying values Fair values | In millions of US$ 2008 2007 2008 2007 Bank borrowings 701 1,387 702 1,389 Bonds 17 33 17 33 Term loans 8 2 8 2 Finance lease liabilities 1 1 1 1 Finance lease liabilities with related parties 1 1 Total borrowings 727 1,424 728 1,426 The fair value of current borrowings equals their carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
The fair values of current and non-current borrowings are determined using discounted cash flows at interest rates of between 1.8% and 10.8% prevailing as at 31 December 2008 2007: 5.0% and 14.4%.
Structured Trade Finance Facility On 15 December 2006, ENRC Marketing AG entered into a US$1,000 million Structured Trade Finance Facility the Facility.
By a Supplemental Agreement dated 12 April 2007, the Facility was increased to US$1,480 million.
The Facility is secured principally by grants of security over certain sales contracts entered into by ENRC Marketing AG and third party buyers and all receivables thereunder.
The associated accounts receivable balance at 31 December 2008 was US$178 million 2007: US$261 million.
All monies payable by the end purchasers under the sales contracts are required to be paid into bank accounts which are also used to secure the Facility.
Withdrawals from these bank accounts are subject to restrictions imposed under the terms of the Facility Agreement.
The Group agreed to certain restrictive covenants in respect of Kazchrome, as guarantor of the loan, which prohibit Kazchrome from lending more than US$100 million and having total debt of greater than US$1,500 million outstanding at any time during the duration of the Facility.
In addition, the guarantee provides for other restrictions on Kazchrome including on payment of dividends, giving guarantees or indemnities creating security interests or changing its business.
During 2008, the Group made accelerated repayments of the Structured Trade Finance Facility for a total amount of US$300 million.
As at 31 December 2008, US$686 million of the Facility was drawn down 2007: US$1,374 million.
Repayment of the balance occurs in equal and consecutive monthly instalments, with final payment scheduled for December 2010.
The interest rate applicable to the loan is one-month LIBOR plus 1.35% per annum.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 103 27.
Asset retirement obligations The Group has a legal obligation to landfill site restoration during the mining operations and decommissioning of its mining property after its expected closure.
The timing of decommissioning activity is subject to reassessment at the same time as the revision of the Groups proved and probable reserves.
As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Current portion of provisions for asset retirement obligations 29 4 Non-current portion of provisions for asset retirement obligations 69 86 Total provisions for asset retirement obligations 73 86 Movements in asset retirement obligations are as follows: Landfill Site decommisIn millions of US$ Note restoration sioning Total At 1 January 2007 25 19 44 Capitalisation of additional closure costs 17 16 22 38 Unwinding of discount 14 2 2 4 Production costs 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 December 2007 43 43 86 At 1 January 2008 43 43 86 Capitalisation of additional closure costs 1 1 Acquisition of subsidiary 6 2 8 Decrease due to change in estimate 17 20 20 Production costs 1 6 7 Unwinding of discount 14 3 4 7 Utilised during the year 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 December 2008 30 43 73 In accordance with the contracts on subsurface use, the Group makes annual obligatory contributions to form a deposit fund for the closure costs which will take effect upon exhaustion of the mineral deposits between 2010 and 2063.
The amount of the provision for asset retirement obligations is determined using the nominal prices effective at the reporting dates by applying the forecasted rate of inflation for the expected period of the life of the mines.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the level of discount and inflation rates.
Principal assumptions made in calculations of asset retirement obligations are presented below: Years ended 31 December 2008 2007 | Kazakhstani Russian Kazakhstani Russian entities entities entities entities Discount rate 11.4% 10.6% 7.4% Inflation rate 8.6% 7.0% 8.3% 28.
Employee benefit obligations The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation at beginning of the year 52 48 Business acquisitions 4 Interest cost 14 5 1 Benefits paid 3 1 Current service cost 3 6 Actuarial gains 22 2 Exchange differences 2 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation at end of the year 37 52 Net liability 37 52 Refer to changes in actuarial assumptions disclosed below resulting in actuarial gains of US$22 million in 2008.
104 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Employee benefit obligations continued The present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2006, 2005 and 2004 was US$48 million, US$32 million and US$29 million, respectively.
Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Interest cost 14 5 1 Current service cost 3 6 Actuarial gains 22 2 Income expense recognised in income statement 14 5 Allocation of the current service cost and actuarial gains losses recognised in the consolidated income statement: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Cost of sales 18 2 Selling, general and administrative 1 2 Total current service cost and actuarial gains losses recognised in the income statement 19 4 No such costs and expenses were capitalised as part of the property, plant and equipment during 2008 and 2007.
Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the income statement 7 15 The cumulative amount of actuarial losses recognised in the income statement for the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2005 was US$17 million and US$5 million, respectively.
Principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date were as follows: As at 31 December 2008 2007 Discount rate at 31 December 6.0%11.0% 5.0% 8.0% Future salary increases 8.0%10.0% 7.0%13.0% Average labour turnover rate of production personnel 6.0%20.0% 6.0%21.0% Average labour turnover rate of administrative personnel 1.0%12.0% 1.0%12.0% Assumptions regarding future mortality are based upon advice in accordance with published statistics and experience in the Republic of Kazakhstan and Russia.
The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date are as follows: 2008 2007 Male 11 11 Female 15 15 The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date, is as follows: 2008 2007 Male 12 12 Female 16 16 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 105 29.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Trade payables 149 107 Advances received from customers 123 91 Accruals relating to employee entitlements 81 106 Payable to related parties 5 13 6 Distributions payable 5 4 Asset retirement obligations 27 4 Accruals and deferred income 3 Other payables 36 34 Total trade and other payables 411 351 30.
Other taxes payable As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Royalties, property, environmental and other taxes 26 15 VAT payable 18 26 Social taxes 5 10 Withholding taxes 42 Total other taxes payable 49 93 31.
Cash generated from operations Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Profit before income tax 3,827 1,321 Adjustments for: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 17 311 303 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 10 6 1 Provision for doubtful debts and loans receivable 9 24 Provisions for impairment on inventory 28 1 Changes in estimates for asset retirement obligations 7 Share of loss from joint ventures 12 Actuarial movements in employee benefit obligations 19 5 Taxes other than on income 42 Share-based payments 3 Fair value loss on derivative financial assets 46 Net foreign exchange loss 67 Finance costs income net 31 100 1 Changes in working capital Asset retirement obligations 1 Trade and other receivables 17 241 Employee related liabilities 25 46 Inventories 246 64 Other taxes payable 83 25 Trade and other payables 6 104 Cash flows from operating activities 3,885 1,647 Interest paid 70 155 Interest received 114 56 Income tax paid 1,163 469 Net cash generated from operating activities 2,766 1,079 1 Excluding the effects of acquisition and exchange differences on consolidation.
106 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Cash generated from operations continued Non-cash transactions Investing and financing transactions that did not require the use of cash and cash equivalents were excluded from the cash flow statement.
Non-cash transactions consisted of: i The acquisition of property, plant and equipment in exchange for inventory of US$3 million for the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: US$3 million.
ii In May 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of a 50% interest in BML for a consideration of US$306 million which included US$6 million of interest income on a pre-acquisition loan.
iii In April 2008, the Group acquired a controlling interest in Serov and subsequently US$21 million of loans issued by the Group were eliminated on consolidation.
Contingencies, commitments and operating risks Legal proceedings From time to time and in the normal course of business, claims against the Group are received, including those arising from tax inquiries.
On the basis of management estimates and both internal and external professional advice, it is not anticipated that any material losses will be incurred in respect of claims in excess of provisions that have been made in these financial statements.
Tax legislation Kazakhstani tax legislation and practice are in a state of continuous development and, therefore, are subject to varying interpretations and frequent changes which may be applied retroactively.
The interpretation of tax, transfer pricing and excess profit tax legislation by the Kazakhstani tax authorities as applied to the transactions and activities of the Group may not coincide with that of management.
As a result, tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Group may be assessed additional taxes, penalties and fines.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Kazakhstani tax authorities for five years.
Following the recent completion of tax audits focused on excess profit tax, the risks reported in prior years relating to potential interpretational differences in respect of excess profit tax no longer apply.
Pending completion of tax audits focused on transfer pricing policies applied in the past, there continues to be a risk that the Kazakhstani tax authorities may challenge past practice.
Whilst any challenge may result in material claims being made against the Group, management believes that, based on clarifications obtained from the relevant authorities, they would be successful in defending any such challenge.
At 31 December 2008, no provision had been recorded 2007: nil.
Tax legislation in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom may impose additional tax liabilities due to the low rate of tax in certain jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Management believe they will be successful in defending any challenge from these tax authorities and therefore no provision for potential liabilities is required.
Capital expenditure commitments As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Property, plant and equipment 526 497 Total capital expenditure commitments 526 497 In October 2007 the Group has provided an undertaking to the Committee on Investment Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan in relation to a railway project.
The Board of Directors have approved the initial managements cost of US$911 million for the project.
Depending on the results of the ongoing feasibility study, the Group has committed that sufficient funds will be made available to finance the project up to the amount approved by the Board of Directors.
Guarantees Guarantees are irrevocable assurances that the Group will make payments in the event that another party cannot meet its obligations.
The Group has guaranteed the following obligations: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 SSGPO 19 22 AoK 1 Kazchrome 12 EEC 1 Total guarantees 20 35 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 107 32.
Contingencies, commitments and operating risks continued Assets pledged and restricted The Group has the following assets pledged as collateral: As at 31 December 2008 2007 | Asset Related Asset Related In millions of US$ Note pledged liability pledged liability Property, plant and equipment 17 64 15 17 Long-term deposits and restricted cash 5,21 23 5 Restricted cash 23 30 34 686 1,374 } } Accounts receivable 23,26 178 261 Total assets pledged and restricted 295 701 317 1,374 Operating leases As at 31 December 2008 2007 | Due Due Due Due Due less between 2 after Due less between 2 after In millions of US$ than 1 year and 5 years 5 years Total than 1 year and 5 years 5 years Total Minimum lease payments 24 31 16 71 15 24 87 126 Rental expenses relating to the operating leases of mining facilities and administrative facilities are recognised in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively.
Insurance policies The Republic of Kazakhstani entities within the Group purchased a primary insurance programme which is placed with a local insurance company in the Republic of Kazakhstan, as required by Kazakhstani law.
ENRC do not utilise the services of an insurance broker.
Facultative reinsurance cover is then placed into the European insurance market via Marsh Insurance Brokers in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The primary insurance programme covers such risks including: property damage, business interruption and machinery breakdown: medical expenses: employers liability: and various logistics cover.
Supply commitments ENRC Marketing AG has a contract with UC RUSAL, a large aluminium producer, to supply a minimum of 1.2 million tonnes of alumina per annum, plus an option to supply an additional 200 thousand tonnes per annum.
The contract expires on 31 December 2016.
Pricing is determined by a formula linked to the LME aluminium price.
In April 2007, the Group entered into a long-term contract with MMK, a large Russian steel producer, to supply saleable iron ore concentrate and pellets.
The contract extends until 2017 and requires MMK to purchase specified quantities at prices determined by reference to the published world price benchmarks for iron ore concentrate and pellets.
Prices are revised annually on 1 April by reference to the world price benchmarks.
In light of the current economic downturn and the impact on our customer MMK, in the fourth quarter 2008 the Group agreed to temporarily waive the minimum contractual sales volume.
Contractual sales volumes will continue to be reviewed on a regular basis, taking into account developing market conditions.
Environmental matters The enforcement of environmental regulation is evolving and the enforcement posture of the Kazakhstani Government authorities is continually being reconsidered in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Group periodically evaluates its obligations under environmental regulations.
As obligations are determined, they are recognised immediately.
Potential liabilities, which might arise as a result of changes in existing regulations, civil litigation or legislation, cannot be estimated but could be material.
In the current enforcement climate under existing legislation, management believes that there are no significant liabilities for environmental damage.
108 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Derivative financial instruments All derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value and reported as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the carrying balances of the liabilities as at balance sheet date.
As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Current portion: Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge 54 19 Non-current portion: Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge 51 Total derivative financial instruments 54 70 In June 2007, SSGPO JSC SSGPO and Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC AoK entered into forward foreign exchange contracts with Deutsche Bank AG London Deutsche Bank to hedge part of their foreign currency risks.
Under the terms of the contracts, SSGPO and AoK are required to pay Deutsche Bank amounts of US$25 million and US$15 million, respectively, on a monthly basis up to December 2009.
Deutsche Bank is required to pay SSGPO and AoK on a monthly basis, Kazakhstani tenge at fixed forward rates up to December 2009.
The average forward rate on these contracts is 121.14 KZT US$1 2007: 120.88 KZT US$1.
In September 2007, these forward foreign exchange contracts were formally designated as hedge instruments to hedge the foreign exchange currency risk arising from related highly probable forecast transactions expected to occur on a monthly basis up to December 2009.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedge item is less than 12 months.
There is no non-current portion of the hedge as of December 2008.
The amount of net unrealised loss on the hedges taken to equity is US$21 million as of 31 December 2008 2007: US$17 million.
The net unrealised loss taken to equity on the forward foreign exchange contracts is recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the actual cash flows occur and the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.
The total amount of realised gain on cash flow hedges recognised in cost of sales is US$17 million for the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: US$4 million.
There were no significant ineffective cash flow hedges.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to partially hedge foreign exchange exposure.
Financial risk management is the responsibility of the treasury function which identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Treasury Policy outlines principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
Credit risk The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
The Group has credit insurance for the majority of its sales and credit limits are set by the credit insurance company for each customer.
For those sales where credit insurance is not available, the Group operates a policy of cash on delivery and letters of credit.
The Group regularly monitors its exposure to bad debts, in order to minimise their exposure.
In 2008 the top 10 customers as a proportion of the outstanding balances of the Groups trade receivables accounted for 51% 2007: 58%.
The Group has established relationships with a number of international and domestic banks in the areas in which the Group operates to diversify financial counterparty default risk.
During the year a mixture of bank deposits, liquidity funds, asset management funds and sovereign debt were used within the Groups investment portfolio to manage credit exposure.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Cash and cash equivalents 24 2,493 2,548 Trade and other receivables excluding prepaid expenses and taxes 23 769 830 Long-term deposits and restricted cash held by related parties 21 3 5 Financial assets 19 81 170 Loans receivable 20 72 35 Total maximum credit risk exposure 3,418 3,588 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 109 34.
Financial risk management continued Foreign currency risk The production costs are predominantly denominated in Kazakhstani tenge KZT and Russian roubles RUB while sales are denominated in US dollars US$.
The Group is therefore exposed to the risk that movements in exchange rates will affect both its net income and cash flows.
The Groups foreign currency exposure arises from: Highly probable forecast transactions sales purchases denominated in foreign currencies: and Monetary items mainly inter-company receivables, payables and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group is exposed to currency fluctuations through its normal operations.
The main exposure is to KZT US$ and approximately 25% of this exposure for 2008 was hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts which were already in place at the beginning of the year.
Management estimate that the hedge contracts effectively provide for an average rate of 120KZT US$1.
There were no additional foreign exchange hedges transacted during the year.
The forward exchange contracts entered into during 2007 were formally designated as hedges at 18 September 2007 and accordingly hedge accounting has been applied from that date.
The table below summarises the foreign currency exposure on the net monetary position of each Group entity against its respective functional currency, expressed in the Groups presentation currency.
In millions of US$ KZT US$ CAD EUR GBP RUB 1 At 31 December 2008 Kazakhstani entities KZT n a 1,140 12 13 Marketing and holding entities US$ 10 n a 6 321 4 UK management entities GBP 20 n a Russian entities RUB 34 n a 10 1,086 6 309 4 13 At 31 December 2007 Kazakhstani entities KZT n a 233 2 1 Marketing entities US$ n a 295 159 50 UK management entities GBP 11 1 n a 222 298 159 51 1 In 2008 inter-company balances were included in the analysis to fully reflect the Groups exposure to currency risk.
2007 comparatives do not include inter-company balances.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before income tax.
In millions of US$ KZT US$ CAD EUR GBP RUB At 31 December 2008 Total in the consolidated financial statements 10 1,086 6 309 4 14 Shift in the US exchange rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Increase in profit due to appreciation of US dollar 0.5 54.3 0.3 15.4 0.2 0.7 Decrease in profit due to depreciation of US dollar 0.5 54.3 0.3 15.4 0.2 0.7 At 31 December 2007 Total in the consolidated financial statements 222 298 159 51 Shift in the US exchange rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Increase in profit due to appreciation of US dollar n a 14.9 8.0 2.6 Decrease in profit due to depreciation of US dollar n a 14.9 8.0 2.6 The above tables exclude the impact of forward foreign exchange contracts which have been hedged.
Commodity price risk The Group generates most of its revenue from the sale of commodities, primarily ferrochrome, chrome ore, iron ore, alumina and aluminium.
Historically, the prices for these products have been volatile and have fluctuated widely in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, the performance of the global or regional economies and cyclicality in industries that are end users of these products.
Prices may also be affected by Government actions, including the imposition of tariffs and import duties, speculative trades, the development of product substitutes or replacements, recycling practices, an increase in capacity or an oversupply of the Groups products in its main markets.
These external factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it difficult to estimate future prices.
A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices would materially and adversely affect the Groups business and the financial results and cash flows of operations.
ENRC does not hedge its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in the price of its products.
110 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Financial risk management continued The table below sets out the sensitivity of the Groups underlying EBIDTA to changes in commodity prices: 5% reduction in sales price, relative to the average for 2008, In millions US$ would reduce underlying EBITDA by: High carbon ferrochrome 112 Chrome ore 18 Iron ore 72 Alumina 26 Aluminium 13 Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
These assets and liabilities are exposed to cash flow interest rate risk or fair value interest rate risk depending on whether they are subject to variable or fixed rates of interest.
The Groups significant interest bearing assets and liabilities are disclosed in notes 20, 23, 24, and 26.
The Group analyses its sensitivity to interest rates by movements of 1% and the pre-tax impact on the profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2008 is approximately US$17 million 2007: US$15 million.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
As at 31 December 2008, following the receipt of the proceeds from the IPO in 2007, the Group had a strong balance sheet and a conservative capital structure.
Going forward, the Group intends to maintain a capital structure in line with industrys norms and practices which will be achieved over a period of time, taking into account investment opportunities and availability of debt finance.
The Group considers the following balances as a part of its capital management.
As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2008 2007 Borrowings 26 727 1,424 Share capital 25 3,257 3,257 1 Reserves 4,915 2,457 1 Reserves include retained earnings, translation reserve, revaluation reserve of financial assets available-for-sale and hedge reserves.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to manage its debt level.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management means maintaining sufficient cash to finance the ongoing operating and investing activities of the Group.
In 2008, the Group did not make any new draw down under credit facilities 2007: US$1,374 million.
The table below analyses the Groups financial assets and liabilities which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groups based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
As at 31 December 2008 Less than Between 1 Between 2 After In millions of US$ 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Borrowings 374 355 14 5 Other non-current liabilities 5 Trade and other payables 411 Cash and cash equivalents 2,493 Loans receivable 4 4 18 52 Financial assets 81 Trade and other receivables excluding prepaid expenses and advances 955 Net position 2,748 351 4 42 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 111 34.
Financial risk management continued As at 31 December 2007 Less than Between 1 Between 2 After In millions of US$ 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Borrowings 359 346 689 32 Trade and other payables 351 Cash and cash equivalents 2,548 Loans receivable 28 4 3 Financial assets at fair value through the income statement 170 Trade and other receivables excluding prepaid expenses and advances 884 Net position 2,920 342 686 32 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groups based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, translated at year end exchange rates.
As at 31 December 2008 2007 Less than Less than Between 1 In millions of US$ 1 year 1 year and 2 years Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge Outflow 480 480 480 1 Inflow 481 481 483 1 Undiscounted cash flows inflows translated at forward rates prevailing at year end are US$426 million 2007: US$890 million.
Acquisition of subsidiaries and joint venture Serov On 3 April 2008 a controlling interest in the Serov group and certain related entities Serov see below was acquired by the Group.
The purchase price was US$210 million.
Serovs principal activity comprises the mining of chrome ore, processing and sale of ferroalloys.
The acquisition of Serov consisted of the following ownership interests: Effective ownership interest Serov Ferroalloy Plant JSC 95.3% Saranovskaya Mine Rudnaya JSC 88.2% Serov Metalconcentrate Works JSC 97.7% Industrial Metals LLC 100.0% IMR Marketing AG 100.0% DDK Services Limited 100.0% Since the date of acquisition up to 31 December 2008, Serov contributed US$496 million of revenue and US$156 million of profit after tax.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2008, Serov would have recorded US$632 million of revenue and profit after tax of US$197 million.
If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2008, Group consolidated revenue and Group consolidated profit after tax for the year ended 31 December 2008 would have been, respectively, US$6,917 million and US$2,726 million.
Details of the net assets acquired and goodwill are as follows: In millions of US$ Purchase consideration: Cash paid 210 Direct costs related to the acquisition 2 Total purchase consideration 212 Fair value of net identifiable assets acquired see below 136 Goodwill 76 Goodwill to the amount of US$67 million was allocated to Kazchrome, in the Ferroalloys Division, on the basis of economic benefits arising from the assets acquired.
The goodwill is attributable to the value derived by the Group from additional pricing power in the low-carbon ferroalloys market.
112 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35.
Acquisition of subsidiaries and joint venture continued The assets and liabilities arising from the acquisition are as follows: Acquirees carrying In millions of US$ amount Fair value Cash and cash equivalents 40 40 Property, plant and equipment 67 128 Inventories 40 79 Trade and other receivables 83 69 Borrowings 9 9 Trade and other payables refer note 5 93 140 Deferred tax assets liabilities, net 1 20 Net assets 129 147 Minority interest 4 11 Net identifiable assets acquired 125 136 Outflow of cash to acquire business, net of cash acquired: In millions of US$ Cash consideration paid in 2007 100 Cash consideration paid in 2008 110 Direct costs relating to the acquisition 2 Cash and cash equivalents in subsidiary acquired 40 Cash outflow on acquisition in 2007 100 Cash outflow on acquisition in 2008 72 Total cash outflow on acquisition 172 Xinjiang Tuoli Taihang Ferro-Alloy Co. Tuoli In October 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of a 50% interest in Tuoli, a Chinese ferroalloys producer, for a cash consideration of US$15 million.
The Group has consolidated Tuoli, reflecting the control it exercises over the operations.
Net assets acquired were US$7 million: this is equivalent to the fair values.
Goodwill in the amount of US$8 million was allocated to Kazchrome, in the Ferroalloys Division, on the basis of economic benefits arising from the assets acquired.
Xinjiang Tuoli Taihang Ferro-Alloy Co. was later renamed Xinjiang Tuoli ENRC Taihang Chrome Co. Ltd. Metallurg LLP Metallurg On 1 October 2008 the Group acquired 100% of Metallurg, an unlisted company based in the Republic of Kazakhstan dealing with metal scrap trading, for a cash consideration of US$1 million.
On acquisition the Group recognised US$1 million of goodwill.
Bahia Minerals BV BML On 19 May 2008, the Group entered into a 50 50 joint venture agreement with Ardila Investments NV Ardila Investments to form the joint venture BML.
BML owns, amongst other immaterial subsidiaries, 100% of Bahia Minerao Limitada, a company involved in development of an iron ore deposit in Brazil, for a consideration of US$306 million.
The Group accounted for its investment in BML using equity accounting in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
In the period since acquisition, the movement in the Groups investment in the joint venture is as follows: In millions of US$ 2008 Acquisition of joint venture 306 Costs directly attributable to acquisition of joint venture 17 Share of loss 12 Share of movement in translation reserve 2 Total investments in joint venture 313 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 113 35.
Acquisition of subsidiaries and joint venture continued The feasibility study for the extraction of the iron ore deposit is currently being undertaken and is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2009.
On 19 May 2008, the Group entered into a Shareholder Loan Agreement with BML to finance capital and operating expenditure.
Under this agreement, the Group loaned US$34 million to BML to match loans granted by Ardila Investments prior to the joint venture being established.
The Shareholder Loan Agreement provides a further loan facility to BML of which the drawn down amount at 31 December 2008 is US$11 million.
Both loans are reported as related party loans refer note 20 and are interest free at 31 December 2008.
The loans are repayable out of the profits and or the free cash flows of BML and in any event on the date falling nine years after the date of the Shareholder Loan Agreement.
On 19 May 2008, the Group provided a secured loan facility of up to US$400 million to Ardila Investments to finance their share of certain capital and operating expenditure of BML.
The facility, which is secured by Ardila Investments shares in BML, is available to 31 December 2009, bears interest at LIBOR plus 4.5% per annum and is repayable over the 3 years following the first draw down under the facility August 2008.
As at 31 December 2008, US$11 million has been drawn down against this facility and is reported as loans receivable from third party refer note 20.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Profit for the period 2,684 814 Add: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 311 303 Net losses on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 32 Costs incurred in relation to the IPO 182 Finance costs, including foreign exchange currency loss on external and inter-company debt, cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 143 177 Share of loss of joint ventures 12 Income tax expense 1,143 507 Less: Finance income including foreign exchange currency gain on external and inter-company debt, cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 132 97 1 Underlying EBITDA 4,161 1,918 Divide by: Revenue 6,823 4,106 Underlying EBITDA margin 61.0% 46.7% Profit for the period 2,684 814 Add: Net losses on derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting 32 Costs incurred in relation to the IPO 182 Finance costs, including foreign exchange currency loss on external and inter-company debt, cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 143 177 Share of loss of joint ventures 12 Income tax expense 1,143 507 Less: Finance income including foreign exchange currency gain on external and inter-company debt, cash and cash equivalents and term deposits 132 97 Underlying EBIT 3,850 1,615 Divide by: 2 Capital employed weighted average Borrowings 1,019 1,393 Equity including minority interest 7,088 2,614 Return on capital employed 47.5% 40.3% 1 Incremental underlying EBITDA contribution from Serov and the new aluminium smelter amounted to US$199 million and US$76 million, respectively.
2 The capital employed used in this calculation is a three point average based on the opening and closing balance sheet for each year plus the half-year interim balance sheet.
114 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Revenue 6,823 4,106 Less: 3 Serov revenue 496 3 Tuoli revenue 6 Other entities acquired or set up in 2008 1 New aluminium smelter sales revenue 280 Like-for-like revenue 6,040 4,103 2008 v 2007 Increase in like-for-like revenue 1,937 % increase in like-for-like revenue 47.2% Cost of sales 2,088 1,701 Less: Serov cost of sales 155 Tuoli cost of sales 11 New aluminium smelter cost of sales 103 3 Like-for-like cost of sales 1,819 1,698 2008 v 2007 Increase in like-for-like cost of sales 121 % increase in like-for-like cost of sales 7.1% Cost of sales 2,088 1,701 Distribution costs 431 373 Selling, general and administrative expenses 422 606 Net other operating expenses 32 5 Total costs 2,973 2,685 Less: 4 Exceptional items 182 Serov total costs 186 2 Tuoli total costs 26 Other entities acquired or set up in 2008 1 New aluminium smelter sales total costs 140 19 Like-for-like total costs 2,620 2,482 2008 v 2007 Increase in like-for-like total costs 138 % increase in like-for-like total costs 5.6% 5 Cost of sales principal operating Divisions 2,229 1,684 Less: Serov cost of sales 155 Tuoli cost of sales 11 New aluminium smelter cost of sales 103 3 Like-for-like cost of sales principal operating Divisions 1,960 1,681 2008 v. 2007 Increase in like-for-like total cost of sales principal operating Divisions 279 % increase in like-for-like total cost of sales principal operating Divisions 16.6% 3 In 2007 DDK Trading AG was acting as a trading agent for sales of Serovs ferroalloys and therefore excluded from 2007.
4 Exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2007 represented costs expensed in relation to the IPO and consisted of staff costs, professional and other services.
5 The principal operating Divisions comprise of Ferroalloys, Iron Ore, Alumina and Aluminium and Energy.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 115 36.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures continued As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2008 2007 Gross available funds Cash and cash equivalents 2,493 2,548 Term deposits 194 203 Financial assets 81 170 Total gross available funds 2,768 2,921 Borrowings current 372 1,065 Borrowings non-current 355 359 Total net available funds 2,041 1,497 Net cash Cash and cash equivalents 2,493 2,548 Borrowings current 372 1,065 Borrowings non-current 355 359 Total net cash 1,766 1,124 37.
Events after the balance sheet date Acquisition of 100% of ENRC PMZ LLP ENRC PMZ On 8 January 2009 the Group acquired a 100% interest in ENRC PMZ LLP, an unlisted company based in the Republic of Kazakhstan, for a cash consideration of US$20 million.
ENRC PMZ owns 100% interest in Pavlodar Machinery Plant JSC, a producer of overhead factory cranes in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
ENRC PMZ was acquired from the Founder Shareholders of ENRC.
Purchase of an option to acquire 70% interest in Masalskoe GOK LLP Masalskoe On 8 January 2009 the Group purchased an option, for a cash consideration of US$10 million, from a company owned by Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev, one of the Groups non-executive Directors, to acquire a 70% interest Offered Interest in Masalskoe GOK LLP.
Masalskoe is a company with the rights for exploration and production of iron ore of the Masalskoe deposit in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Consideration paid for the option will be used by Masalskoe to finance its exploration works during the eight months from the date of payment.
Upon completion of this period, the Group will be provided with the exploration results and may exercise the call option at any time during the four month period from the completion of exploration works and provision of all documents supporting the exploration results.
The price payable on the exercise of the call option is US$100 million.
The purchase price is subject to change should the results of exploration works reveal that the available reserves deviate by more than 10% from the amount stipulated in the contract.
If the parties disagree with the results of a new appraisal conducted by an independent expert, either of them may refuse to complete the sale of the Offered Interest.
In such an event, the US$10 million is not refundable, however, the Group shall instead receive an interest in Masalskoe equivalent to the share of US$10 million in the value of the Offered Interest.
Acquisition of 25% of Shubarkol Komir Joint Stock Company Shubarkol On 16 February 2009 the Group acquired a 25% interest in Shubarkol Komir JSC, a major semi-coke and thermal coal producer in Kazakhstan, for a cash consideration of US$200 million.
Shubarkol is majority owned by Eurasian Finance-Industrial Company JSC EFIC, a private company wholly-owned by the three Founder Shareholders of ENRC who together hold 43.77% of the Groups issued share capital.
The acquisition constitutes a smaller related party transaction for the purposes of the Listing Rules of the FSA.
In connection with the acquisition, the Group has entered into an off-take agreement with Shubarkol, secured a seat on Shubarkols board and entered into a shareholders agreement with EFIC.
In addition the Group has a right of first refusal, combined with a call option, over all or part of the remaining shares in Shubarkol held by EFIC.
The call option is exercisable at the Groups discretion at any time until 31 January 2011 and is expected to be subject to the approval of the Groups shareholders with any required regulatory approvals having been obtained.
The price payable on any exercise of the call option is the aggregate value of the shares to be transferred, assuming Shubarkol has a total value of US$800 million on a fully diluted basis, less any net debt at the time of the transfer.
The Groups management believes that the transaction, agreed on an arms length basis, creates value for all of the Groups shareholders.
The 25% interest in Shubarkol was acquired through a public auction process on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange KASE.
The settlement of the shares through KASE was completed on 19 February 2009.
116 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 37.
Events after the balance sheet date continued Devaluation of Kazakhstani tenge At the beginning of February 2009 the Kazakhstani tenge was devalued by about 25% to approximately KZT150 US$1.
A substantial proportion of the Groups costs are in tenge.
Buyout of Serov minority interest In January and March 2009 the Group completed a buyout of minority interest in Serov Ferroalloy Plant and Saranovskaya Mine Rudnaya for a cash consideration of US$4 million and US$5 million, respectively.
As a result, the Groups interest in Serov Ferroalloy Plant and Saranovskaya Mine Rudnaya increased to 99.29% and 98.77%, respectively.
2008 final dividend For 2008 the Board has recommended a final dividend of 19 US cents per share amounting to US$245 million, which will be paid on Wednesday, 17 June 2009, to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 April 2009.
Principal subsidiaries A list of the principal subsidiaries consolidated during the period is set out below: % of ownership Years ended 31 December Subsidiary Principal activity Country of incorporation 2008 2007 Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC AoK Mining and processing of raw materials Kazakhstan 96.61 96.61 Kazsoda LLP Processing of raw materials Kazakhstan 100.00 Rudnenskiy Cement Plant LLP Processing of raw materials Kazakhstan 100.00 Serov Ferroalloy Plant JSC Metals processing Russian Federation 95.25 Xinjiang Tuoli ENRC Taihang Chrome Co. Ltd Metals pocessing China 50.00 Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC KAS Metals processing Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 Serov Metalconcentrate Works JSC Metals processing Russian Federation 97.67 TNC Kazchrome JSC Kazchrome Mining Kazakhstan 98.31 98.31 SSGPO JSC SSGPO Mining Kazakhstan 98.15 98.15 Zhairemsky GOK JSC Mining Kazakhstan 99.84 99.84 Saranovskaya Mine Rudnaya JSC Mining Russian Federation 88.17 Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC EEC Power generation Kazakhstan 98.41 98.41 ENRC Leasing BV Leasing Netherlands 100.00 100.00 ENRC NV Holding company Netherlands 100.00 100.00 Corica AG Holding company Switzerland 100.00 100.00 Corporate Fund ENRC Komek Charity Kazakhstan 100.00 Company Zhol Zhondeushy LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 MEK Transsystema LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 TransCom LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 TransRem Wagon LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 RemPut Ltd. LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 Universal Service LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 RemZholService LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 Bereke 2004 LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 ENRC Logistics LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 Zhana Temir Zhol LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Marketing AG Sales and marketing Switzerland 100.00 100.00 ENRC Marketing LLP Sales and marketing Kazakhstan 100.00 100.00 DDK Trading AG Sales and marketing Switzerland 100.00 100.00 Metallurg LLP Sales and marketing Kazakhstan 100.00 Industrial Metals LLC Sales and marketing Russian Federation 100.00 ENRC Finance Limited Treasury and holding company United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 ENRC Management UK Limited Group managing company United Kingdom 100.00 100.00 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
