Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 117 Parent Company Independent Auditors Report We have audited the parent company financial statements of Eurasian Basis of audit opinion Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended 31 December We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 2008 which comprise the Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These parent company financial audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes Report that is described as having been audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended to the parent companys circumstances, consistently applied and 31 December 2008. adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in the parent company financial statements and the part of the and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance Remuneration Report to be audited.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the Opinion opinion, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys In our opinion: members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
31 December 2008: the parent company financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the parent company financial statements.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent  LLP company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans London Statement, the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officers 8 April 2009 Statement, the Business Review and the Corporate Governance Report that is cross-referred from the Business Review Section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the parent company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Statement, the Business Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and all other information referred to on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
