Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008 1.
Corporate information Experian Group Limited the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of the Experian Group, is incorporated and registered in Jersey under Jersey Companies Law as a public company limited by shares.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Experian is a business services group.
The consolidated financial statements of Experian Group Limited and its subsidiary undertakings Experian or the Group were approved by the Board on 20 May 2008.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The Group financial statements are presented in US Dollars as this is the most representative currency of the Groups operations.
The financial statements are rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis modified for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal exchange rates used in preparing the Group financial statements are set out in note 6.
In compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the financial statements of the Company are included within the Group annual report and they are set out on pages 132 to 141.
These are presented in Sterling as that is the functional currency of the Company.
In determining its functional currency, the directors have taken account of the fact that the assets and liabilities and cash flows of Experian Group Limited are primarily denominated in Sterling.
The Company has elected to prepare its financial statements under UK accounting standards.
The Group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
These are those standards, subsequent amendments and related interpretations issued and adopted by the IASB that have been endorsed by the EU.
Although the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey, the Group financial statements include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
As indicated below, during the year ended 31 March 2008, there have been a number of new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2007.
None of these has had a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group for the year under review although, in accordance with the requirement of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, gains and losses on fair value hedges are now reported on a gross basis in the Group income statement.
Comparative figures have been restated and the effect is to increase financing income and financing expense for the year ended 31 March 2007 by US$55m.
In addition pension assets and liabilities are now reported separately in the Group balance sheet where there is no right of offset and accordingly liabilities of US$50m are now reported as retirement benefit obligations at 31 March 2008.
Comparative figures have been restated and the effect is to increase non-current assets and non-current liabilities at 31 March 2007 by US$56m.
With these exceptions, the financial information has accordingly been prepared on a consistent basis with that reported for the year ended 31 March 2007 although, following the acquisition of a 70% stake in Serasa during the year, the segmental information presented in respect of the Americas in note 5 is now further analysed to show North and Latin America as separate segments.
In connection with the acquisition of the 70% stake in Serasa, the Group entered into a put call option agreement over the remaining shares held by the minority shareholders.
In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement the put element is shown as a liability stated at the net present value of the expected future payments and in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements this liability is shown as a non-current financial liability.
The net present value of the put option was reassessed at 31 March 2008 and the change since the date of acquisition has been recognised in the Group income statement within finance income.
On 10 October 2006, the separation of Experian and Home Retail Group was completed by way of demerger.
As part of the demerger, the Company became the ultimate holding company of GUS plc now Experian Finance plc and related subsidiaries and shares in GUS plc ceased to be listed on the London Stock Exchange on 6 October 2006.
Trading of shares in the Company on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 11 October 2006.
As reported last year, the demerger transaction was accounted for using the principles of merger accounting set out in FRS 6 Acquisitions and Mergers and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
This policy, which does not conflict with IFRS, reflected the economic substance of the transaction.
The distribution to GUS plc shareholders of shares in Home Retail Group plc was accounted for as a dividend in specie.
Recent accounting developments IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the complementary amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007 and accordingly have been adopted by the Group during the year.
Their effect is to revise and enhance previous disclosures required by IAS 32 and IAS 30 Disclosures in the Financial Statements of Banks and Similar Financial Institutions but they have no material effect on the results and net assets of the Group.
As indicated above, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, gains and losses on fair value hedges are now reported on a gross basis in the Group income statement and comparative figures have been restated.
Revised and enhanced disclosures have been given in these financial statements in respect of the year ended 31 March 2008 and comparative information has been restated as appropriate.
The qualitative analysis required to be given in connection with IFRS 7 is set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
70 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued The adoption of IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2, IFRIC 9 Re-assessment of embedded derivatives, IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment and IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions which became effective during the year has had no material effect on the results and net assets of the Group.
Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
As required by IFRS 3 all business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 31 March 2008.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is given in note Q to the parent company financial statements.
Equity minority interests The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with minority interests as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Disposals to minority interests result in gains and losses for the Group that are recorded in the Group income statement.
Purchases from minority interests result in goodwill, being the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally achieved by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates and loans made to associates are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition after tax profits or losses is recognised in the Group income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity is recognised in the Groups equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts, including the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the year in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the work.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the maintenance period.
Where a single arrangement comprises a number of individual elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues are allocated amongst the individual elements based on an estimate of the fair value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight line basis over the contract period.
Foreign currency translation Presentation currency The Groups financial statements are presented in US Dollars.
Experian Annual Report 2008 71 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group entity at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to net financing costs in the Group income statement except when deferred in equity, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary available for sale financial assets are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss in equity.
Group undertakings The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US Dollars are translated into US Dollars as follows: l Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date: l Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and l All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in entities whose functional currency is not the US Dollar, and of borrowings and other currency instruments, primarily foreign exchange contracts, designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
When such an entity is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of such entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the entities and are translated at the closing rate.
Share-based payments IFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies to equity instruments, such as share options, granted since 7 November 2002.
The Group elected to adopt full retrospective application of the standard on all share options and awards granted to employees before 7 November 2002 but not vested at the date of transition to IFRS 1 April 2004.
The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based compensation plans.
These include awards in respect of shares in the Company made at or after demerger together with awards previously made in respect of shares in GUS plc which were rolled over into awards in respect of shares in the Company at demerger.
The fair value of options and shares granted is recognised as an expense in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period after taking into account the Groups best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revises the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is separately recognised in the balance sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by geographical segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
72 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable, separable or arise from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These criteria include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of other intangible assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised over those lives.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-inuse, which is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Research expenditure is charged in the Group income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Databases and computer software Databases Capitalised databases comprise the fair value of databases acquired as part of a business combination or the data purchase and data capture costs of internally developed databases.
Databases are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to seven years.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Computer software licences are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to five years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets are amortised on a straight line basis over three to five years.
Other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Acquisition intangibles Trademarks and licences Trademarks and licences are carried at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over their contractual lives, up to a maximum period of 20 years.
Trade names Legally protected or otherwise separable trade names acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to fourteen years based on managements expectations to retain trade names within the business.
Customer relationships Contractual and non-contractual customer relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eighteen years based on managements estimates of the average lives of customer relationships.
Completed technology Completed technology acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years based on the expected life of the asset.
Experian Annual Report 2008 73 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the lower of the useful life and period of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to depreciate the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: l Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: l Leasehold premises with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: and l Plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over two to ten years according to the estimated life of the asset.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in four categories: loans and receivables, derivatives used for hedging, assets at fair value through the profit and loss account and available for sale.
The classification is determined at initial recognition and depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities more than 12 months after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in the other financial asset categories.
Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and disposals of such assets are accounted for at settlement date.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment of such assets, the gains and losses in equity are recycled through the income statement.
Gains and losses recognised on disposal exclude dividend and interest income.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence to suggest that available for sale financial assets are impaired.
In the case of equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired.
If any such evidence exists, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Group income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Group income statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed through the Group income statement.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value original invoice amount and subsequently measured at this value less any provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Such evidence is based primarily on the pattern of cash received compared to the terms upon which the trade receivable is contracted.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the value of estimated future cash flows.
Any charge or credit in respect of such provisions is recognised in the Group income statement within administrative expenses.
The cost of any irrecoverable trade receivables is recognised in the Group income statement immediately within administrative expenses.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the Group income statement within administrative expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
74 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are measured at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Incremental borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain obligations, including social security obligations, in respect of share-based payments.
Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
These are recognised as assets or liabilities as appropriate.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at cost, being the fair value at the date a contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Depending on the type of derivative financial instrument, fair value calculation techniques include, but are not limited to, quoted market value, present value of estimated future cash flows of which the valuation of interest rate swaps is an example and exchange rates at the balance sheet date of which the valuation of foreign exchange contracts is an example.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: l Fair value hedges hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment: or l Cash flow hedges hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: or l Net investment hedges hedges of net investments in operations whose functional currency is not the US Dollar.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are shown in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Derivative assets and liabilities are classified as non-current unless they mature within 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net financing costs over the period of the contract together with the interest differential reflected in foreign exchange contracts.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the Group income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineffective portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net financing costs in the Group income statement.
Experian Annual Report 2008 75 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately within cost of sales or operating expenses, as appropriate, in the Group income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the Group income statement in the period when the hedged item will impact the Group income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Group income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is transferred immediately to the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge of a net investment in an entity whose functional currency is not the US Dollar is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in net financing costs in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group income statement when the entity is disposed of.
Non-hedging derivatives Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Costs in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with social security obligations on employee share incentive schemes are charged as an employment cost: other changes are charged within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the Group income statement.
Fair value estimation The fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities is determined by using market data and established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows which are CGUs.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are carried at amortised cost.
Contingent consideration Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the cost of the acquisition initially recorded includes a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of the acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable in the future.
The proceeds are adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to debtors, and profit and loss on disposal, until the ultimate outcome is known.
76 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
However, if the deferred tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when: l The Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: and l It is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and l The amount has been reliably estimated.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables.
The interest element of the lease payments is charged in the Group income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each year.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the period of the lease.
Employee benefits Defined benefit pension arrangements funded schemes The retirement benefit assets recognised in the Group balance sheet comprise the fair value of plan assets of funded schemes less the present value of the related defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields available at the assessment date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Experian Annual Report 2008 77 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Group income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation less the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
Defined benefit pension arrangements unfunded schemes Unfunded pension obligations are determined in accordance with the principles used In respect of the funded arrangements but are disclosed in the Group balance sheet within retirement benefit obligations.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The assets of defined contribution schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions paid by the Group to these funds in respect of the year.
Post-retirement healthcare obligations The Group operates schemes which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependent relatives.
The principal scheme relates to former employees in the UK and, under this scheme, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare insurance for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
Such obligations are disclosed in the Group balance sheet within retirement benefit obligations.
The expected cost of these benefits is calculated using an actuarial methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension arrangements.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
The obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Minority interests in equity The minority interests in equity in the Group balance sheet represent the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The movement in the year comprises the profit attributable to such interests together with any dividends paid, movements in respect of corporate transactions and related exchange differences.
Where put call option agreements are in place in respect of shares held by the minority shareholders, the put element of the liability is measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and is stated at the net present value of the expected future payments.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation this liability is shown as a non-current financial liability in the Group balance sheet.
The change in the net present value of such options in the year is recognised in the Group income statement within finance expense.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact on the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Pension benefits The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Group balance sheet and the Group income statement.
78 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the balance sheet date and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the balance sheet date.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the discount rate, the Group has considered the prevailing market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant balance sheet dates and additional information is disclosed in note 27.
Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgement to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The assumptions in respect of the valuation of the put option associated with the remaining 30% stake of Serasa are set out in note 29 d. Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by geographical segment.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is generally determined based on value-in-use calculations, which require the use of cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management, looking forward up to five years.
Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the businesses in which the segment operates.
In view of the significance of the Serasa acquisition on the Latin American segment goodwill, the impairment review was based on the fair value evidenced by that transaction.
Key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations for all other CGUs are: l Budgeted gross margin: l Weighted average real growth rate of 2.25% used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budget period: and l Pre-tax discount rate of 11.4% applied to the pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management determines budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports.
The discount rates used reflect the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8%.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity settled share-based payment arrangements in existence.
The assumptions used in determining the amounts charged in the Group income statement include judgements in respect of performance conditions and length of service together with future share prices, dividend and interest yields and exercise patterns.
Critical judgements Management has made certain judgements in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies set out above that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
These include the classification of transactions between the Group income statement and the Group balance sheet.
These accounting policy descriptions indicate where judgement needs exercising.
The most significant of these judgements is in respect of intangible assets where certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made certain judgements and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on uncertain judgements about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between three and seven years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated software, and between two and 20 years for acquisition intangibles.
Experian Annual Report 2008 79 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Recent accounting developments The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2008: l IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations : l IFRS 8 Operating segments: l IAS 23 Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs : l IAS 27 Revised Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate : l IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements : l IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes : l IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
These standards are still subject to adoption by the EU.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations proposes amendments to accounting for business combinations and the treatment of associated transaction costs and accordingly will impact on the treatment of future acquisitions in the financial statements.
With that exception, these accounting standards, amendments and interpretations are not expected to have a material effect on the results and net assets of the Group.
A number of the developments will lead to additional disclosures.
Use of non-GAAP measures The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by the Group: Benchmark profit before tax Benchmark PBT Benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements and taxation.
It includes the Groups share of associates pre-tax profit.
Earnings before interest and tax EBIT EBIT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, goodwill impairments, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, net financing costs and taxation.
Benchmark earnings per share Benchmark EPS Benchmark EPS represents Benchmark PBT less attributable taxation and minority interests divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Exceptional items The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items are those arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses, closure costs of major business units or costs of significant restructuring programmes.
All other restructuring costs are charged against EBIT in the segments in which they are incurred.
Net debt Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents.
Total debt includes loans and borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging loans and borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases.
Interest payable on borrowings is excluded from net debt.
80 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 3.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group also ensures surplus funds are managed and controlled in a prudent manner which will protect capital sums invested and ensure adequate short-term liquidity, whist maximising returns.
Prior to the demerger in October 2006, the Group transacted primarily in Sterling.
The hedging and risk management strategies pursued for the years then ended reflected this.
Policies adopted since demerger reflect the increased significance of the Groups US Dollar operations.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, entities with different functional currencies.
The Group manages such risk, primarily within entities whose functional currencies are Sterling, by borrowing in the relevant foreign currencies and using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The principal transaction exposures are to the US Dollar and the Euro.
The Group has investments in entities with other functional currencies, whose net assets are exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
In order to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on the value of such entities, the Group has a policy of borrowing in US Dollars and Euros, as well as in Sterling and of entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies.
At 31 March 2008, if the US Dollar had strengthened weakened by 6% 2007: 8% against Sterling, with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$1m 2007: n a higher lower, and other components of equity would have been unchanged.
At 31 March 2008, if the Euro had strengthened weakened by 3% 2007: 2% against Sterling, with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been unchanged 2007: US$1m higher lower, and other components of equity would have been unchanged.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from its net debt and the portions thereof at variable rates which expose the Group to such risk.
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 30% and 70% of net debt at rates that are fixed for more than one year.
The Groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed and floating rate liabilities.
The Group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
At 31 March 2008, if interest rates on US Dollar denominated net debt had been 1.4% 2007: 1.4% higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$8m 2007: US$12m lower higher, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on deposits and floating rate borrowings.
At 31 March 2008, if interest rates on Sterling denominated net debt had been 0.4% 2007: 0.4% higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$8m 2007: US$8m lower higher, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on deposits and floating rate borrowings.
At 31 March 2008, if interest rates on Brazilian Real denominated net debt had been 2.4% 2007: 1.2% higher lower, with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$1m 2007: n a lower higher, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on deposits and floating rate borrowings.
At 31 March 2008, if interest rates on Euro denominated net debt had been 0.7% 2007: 0.4% higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit for the financial year would have been US$3m 2007: US$1m lower higher, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on deposits and floating rate borrowings.
Experian Annual Report 2008 81 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 3.
Financial risk management continued Price risk The Group is exposed to price risk in connection with investments classified on the balance sheet as available for sale financial assets.
Such investments are primarily held to provide security in connection with unfunded pension obligations and are managed by independent fund managers who seek to mitigate such risk by diversification of the portfolio.
At 31 March 2008, if the relevant stock market and other indices had been 10% higher lower with all other variables held constant, no further gains losses would have been recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Credit risk In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk, which results from the non-performance of contractual agreements on the part of the contract party.
This credit risk is minimised by a policy under which the Group only enters into such contracts with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored regularly.
The general credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
No credit limits were exceeded during the year and the Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from non-performance by these counterparties.
At the balance sheet date trade receivables with financial institutions accounted for some 41% 2007: 40% of total trade receivables in the UK and some 38% 2007: 39% of total trade receivables in the US.
The remaining balances are distributed across multiple industries and geographies.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk of such financial assets is represented by the carrying value of the asset net of any applicable provision for impairment.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains long-term committed facilities that are managed to ensure it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expansions.
The Group monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups net debt including projected cash flows and the level of committed facilities necessary to meet these.
Details of the facilities available to the Group and their utilisation at the balance sheet date are given in note 24.
Maturity analyses for financial liabilities are given in note 30.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives in managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce net debt.
As part of its internal reporting processes the Group monitors capital employed by geographical segment.
For this purpose, capital employed excludes net debt and taxation balances.
The Group manages its working capital in order to meet its target for the conversion of EBIT into operating cash flow.
Segmental information A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment and is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
There is no material impact from inter-segment transactions on the Groups results.
82 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 5.
Segmental information continued Total segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They exclude tax assets, cash, investments and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings which are reported at a Group level only.
Total segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities, including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions.
They exclude tax liabilities, borrowings and related hedging derivatives and the net present value of the put option in respect of the Serasa minority which are reported at a Group level only.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
The primary and secondary segmental reporting formats for Experian are outlined below.
In addition the segmental information in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007 included Home Retail Group as a discontinued operation.
Additional information in respect of discontinued operations is shown in note 12.
Primary reporting format for Experian geographical segments At 31 March 2008, Experian is organised on a worldwide basis into four core geographies: l North America: l Latin America: l UK & Ireland: and l Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA Asia Pacific.
In addition unallocated corporate head office costs, which include costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions, are reported as Central activities.
Secondary reporting format for Experian business segments Experian operates across four key business segments: l Credit Services: l Decision Analytics: l Marketing Services: and l Interactive.
Credit Services acquires, processes and manages large and complex databases containing the credit histories of consumers and businesses and also operates business processing outsourcing services, mainly in France, helping banks and other clients with back office functions.
Decision Analytics builds on the Credit Services database information and helps clients by applying analytical tools and software to convert data held internally and other data into usable business information.
Marketing Services helps clients to acquire new customers and to manage their relationships with existing customers.
By appending hundreds of characteristics to the credit and marketing data held in databases, Marketing Services provides clients with information designed to assist them in matching the right offer or product to the relevant customer using the most appropriate communication channels.
Interactive helps customers to understand and manage their own financial information and assets as well as to make more informed purchasing decisions in areas such as financial services, shopping and education and to connect them with companies over the Internet.
Experian Annual Report 2008 83 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued Geographical segments 2008 a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2008 North Latin UK & EMEA Central Total 1 1 2 America America Ireland Asia Pacific activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 3 Revenue from external customers 2,061 324 1,024 721 4,130 Profit Operating profit loss 473 44 155 58 76 654 Net financing costs 155 155 Share of post-tax profits of associates 49 1 50 Profit loss before tax 522 44 155 59 231 549 Group tax expense 97 Profit for the financial year 452 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax EBIT 608 75 232 87 57 945 Net interest 126 126 Benchmark PBT 608 75 232 87 183 819 Exceptional items note 9 12 28 17 6 63 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 48 31 35 7 121 Goodwill adjustment 2 2 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 18 14 4 13 49 Financing fair value remeasurements 29 29 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 6 6 Profit loss before tax 522 44 155 59 231 549 1.
As indicated in note 2, an additional segment has been included for the year ended 31 March 2008 to report activity in Latin America.
The segmental information for the year ended 31 March 2008 is in respect of continuing operations.
There were no discontinued operations, as defined by IFRS, during the year.
Revenue from external customers arose principally from the provision of services.
b Balance sheet at 31 March 2008 North Latin UK & EMEA Central Total 1 1 2 America America Ireland Asia Pacific activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total segment assets 2,848 1,776 1,368 890 387 7,269 Total segment liabilities 496 138 382 328 288 1,632 Segment net assets 2,352 1,638 986 562 99 5,637 Net present value of put option in respect of Serasa minority interest 583 Net debt 2,699 Tax 238 Group net assets 2,117 1.
As indicated in note 2, an additional segment has been included for 31 March 2008 to report activity in Latin America.
Segment net assets for Central activities represents corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and derivative assets and liabilities.
84 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 5.
Segmental information continued c Other financial information North Latin UK & EMEA Central Total 1 1 America America Ireland Asia Pacific activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Benchmark PBT is stated after charging: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 42 12 30 14 3 101 Amortisation of intangible assets other than acquisition intangibles 104 26 33 24 187 Benchmark PBT includes: Share of profit of associates 49 1 50 Segment net assets includes: Goodwill 1,474 1,033 711 387 3,605 Investments in associates 294 1 295 Capital expenditure 164 50 72 54 4 344 1.
Experian Annual Report 2008 85 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued Geographical segments 2007 a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2007 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Central Total Discontinued Total 1 1 2 America America Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 3 Revenue Total revenue 1,989 5 907 591 3,492 5,468 8,960 4 Inter-segment revenue 11 11 11 Revenue from external customers 1,989 5 896 591 3,481 5,468 8,949 Profit Operating profit loss 436 4 176 68 203 473 212 685 Net financing income costs 146 146 16 130 Share of post-tax profits of associates 67 67 67 Profit loss before tax 503 4 176 68 349 394 228 622 Group tax expense 68 91 159 Profit for the financial year 326 137 463 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Central Total 1 1 America America Ireland Asia Pacific activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m EBIT 566 4 236 74 47 825 Net interest 111 111 Benchmark PBT 566 4 236 74 158 714 Exceptional items note 9 15 26 151 162 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 45 27 4 76 Goodwill adjustment 14 14 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 10 7 2 5 24 Financing fair value remeasurements 35 35 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 9 9 Profit loss before tax 503 4 176 68 349 394 1.
As indicated in note 2, the segmental information presented in respect of the Americas for the year ended 31 March 2007 is now further analysed to show North and Latin America as separate segments.
Additional information on discontinued operations, which comprise Home Retail Group, together with a tax charge in respect of disposals, is shown in note 12.
The results of discontinued operations are in respect of businesses operating within the UK & Ireland geographical segment.
Revenue from continuing operations arose principally from the provision of services.
Revenue from discontinued operations arose principally from the sale of goods.
Revenue within the UK & Ireland geographical segment includes US$11m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued operations.
Inter-segment revenue represents the provision of services between Experian and discontinued operations.
b Balance sheet at 31 March 2007 North Latin UK & EMEA Central Total 1 1 2 America America Ireland Asia Pacific activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total segment assets 2,771 5 1,092 614 420 4,902 Total segment liabilities 534 1 318 195 225 1,273 Segment net assets 2,237 4 774 419 195 3,629 Net debt 1,408 Tax 114 Group net assets 2,107 1.
As indicated in note 2, the segmental information presented in respect of the Americas for 31 March 2007 is now further analysed to show North and Latin America as separate segments.
86 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 5.
Segmental information continued c Other financial information Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Central Total Discontinued Total 1 1 2 America America Ireland Asia Pacific activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Benchmark PBT is stated after charging: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 36 29 12 2 79 134 213 Amortisation of intangible assets other than acquisition intangibles 102 32 16 150 11 161 Benchmark PBT includes: Share of profit of associates 61 61 61 Segment net assets includes: Goodwill 1,376 524 319 2,219 2,219 Investments in associates 277 9 286 286 Capital expenditure 167 1 67 40 275 173 448 1.
Additional information on discontinued operations, which comprise Home Retail Group, together with a tax charge in respect of disposals, is shown in note 12. Business segments a Income statement Year ended 31 March 2008 Credit Decision Marketing Central Total 1 Services Analytics Services Interactive activities Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 1,972 469 830 859 4,130 Profit Operating profit loss 459 137 17 153 112 654 Net financing costs 155 155 Share of post-tax profits of associates 50 50 Profit loss before tax 509 137 17 153 267 549 Group tax expense 97 Profit for the financial year 452 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax EBIT 581 154 78 189 57 945 Net interest 126 126 Benchmark PBT 581 154 78 189 183 819 Exceptional items note 9 21 10 22 4 6 63 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 45 7 37 32 121 Goodwill adjustment 2 2 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 3 equity incentive plans 49 49 Financing fair value remeasurements 29 29 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 6 6 Profit loss before tax 509 137 17 153 267 549 1.
No allocation by business segment is made for charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans as the underlying data is maintained only to provide an allocation by geographical segment.
Experian Annual Report 2008 87 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Segmental information continued Year ended 31 March 2007 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Central Total Discontinued Total 1 Services Analytics Services Interactive activities continuing operations Group US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue Total revenue 1,584 392 728 788 3,492 5,468 8,960 3 Inter-segment revenue 11 11 11 Revenue from external customers 1,573 392 728 788 3,481 5,468 8,949 Profit Operating profit loss 402 130 28 135 222 473 212 685 Net financing income costs 146 146 16 130 Share of post-tax profits of associates 67 67 67 Profit loss before tax 469 130 28 135 368 394 228 622 Group tax expense 68 91 159 Profit for the financial year 326 137 463 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 505 136 64 167 47 825 Net interest 111 111 Benchmark PBT 505 136 64 167 158 714 Exceptional items note 9 11 151 162 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 16 1 27 32 76 Goodwill adjustment 5 9 14 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 4 equity incentive plans 24 24 Financing fair value remeasurements 35 35 Tax expense on share of profit of associates 9 9 Profit loss before tax 469 130 28 135 368 394 1.
Revenue from Credit Services included US$11m of inter-segment revenue with discontinued operations.
88 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 5.
Segmental information continued b Total segment assets 2008 2007 US$m US$m Credit Services 3,759 1,871 Decision Analytics 494 293 Marketing Services 1,323 993 Interactive 1,082 1,131 Central activities 611 614 Total 7,269 4,902 Total segment assets are in respect of continuing operations.
Total segment assets for Central activities represent corporate head office balances including retirement benefit and derivative assets.
In addition to those assets reflected in the geographical analysis, all Group properties are included within Central activities as they are not allocated by business segment.
c Capital expenditure 2008 2007 US$m US$m Continuing operations Credit Services 238 182 Decision Analytics 23 9 Marketing Services 58 64 Interactive 21 20 Central activities 4 Total continuing operations 344 275 Discontinued operations 173 Total 344 448 Total capital expenditure for the year ended 31 March 2008 is in respect of continuing operations only as there were no discontinued operations as defined by IFRS during the year then ended.
Experian Annual Report 2008 89 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 6.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing 2008 2007 2008 2007 2006 Sterling to US Dollar 2.01 1.89 1.99 1.96 1.74 Brazilian Real to US Dollar 0.53 0.47 0.57 0.48 0.46 Euro to US Dollar 1.42 1.29 1.58 1.33 1.22 Assets and liabilities of undertakings whose functional currency is not the US Dollar are translated into US Dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated into US Dollars at average rates of exchange unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions.
An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to foreign exchange risk is given in note 3.
Expenses 2008 2007 US$m US$m a Expenses by nature Profit before tax is stated after charging: Net operating lease rental expense 105 102 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 102 79 Amortisation of intangible assets 320 226 Write down on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 3 10 Employee benefit costs note 8 1,582 1,327 Research expenditure 6 5 Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administrative expenses, except for the amortisation of databases which is charged to cost of sales.
b Fees payable to the Companys auditor Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and Group financial statements 1 1 Audit of the financial statements of the Groups UK and overseas subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 3 2 Other assurance services, pursuant to legislation, including fees for the review of the Groups half-yearly financial report 2 2 Taxation services 6 4 Services in respect of the demerger 2 19 All other services, including regulatory and compliance services 4 2 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 17 29 The guidelines covering the use of the Companys auditor for non-audit services are set out in the corporate governance statement on page 48.
90 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 8.
Employee benefit costs and employee numbers Aggregate employee costs for the continuing operations of the Group 2008 2007 Notes US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,249 1,025 Social security costs 208 161 Share-based payments 35 76 91 Pension costs defined benefit plans 27 12 17 Pension costs defined contribution plans 27 37 33 Total continuing operations 1,582 1,327 Average number of employees including executive directors in the continuing operations of the Group 2008 2007 Full time Full time Full time Part time equivalent Full time Part time equivalent North America 5,674 286 5,817 5,190 201 5,290 Latin America 1,846 258 1,975 40 40 UK & Ireland 4,004 205 4,106 3,745 189 3,840 EMEA Asia Pacific 3,667 220 3,777 3,248 226 3,361 Central activities 80 3 82 95 4 97 Total continuing operations 15,271 972 15,757 12,318 620 12,628 As indicated in note 2, an additional segment has been included for the year ended 31 March 2008 to report activity in Latin America and comparative figures have been restated.
The average number of employees full time equivalent of Serasa in the nine months since acquisition is 2,505: the employee numbers in respect of Serasa reported within Latin America have been adjusted to reflect the period of ownership.
Remuneration of key management personnel 2008 2007 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 12 16 Retirement benefits 5 4 Share-based payments 18 28 Total continuing operations 35 48 Key management personnel comprises the board of directors, shown on pages 38 and 39, and certain senior management.
The amount included in respect of share-based payments includes operating and exceptional costs for previous GUS awards and the one-off demerger awards.
Further details of the remuneration of directors are given in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration on pages 58 to 63.
Experian Annual Report 2008 91 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Exceptional and other non-GAAP measures 2008 2007 US$m US$m Exceptional items Restructuring costs 60 Charge on early vesting and modification of share awards at demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 23 Other costs incurred relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 6 126 Closure of UK Account Processing 2 26 Loss on disposal of businesses 2 2 Gain arising in associate on the partial disposal of its subsidiary 3 15 Total exceptional items 63 162 Other non-GAAP measures Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 121 76 Goodwill adjustment 2 14 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 49 24 Financing fair value remeasurements note 10 29 35 Total other non-GAAP measures 201 149 Exceptional items and other non-GAAP measures are in respect of continuing operations.
Exceptional items In January 2008, the Group announced that it was launching a programme of significant cost-efficiency measures.
Identified efficiencies include offshoring of development activity, restructuring of core credit and marketing activities and infrastructure consolidation.
Following the identification of additional opportunities this programme is expected to deliver annualised cost savings of approximately US$110m, of which an estimated US$50m is expected to be realised in the year ending 31 March 2009.
One-off restructuring costs associated with achieving these cost savings will be in the region of US$140m, the majority of which will be cash costs.
Costs of US$60m have been recognised in the year in connection with this programme with a related cash outflow of US$18m.
Of this charge, US$36m related to redundancy costs, US$12m related to asset write offs and US$12m related to other restructuring and infrastructure consolidation costs.
Other costs relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group comprise legal and professional fees in respect of the transaction, together with costs in connection with the cessation of the corporate functions of GUS plc.
In April 2006, Experian announced the phased withdrawal from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK.
The anticipated cost of withdrawal of US$26m was charged in the year ended 31 March 2007, and was made up of a cost in cash of US$28m less the benefit of a US$2m pension curtailment credit.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, an exceptional credit has arisen in this connection following the successful transfer of certain employees and obligations of this business to a third party.
The loss on disposal of businesses in the year ended 31 March 2008 primarily related to the sale of Loyalty Solutions in Germany and that in the year ended 31 March 2007 primarily related to the sale of a minority stake in Experians South African business.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, First American Real Estate Solutions LLC FARES recognised a gain of US$77m on the partial disposal of its Real Estate Solutions division as part of the consideration for the acquisition of 82% of CoreLogic Solutions, Inc.
The Group recognised US$15m, its 20% share of the gain.
A deferred tax charge of US$6m was included in the FARES result for that year in respect of this gain.
A further gain of US$3m has arisen in the year ended 31 March 2008 in respect of a number of less significant disposals by FARES.
Cash outflows in respect of exceptional items of US$45m 2007: US$98m comprise total exceptional items of US$63m 2007: US$162m adjusted for working capital movements of US$9m 2007: US$46m, asset write offs of US$12m 2007: US$3m, share based payment add backs of US$nil 2007: US$30m and gains in associates of US$3m 2007: US$15m.
92 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 9.
Exceptional and other non-GAAP measures continued Other non-GAAP measures IFRS requires that, on acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The Group has excluded amortisation of these acquisition intangibles from its definition of Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on uncertain judgements about their value and economic life.
A goodwill adjustment of US$2m 2007: US$14m arose under IFRS 3 Business Combinations on the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses on prior years acquisitions.
The corresponding tax benefit reduced the tax charge for the year by US$2m 2007: US$14m.
Charges in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans relate to one-off grants made to senior management and at all staff levels at the time of the demerger, under a number of equity incentive plans.
The cost of these one-off grants is being charged to the Group income statement over the five years from flotation in October 2006 but excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
The cost of all other grants is being charged to the Group income statement and included in the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Groups derivatives is ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS.
Gains or losses on these derivatives arising from market movements are credited or charged to financing fair value remeasurements within finance income and finance expense in the Group income statement.
Net financing costs 2008 2007 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m a Net financing costs Interest income: Bank deposits and money market funds 19 10 Loan notes 1 Interest differentials on derivatives 1 17 Expected return on pension scheme assets 76 68 Interest income 96 96 Financing fair value gains: Fair value gains on borrowings attributable to interest rate risk 34 55 Fair value gains on non-hedging derivatives 7 Ineffective portion of net investment hedges 7 Movement in fair value of Serasa put option note 29 d 69 Financing fair value gains 110 62 Finance income 206 158 Interest expense: Bank loans and overdrafts 76 41 Eurobonds and notes 90 112 Commitment and facility utilisation fees 1 2 Finance lease interest expense 2 Interest expense on pension scheme liabilities 53 52 Interest expense 222 207 Financing fair value losses: Losses on interest rate swaps fair value hedges 35 60 Fair value losses on non-hedging derivatives 98 26 Foreign exchange transaction losses 6 11 Financing fair value losses 139 97 Finance expense 361 304 Net financing costs 155 146 Experian Annual Report 2008 93 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 10.
Net financing costs continued 2008 2007 Restated Note 2 US$m US$m b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT Net financing costs 155 146 Less: Financing fair value remeasurements 29 35 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 126 111 c Financing fair value remeasurements included in net financing costs Financing fair value gains 110 62 Financing fair value losses 139 97 Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements 29 35 11.
Tax expense 2008 2007 US$m US$m a Analysis of expense recognised in the Group income statement Current taxation: UK Corporation tax on income for the year 15 13 Adjustments in respect of prior years 43 1 58 14 Non-UK taxation: Overseas tax on income for the year 116 39 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 6 Total current tax charge for the year 59 19 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 28 53 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 4 Total deferred tax charge for the year 38 49 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 97 68 The total tax expense comprises: UK taxation 67 45 Overseas taxation 164 113 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 97 68 b Tax reconciliation Profit before tax 549 394 Add: tax expense on share of profits of associates 6 9 Adjusted profit before tax 555 403 Adjusted profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 2007: 30% 167 121 Effects of: Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years 32 11 Income not taxable 24 10 Expenses not deductible 45 39 Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 10 16 Tax expense on share of profits of associates 6 9 Effect of different tax rates in non-UK businesses 63 34 Disposal of businesses 3 Other adjustments 9 Total tax expense in the Group income statement 97 68 The effective tax rate for the year of 17.7% 2007: 17.3%, after adjusting for the net income from associates, is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 30% 2007: 30%.
The differences are explained above.
94 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 11.
Tax expense continued c Effective rate of tax on Benchmark PBT The effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT of US$819m 2007: US$714m is 23.2% 2007: 22.4%.
d Tax on items charged to equity In addition to the amount charged to the Group income statement tax amounting to US$16m 2007: US$7m has been charged directly to equity, relating mainly to share schemes, actuarial gains and losses on retirement benefit assets and foreign exchange.
This includes US$nil 2007: a credit of US$11m in respect of current taxation and a charge of US$16m 2007: US$18m in respect of deferred taxation.
e Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which the Groups businesses operate and could be affected by changes in tax law.
Discontinued operations Home Retail Group Results for discontinued operations 2008 2007 US$m US$m Revenue 5,468 Cost of sales 3,589 Gross profit 1,879 Distribution costs 1,361 Administrative expenses 306 Operating expenses 1,667 Operating profit 212 Net financing income 16 Profit before tax of discontinued operations 228 Tax charge in respect of pre-tax profit 74 Profit after tax of discontinued operations 154 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations: Tax charge in respect of disposals 17 Loss after tax on disposals 17 Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 137 In October 2006, the net assets of Home Retail Group were distributed by way of a dividend in specie.
As a consequence, these operations were classified as discontinued in the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The tax charge in respect of disposals related to taxation assets no longer recoverable following earlier disposals.
Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 2008 2007 US$m US$m From operating activities 705 From investing activities 168 From financing activities 3 Exchange and other movements 16 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 550 Less: cash held by Home Retail Group at demerger 518 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents in discontinued operations 32 Experian Annual Report 2008 95 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 13.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by a weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding own shares held in Treasury in the period prior to the demerger and own shares held in ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilutive effect of employee share incentive schemes.
The earnings figures used in the calculations are unchanged for diluted earnings per share.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2007 includes ordinary shares of GUS plc in issue to the date of the demerger and the ordinary shares of the Company in issue thereafter excluding own shares held in Treasury in the period prior to the demerger and own shares held in ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
2008 2007 Basic earnings per share: US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 43.3 49.9 Exclude: discontinued operations 14.8 Continuing operations 43.3 35.1 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 17.0 24.6 Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 60.3 59.7 Diluted earnings per share: Continuing and discontinued operations 42.7 49.3 Exclude: discontinued operations 14.6 Continuing operations 42.7 34.7 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 16.8 24.4 Benchmark diluted earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 59.5 59.1 2008 2007 Earnings: US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 437 462 Exclude: discontinued operations 137 Continuing operations 437 325 Add back of exceptional and other non-GAAP measures, net of tax 171 229 Benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 608 554 2008 2007 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue: m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 1,008.9 927.3 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 13.4 9.9 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 1,022.3 937.2 96 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 14.
Dividends 2008 2007 US cents US cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid as distributions to equity holders during the year: First interim paid in February 2008 2007: February 2007 6.5 66 5.5 55 Second interim paid in August 2007 11.5 116 Final paid in August 2006 40.3 346 Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares 18.0 182 45.8 401 Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group 5,627 Full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 18.5 17.0 170 A dividend of 12 US cents per ordinary share will be paid on 25 July 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 June 2008 and is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
This dividend, together with the first interim dividend of 6.5 US cents per ordinary share paid in February 2008, comprises the full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 of 18.5 US cents.
Unless shareholders elect by 27 June 2008 to receive US Dollars, their dividends will be paid in Sterling at a rate per share calculated on the basis of the exchange rate from US Dollars to Sterling on 4 July 2008.
Pursuant to the Income Access Share arrangements put in place as part of the demerger, shareholders in the Company are able to elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the IAS election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer Experian shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they become shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made an IAS election, or are deemed to have made an IAS election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
The Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust and the GUS ESOP Trust have waived their entitlements to dividends in the amount of US$2m 2007: US$4m.
In the year ended 31 March 2007, the GUS ESOP Trust did not waive its entitlement to the dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group.
The final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006, which was paid in August 2006, was received by shareholders of GUS plc.
The dividend in specie, which represented the net assets of Home Retail Group as at the date of the demerger, was also received by shareholders of GUS plc.
Experian Annual Report 2008 97 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 15.
Goodwill US$m At 1 April 2007 2,219 Differences on exchange 118 Additions through business combinations note 34 1,272 Reduction in goodwill relating to tax losses note 9 2 Disposals 2 At 31 March 2008 3,605 Additions through business combinations are stated after a reduction in goodwill of US$9m in respect of adjustments to deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions.
Following the demerger of Home Retail Group in the year ended 31 March 2007, there is no goodwill carried in the Group balance sheet in respect of that business.
Home Retail Experian Group Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 2,070 3,272 5,342 Differences on exchange 93 286 379 Additions through business combinations 71 71 Reduction in goodwill relating to tax losses note 9 14 14 Demerger of Home Retail Group 3,558 3,558 Disposals 1 1 At 31 March 2007 2,219 2,219 Goodwill at the balance sheet date has been allocated to CGUs as follows: North America US$1,474m 2007: US$1,376m, Latin America US$1,033m 2007: US$nil, UK & Ireland US$711m 2007: US$524m and EMEA Asia Pacific US$387m 2007: US$319m.
Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation and annual impairment testing are given in note 2.
Other intangible assets Internally Internal use generated Acquisition 1 Databases software software intangibles Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2007 666 137 218 571 1,592 Differences on exchange 21 9 9 51 90 Additions through business combinations note 34 102 5 1 578 686 Other additions 148 36 55 239 Disposals 50 18 32 100 At 31 March 2008 887 169 251 1,200 2,507 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2007 418 82 122 166 788 Differences on exchange 7 6 4 1 18 Charge for the year 129 29 41 121 320 Disposals 50 18 24 92 At 31 March 2008 504 99 143 288 1,034 Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 248 55 96 405 804 Net Book Value at 31 March 2008 383 70 108 912 1,473 1.
Acquisition intangibles represents trademarks and licences, trade names, customer relationships and completed technology.
98 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 16.
Other intangible assets continued Internally Internal use generated Acquisition 1 Databases software software intangibles Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2006 585 355 165 529 1,634 Differences on exchange 24 26 16 24 90 Additions through business combinations 2 18 20 Other additions 102 75 42 219 Demerger of Home Retail Group 308 308 Disposals 47 11 5 63 At 31 March 2007 666 137 218 571 1,592 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2006 353 180 90 85 708 Differences on exchange 20 16 9 5 50 Charge for the year 92 45 24 76 237 Demerger of Home Retail Group 150 150 Disposals 47 9 1 57 At 31 March 2007 418 82 122 166 788 Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 232 175 75 444 926 Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 248 55 96 405 804 1.
Property, plant and equipment Short Freehold leasehold Plant and properties properties equipment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2007 287 115 563 965 Differences on exchange 11 1 30 42 Additions through business combinations note 34 33 36 69 Other additions 4 6 95 105 Disposals 44 44 At 31 March 2008 335 122 680 1,137 Depreciation At 1 April 2007 55 19 372 446 Differences on exchange 5 1 20 26 Charge for the year 8 6 88 102 Disposals 41 41 At 31 March 2008 68 26 439 533 Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 232 96 191 519 Net Book Value at 31 March 2008 267 96 241 604 Experian Annual Report 2008 99 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 17.
Property, plant and equipment continued Leasehold properties Assets Freehold Long Short Plant and in course of properties leasehold leasehold equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2006 397 13 684 2,159 54 3,307 Differences on exchange 34 1 51 175 4 265 Additions through business combinations 3 1 4 Other additions 13 3 32 181 229 Transfers between assets 22 22 Demerger of Home Retail Group 160 17 666 1,907 36 2,786 Disposals 8 46 54 At 31 March 2007 287 115 563 965 Depreciation At 1 April 2006 60 4 318 1,255 1,637 Differences on exchange 3 29 100 132 Charge for the year 8 1 26 178 213 Demerger of Home Retail Group 16 5 347 1,119 1,487 Disposals 7 42 49 At 31 March 2007 55 19 372 446 Net Book Value at 31 March 2006 337 9 366 904 54 1,670 Net Book Value at 31 March 2007 232 96 191 519 The Group leases plant and equipment under a number of finance lease agreements.
At the end of each of the leases the Group has the option to purchase the equipment at a beneficial price.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$18m 2007: US$nil.
Investments in associates 2008 2007 US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 286 225 Additions 5 33 Share of profit after tax including a pre-tax exceptional gain of US$3m 2007: US$15m note 9 50 67 Dividends received 36 39 Acquisitions of controlling stake in associate 10 At 31 March 295 286 Investments in associates at 31 March 2008 include goodwill of US$228m 2007: US$219m.
The Groups share of cumulative retained profits of associated undertakings at 31 March 2008 is US$141m 2007: US$127m.
The Groups principal interest in associated undertakings is a 20% holding of FARES.
There are no other material interests in associated undertakings.
At 31 March 2008, the Groups share of the assets of FARES amounted to US$497m 2007: US$477m, and its share of liabilities is US$202m 2007: US$200m.
The Groups share of revenue for the year ended 31 March 2008 is US$249m 2007: US$249m, and its share of profit after tax US$50m 2007: US$67m.
First American Corporation, which holds the balance of the capital of FARES, has the right to acquire from Experian its interest in FARES at a purchase price pursuant to a specified formula based on the after tax earnings of FARES.
First American Corporation may only exercise this right after November 2008.
Experian can elect to delay completion of the transaction for a maximum period of 24 months following First American Corporation giving notice.
100 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 19.
Inventories 2008 2007 US$m US$m Work in progress 2 2 Finished goods 2 2 4 4 20.
Financial instruments by class The accounting policies for financial instruments set out in note 2 have been applied to the line items below: a Assets Assets at fair Derivatives value through Loan and used the profit and Available receivables for hedging loss account for sale Total At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Trade and other receivables 856 856 Cash and cash equivalents note 22 151 151 Available for sale financial assets note 28 42 42 Other financial assets note 29 24 6 30 1,007 24 6 42 1,079 Assets at fair Derivatives value through Loan and used the profit and Available receivables for hedging loss account for sale Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Trade and other receivables 660 660 Cash and cash equivalents note 22 907 907 Available for sale financial assets note 28 38 38 Other financial assets note 29 49 40 89 1,567 49 40 38 1,694 1.
VAT recoverable of US$1m 2007: US$1m and prepayments of US$183m 2007: US$144m are included in trade and other receivables in note 21 but are excluded from this analysis.
b Liabilities Liabilities at fair value through the Derivatives Other profit and loss used for financial account hedging liabilities Total As at 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Trade and other payables 993 993 Loans and borrowings note 24 2,850 2,850 Other financial liabilities note 29 121 20 583 724 121 20 4,426 4,567 Liabilities at fair value through the Derivatives Other profit and loss used for financial account hedging liabilities Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Trade and other payables 766 766 Loans and borrowings note 24 2,373 2,373 Other financial liabilities note 29 40 40 40 3,139 3,179 1.
VAT and other tax payable of US$52m 2007: US$42m, social security costs of US$95m 2007: US$75m and accruals of US$196m 2007: US$200m are included in trade and other payables in note 23 but are excluded from this analysis.
Experian Annual Report 2008 101 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 21.
Trade and other receivables a The analysis of trade and other receivables disclosed in the Group balance sheet is as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2008 2008 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 768 604 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 24 14 Less: other provisions in respect of trade receivables 19 16 Trade receivables net 725 574 Amounts owed by associates 3 3 VAT recoverable 1 1 Other prepayments and accrued income 302 9 216 11 1,031 9 794 11 There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other receivables and the book value stated above.
All non-current trade and other receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
b The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2008 2008 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US Dollar 327 4 335 7 Sterling 306 249 Brazilian Real 87 1 Euro 250 4 180 3 Other 61 1 29 1 1,031 9 794 11 c Trade receivables of US$530m 2007: US$415m were neither past due nor impaired and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2008 2007 US$m US$m New customers of less than six months standing 41 42 Existing customers of more than six months standing with no defaults in the past 478 356 Existing customers of more than six months standing with defaults in the past which were fully recovered 11 17 530 415 None of these trade receivables has been renegotiated in the year.
102 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 21.
Trade and other receivables continued d Trade receivables of US$180m 2007: US$144m were past due but not considered impaired and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2008 2007 US$m US$m Up to three months 148 128 Three to six months 20 10 Over six months 12 6 180 144 e Trade receivables of US$39m 2007: US$29m were considered partially impaired and provided for and these are further analysed as follows: Current Current 2008 2007 US$m US$m Up to three months 7 16 Three to six months 10 4 Over six months 22 9 39 29 Impairment provision 24 14 15 15 The other classes within trade and other receivables at the balance sheet dates do not include any impaired assets.
f Movements on the impairment provision are as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m At 1 April 14 10 Differences on exchange 1 1 Additions through business combinations 9 Provision for receivables impairment 17 17 Provision utilised in respect of debts written off 14 12 Unused amounts reversed 3 2 At 31 March 24 14 The impairment provision has been determined by reference to the age of the receivable and an assessment of the portion of the receivable expected to be recovered.
Amounts charged and credited to the Group income statement in respect of this provision are included in administrative expenses.
The movements on the impairment provision for the year ended 31 March 2007 reported above exclude any movements in respect of the provisions that related to Home Retail Group trade receivables in the period from 1 April 2006 to the date of demerger.
Other provisions in respect of trade receivables mainly comprise credit note provisions.
Cash and cash equivalents a The analysis of cash and cash equivalents disclosed in the Group balance sheet is as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 148 364 Short-term investments 3 543 151 907 The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2008 is 4.1% 2007: 4.4%.
There is no material difference between the fair value of cash and cash equivalents and the book value stated above.
Experian Annual Report 2008 103 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 22.
Cash and cash equivalents continued b Cash at bank and short-term investments of US$151m 2007: US$907m are further analysed by external credit rating where a balance with the counterparty is greater than US$2m: 2008 2007 US$m US$m A rated 44 852 B rated 58 6 Counterparty holding of less than US$2m 49 49 151 907 23.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current Current Non-current 2008 2008 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade creditors 214 193 VAT and other taxes payable 52 42 Social security costs 95 75 Accruals and deferred income 818 24 653 17 Other creditors 100 33 68 35 1,279 57 1,031 52 There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other payables and the book value stated above.
Noncurrent trade and other payables of US$nil 2007: US$1m are due after more than five years from the balance sheet date.
Loans and borrowings a The analysis of loans and borrowings disclosed in the Group balance sheet is as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2008 2008 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m 548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 732 721 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 660 627 Bank loans 29 1,409 Overdrafts 4 273 Present value of obligations under finance leases note d 6 10 1 39 2,811 1,025 1,348 During the year ended 31 March 2008, the whole of the outstanding balance of the 4.125% Euronotes 2007 was repaid on its maturity at the par value of 548m.
This repayment was financed from bank facilities that were in place at 31 March 2007.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, 4.125% Euronotes 2007 with a par value of 20m and 5.625% Euronotes 2013 with a par value of 16m were redeemed.
The effective interest rate of Euronotes and Eurobonds approximates to the nominal rate indicated above.
The effective interest rate for overdrafts at 31 March 2008 is 4.6% 2007: 4.3%.
Other than finance lease obligations, all the borrowings of the Group shown above are unsecured.
Finance lease obligations are effectively secured as the rights to the leased assets revert to the lessor in the event of default.
104 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 24.
Loans and borrowings continued b The carrying amounts of the Groups loans and borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2008 2008 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US Dollar 29 1,409 1 Sterling 1,392 4 1,348 Brazilian Real 6 10 Euro 4 1,020 39 2,811 1,025 1,348 c A comparison of carrying values and fair values of the Groups loans and borrowings is as follows: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value 2008 2008 2007 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m 548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 751 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 732 732 721 722 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 660 659 627 630 Bank loans 1,438 1,438 Overdrafts 4 4 273 273 Present value of obligations under finance leases 16 16 1 1 2,850 2,849 2,373 2,377 d The minimum lease payments payable under finance leases comprise: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Not later than one year 7 1 Later than one year and not later than five years 15 Total minimum lease payments 22 1 Future finance charges on finance leases 6 Present value of finance leases 16 1 The present value of finance leases falls due: Not later than one year 6 1 Later than one year and not later than five years 10 Present value of finance leases 16 1 e Borrowing facilities At 31 March 2008, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of US$1,121m 2007: US$2,450m which expire more than two years after the balance sheet date.
These facilities are in place for general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions.
Analysis of net debt non-GAAP measure 2008 2007 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts 147 634 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 43 6 Debt due within one year 29 729 Finance leases 16 1 Debt due after more than one year 2,758 1,306 Net debt at the end of the financial year 2,699 1,408 Experian Annual Report 2008 105 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 26.
Provisions Contingent Restructuring and other costs liabilities Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 39 39 Differences on exchange 1 5 6 Amount charged in the year 45 1 46 Additions through business combinations note 34 54 54 Utilised 35 35 Impact of discount rate movement 1 1 At 31 March 2008 51 60 111 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 8 19 27 Disclosed within current liabilities 43 41 84 At 31 March 2008 51 60 111 Restructuring Home Retail Group costs provisions Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 155 155 Differences on exchange 2 12 14 Amount charged in the year 37 12 49 Utilised 7 7 Impact of discount rate movement 2 2 Demerger of Home Retail Group 174 174 At 31 March 2007 39 39 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 30 30 Disclosed within current liabilities 9 9 At 31 March 2007 39 39 The restructuring provision at 31 March 2007 of US$9m disclosed within current liabilities included the full cost of the restructuring of UK Marketing Services, which was utilised in full in the year ended 31 March 2008.
The restructuring provision at 31 March 2007 of US$30m disclosed within non-current liabilities comprised the anticipated future costs of the withdrawal by Experian from large scale credit card and loan account processing in the UK, in respect of which there was a charge of US$28m in the year then ended.
This provision comprised the estimated costs of redundancy and certain contractual obligations in respect of this business and was determined by reference to projections of the timing of withdrawal.
It was anticipated that this portion of the provision would be utilised in the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2010.
As indicated in note 9, during the year ended 31 March 2008 the Group entered into an agreement to transfer certain of these activities to a third party and this gave rise to an exceptional credit of US$2m.
At 31 March 2008, the remaining provision in respect of obligations for the Group relating to the withdrawal from this business was US$20m of which US$8m is disclosed within non-current liabilities and US$12m is disclosed within current liabilities.
As indicated in note 9, there has been an exceptional charge in the year ended 31 March 2008 of US$60m in connection with a programme of cost-efficiency measures.
At the balance sheet date there is a related provision of US$31m which is disclosed within current liabilities.
Contingent and other liabilities at 31 March 2008 comprise liabilities of Serasa, in connection with local legal and taxation issues, which were primarily recognised on the acquisition of that company under the fair value accounting policy on acquisition.
Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are made as the exposures are concluded.
Fair values of provisions do not materially differ from the recognised book values.
106 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 27.
Retirement benefit assets obligations The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans in a number of countries around the world and provides post-retirement healthcare insurance benefits to certain former employees.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan that defines the amount of contributions that are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund.
Pension arrangements for the Groups UK employees are operated principally through the Experian Pension Scheme which is a defined benefit scheme and the Experian Money Purchase Pension Plan which is a defined contribution scheme.
In North and Latin America, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
There are no other material pension arrangements.
Following the demerger of Home Retail Group, the Argos Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme for Home Retail Group employees, continued to be operated by that business.
On demerger the pension rights of certain Home Retail Group employees, who had been members of the then GUS Pension Scheme, were transferred to the Argos Pension Scheme.
Certain Home Retail Group employees who had been members of the then GUS Money Purchase Pension Plan were transferred to the Home Retail Group Stakeholder Pension Plan during the year.
a Defined benefit schemes The Experian Pension Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly with assets being held in independently administered funds.
A full actuarial funding valuation of this scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2007 by independent, qualified actuaries, Watson Wyatt Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method of valuation the current service cost will increase as members approach retirement due to the ageing active membership of the scheme.
Whilst IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit of a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction is not effective for the current financial year, the Group has reviewed its provisions and is satisfied that these would have no effect on the retirement benefit asset recognised in the Group balance sheet.
As reported last year, following changes introduced by the Finance Act 2004 which took effect from 6 April 2006 A-Day, the Experian Pension Scheme implemented revised terms for members exchanging pension at retirement date for a tax-free lump sum.
The impact of the consequent update in assumptions reduced the charge to the Group income statement for the year ended 31 March 2007 by US$2m and increased the actuarial gain recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense in that year by US$6m.
The disclosures required by IAS 19, which relate to the Groups UK defined benefit pension arrangements only, are as follows: Amounts recognised in the Group balance sheet 2008 2007 Restated Note 2 Retirement benefit assets US$m US$m Market value of funded schemes assets 1,045 1,069 Present value of funded schemes liabilities 863 928 Retirement benefit assets surplus in the funded schemes 182 141 Retirement benefit obligations Present value of unfunded pension arrangements 35 37 Liability for post-retirement healthcare 15 19 Retirement benefit obligations 50 56 As indicated in note 2, retirement benefit obligations are now separately reported in the Group balance sheet as this is a more appropriate presentation of the nature of those obligations.
The Group balance sheet at 31 March 2008 accordingly includes a net retirement benefit asset of US$132m 2007: US$85m made up of total plan assets of US$1,045m 2007: US$1,069m and total defined benefit obligations of US$913m 2007: US$984m.
As reported last year the Group has in place arrangements which secure unfunded pension benefit arrangements for certain directors and senior managers by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets charged in this way is adjusted annually to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured in this way as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Experian Pension Scheme.
The total value of the assets charged in this way at 31 March 2008 was US$34m 2007: US$29m.
Further details of the unfunded pension arrangements for directors appear in the report on directors remuneration on page 62.
Experian Annual Report 2008 107 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 27.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued Amounts recognised in the Group profit and loss account reserve 2008 2007 US$m US$m Current service cost 20 53 Curtailment gain 8 6 Interest on schemes liabilities 53 78 Expected return on schemes assets 76 107 Total credit charge to Group income statement 11 18 Actuarial gain recognised in Group statement of recognised income and expense 15 65 Charge to profit and loss account reserve in respect of the Argos Pension Scheme 41 Total credit to Group profit and loss account reserve 26 6 The credit charge to the Group income statement includes US$nil 2007: US$17m in respect of discontinued operations.
The curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2008 of US$8m arises principally from the restructuring of continuing businesses in the UK.
The curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2007 arose from the restructuring of the UK Account Processing and the UK Marketing Services businesses, as well as the cessation of certain corporate functions in GUS plc.
The charge to the Group profit and loss account reserve in the year ended 31 March 2007 in respect of the Argos Pension Scheme formed part of the dividend in specie on the demerger of Home Retail Group.
Movements during the year in the net retirement benefit asset recognised in the Group balance sheet 2008 2007 US$m US$m At 1 April 85 31 Differences on exchange 10 Total amounts recognised in Group income statement as disclosed below 11 18 Actuarial loss gain recognised in Group statement of recognised income and expense 15 65 Charge to profit and loss account reserve in respect of the Argos Pension Scheme 41 Contributions paid by the Group 21 38 At 31 March 132 85 Expense recognised in the following lines in the Group income statement 2008 2007 US$m US$m Administrative costs after exceptional income of US$5m 2007: US$4m 12 17 Net financing income 23 16 Continuing operations 11 1 Discontinued operations 17 Total charge to Group income statement 11 18 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group statement of recognised income and expense 2008 2007 US$m US$m Gain on liabilities 116 75 Loss on assets 101 3 Continuing operations 15 72 Discontinued operations 7 Total gain included in Group statement of recognised income and expense in year 15 65 108 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 27.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued The cumulative actuarial gain loss included in the Group statement of recognised income and expense comprises: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Continuing operations 142 127 Discontinued operations 81 81 Total cumulative actuarial gain included in Group statement of recognised income and expense 61 46 Changes in the present value of the total defined benefit obligation 2008 2007 US$m US$m At 1 April 984 1,989 Differences on exchange 11 198 Additions through business combinations 6 Demerger of Home Retail Group 1,100 Current service cost 20 53 Interest on schemes liabilities 53 78 Settlement or curtailment 8 9 Actuarial gain on liabilities 116 118 Contributions paid by employees 6 14 Contributions paid from outside the Group 3 2 Benefits paid 46 123 At 31 March 913 984 The total defined benefit obligation of US$913m 2007: US$984m includes US$863m 2007: US$928m in respect of the Groups funded arrangements and US$50m 2007: US$56m in respect of the Groups unfunded arrangements.
Changes in the market value of the plan assets 2008 2007 US$m US$m At 1 April 1,069 2,020 Differences on exchange 11 208 Demerger of Home Retail Group 1,141 Additions through business combinations 6 Expected return on schemes assets 76 107 Settlement or curtailment 3 Actuarial loss on assets 101 53 Contributions paid by the Group 21 38 Contributions paid by employees 6 14 Contributions paid from outside the Group 3 2 Benefits paid 46 123 At 31 March 1,045 1,069 The actual return on plan assets was a loss of US$25m 2007: gain of US$54m.
The estimated amount of contributions expected to be paid to the Experian defined benefit pension schemes during the next financial year is US$16m by the Group and US$5m by employees.
Experian Annual Report 2008 109 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 27.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued Actuarial assumptions The valuations used for 31 March 2008 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by Watson Wyatt Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2008 2007 % % Rate of inflation 3.6 3.1 Rate of increase for salaries 5.4 4.9 Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 3.6 3.1 Rate of increase for medical costs 6.5 6.5 Discount rate 6.9 5.4 The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, i. e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
If this assumption increased decreased by 0.1%, the defined benefit obligation would decrease increase by approximately US$15m and the annual current service cost would decrease increase by approximately US$1m.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
The IAS 19 valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with the PA92 series year of use tables with medium cohort mortality improvement projections and an age rating of 1 year.
This includes an explicit allowance for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy medium cohort projections.
The average expectation of life on retirement in normal health is assumed to be: 2008 2007 years years At age 65 for a male currently aged 65 21.2 19.1 At age 65 for a female currently aged 65 24.1 22.2 At age 65 for a male currently aged 50 22.2 19.8 At age 65 for a female currently aged 50 25.0 23.1 An increase in assumed life expectancy of 0.1 years would increase the defined benefit obligation at 31 March 2008 by approximately US$3m.
The assumptions in respect of discount rate, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the IAS 19 accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
The IAS 19 valuation, in respect of post-retirement healthcare insurance benefits provided to certain former Group employees, additionally assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this assumption increased decreased by 1.0% per annum then the obligation would increase decrease by US$1m and the current service cost would remain unchanged.
Assets of the Groups defined benefit schemes and their expected rates of return Expected Expected long-term long-term rate of rate of Fair value return Fair value return 2008 2008 2007 2007 US$m %p.
Equities 693 9.1 733 8.1 Fixed interest securities 343 5.7 336 5.4 Other 9 5.1 n a 1,045 8.0 1,069 7.3 The expected return on plan assets has been determined by considering the mix of returns anticipated on the assets held in accordance with the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest investments and securities are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
Expected returns on equity and other investments reflect the long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
110 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 27.
Retirement benefit assets obligations continued History of experience gains and losses 2008 2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of defined benefit obligation 913 984 1,989 2,025 Fair value of schemes assets 1,045 1,069 2,020 1,814 Net pension asset obligation 132 85 31 211 2008 2007 2006 2005 Experience adjustment arising on defined benefit obligation: Amount Loss gain US$m 8 5 2 110 Percentage of the present value of defined benefit obligation 0.9% 0.5% 5.4% Experience adjustment arising on schemes assets: Amount Loss gain US$m 101 53 241 Percentage of schemes assets 9.7% 5.1% 11.6% b Defined contribution schemes The pension cost represents contributions payable by the Group to such schemes and amounted to US$37m 2007: US$33m.
Available for sale financial assets a The analysis of available for sale financial assets disclosed in the Group balance sheet is as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m At 1 April 38 37 Differences on exchange 1 2 Additions 4 3 Fair value losses on available for sale financial assets 1 At 31 March 42 38 b Available for sale financial assets comprise: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Listed equity securities UK 34 29 Listed equity securities North America 8 9 42 38 c Available for sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Sterling 34 29 US Dollar 8 9 42 38 There is no material difference between the fair value of available for sale financial assets and the book value stated above.
None of the available for sale financial assets is either past due or impaired.
Experian Annual Report 2008 111 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 29.
Other financial assets and liabilities a The analysis of other financial assets and liabilities disclosed in the Group balance sheet is as follows: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2008 2008 2007 2007 Other financial assets US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 24 20 Fair value hedge of borrowings cross currency swap 29 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 2 3 16 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 4 21 Total other financial assets 6 24 53 36 Current Non-current Current Non-current 2008 2008 2007 2007 Other financial liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 20 40 Non-hedging derivatives equity swaps 16 5 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 32 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 2 66 50 91 40 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 583 Total other financial liabilities 50 674 40 There is no material difference between the fair values of these assets and liabilities and the book values stated above.
b Notional principal amounts at the balance sheet dates in respect of the Groups derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2008 2007 US$m US$m Interest rate swaps 3,443 2,814 Cross currency swap 758 Equity swaps 72 Foreign exchange contracts 1,223 1,780 c Maturity of derivative financial instruments: Less than 1 - 2 2 - 3 3 - 4 4 - 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis: Interest rate swaps 15 5 15 13 12 12 62 Equity swaps 19 5 2 26 34 17 13 12 12 88 Settled on a gross basis foreign exchange contracts 1,223 1,223 1,257 17 13 12 12 1,311 Less than 1 - 2 2 - 3 3 - 4 4 - 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis interest rate swaps 5 14 15 12 12 24 72 Settled on a gross basis foreign exchange contracts 1,780 1,780 1,775 14 15 12 12 24 1,852 The table above analyses the Groups derivative instruments, which will be settled on a gross and net basis, into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
112 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 29.
Other financial assets and liabilities continued d Fair values of other financial assets and liabilities Fair values of derivative instruments are set out in note a opposite.
The fair value of foreign currency contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and year end exchange rates.
The fair values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The put option associated with the remaining 30% stake of Serasa is recognised as a liability of US$583m at 31 March 2008 under IAS 39.
The put element is valued at the higher of 95% of the equity value of Serasa or the value of Serasa based on the P E ratio of Experian and the latest earnings of Serasa.
A Monte Carlo simulation has been used to calculate the liability.
The key assumptions in arriving at the value of the put are the equity value of Serasa, the future P E ratio of Experian at the date of exercise, the respective volatilities of Experian and Serasa and the risk free rate in Brazil.
The method of valuation has been updated since the initial recognition of the liability as it is now assumed that the put may be exercised in June 2012 and thereafter recorded as a current liability.
Previously an average assumed exercise date of June 2015 had been applied.
This change in method resulted in an increase of US$117m to the initial liability recognised at the date of the written put on acquisition of Serasa and has no impact on the results previously reported at 30 September 2007.
The gain since acquisition of US$69m, which is recorded as a financing fair value remeasurement, primarily relates to a fall of 7 in the expected future Experian P E ratio during the period since acquisition and an increase in the risk free rate in Brazil from 10.4% to 13.2%.
e Amounts recognised in the Group income statement in connection with the Groups hedging instruments are disclosed in note 10.
Additional information on financial liabilities a The contractual repricing dates of liabilities exposed to interest rate risk are as follows: Less than 1 - 2 2 - 3 3 - 4 4 - 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 732 732 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 660 660 Bank loans 1,438 1,438 Overdrafts 4 4 Present value of obligations under finance leases 6 5 4 1 16 1 Effect of interest rate swaps 185 210 475 379 209 668 Other derivative financial liabilities 50 15 21 26 9 20 141 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 583 583 2 Trade and other payables 944 25 23 1 993 2,840 567 523 407 218 12 4,567 Less than 1 - 2 2 - 3 3 - 4 4 - 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 751 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 721 721 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 627 627 Overdrafts 273 273 Present value of obligations under finance leases 1 1 1 Effect of interest rate swaps 130 408 272 390 656 Other derivative financial liabilities 40 40 2 Trade and other payables 714 46 3 1 1 1 766 1,909 454 452 391 1 28 3,179 1.
These represent the gross notional values of interest rate swaps.
Experian Annual Report 2008 113 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 30.
Additional information on financial liabilities continued b Analysis of financial liabilities by currency: Brazilian Sterling US Dollar Real Euro Other Total At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 732 732 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 660 660 Bank loans 1,438 1,438 Overdrafts 4 4 Present value of obligations under finance leases 16 16 1 Effect of forward foreign exchange contracts 900 611 222 67 Other derivative financial liabilities 84 55 2 141 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 583 583 2 Trade and other payables 343 376 76 145 53 993 919 2,480 675 373 120 4,567 Sterling US Dollar Euro Other Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 548m 4.125% Euronotes 2007 751 751 350m 6.375% Eurobonds 2009 721 721 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 627 627 Overdrafts 4 269 273 Present value of obligations under finance leases 1 1 Effect of forward foreign exchange contracts 1 and cross currency swap 1,065 1,513 516 68 Other derivative financial liabilities 40 40 2 Trade and other payables 207 409 120 30 766 535 1,922 624 98 3,179 1.
These represent the gross notional values of foreign exchange contracts and, at 31 March 2007, a cross currency swap.
c Analysis of financial liabilities by interest rate profile: Noninterest Floating Fixed bearing Total At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,443 1,407 2,850 1 Effect of interest rate swaps note 30 a 185 185 Other derivative financial liabilities 141 141 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 583 583 2 Trade and other payables 33 70 890 993 1,432 1,662 1,473 4,567 Noninterest Floating Fixed bearing Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,024 1,349 2,373 1 Effect of interest rate swaps note 30 a 130 130 Other derivative financial liabilities 40 40 2 Trade and other payables 766 766 1,194 1,219 766 3,179 1.
These represent the effect of interest rate swaps on the interest rate profile.
114 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 30.
Additional information on financial liabilities continued d Analysis by maturity profile contractual, undiscounted cash flows : Less than 1 - 2 2 - 3 3 - 4 4 - 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 127 783 43 41 1,473 701 3,168 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 29 c 34 17 13 12 12 88 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 29 c 1,223 1,223 Put option in respect of acquisition of Serasa minority interest 1,003 1,003 1 Trade and other payables 947 26 25 1 1 1,000 2,331 809 85 55 2,489 713 6,482 Less than 1 - 2 2 - 3 3 - 4 4 - 5 Over 5 1 year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 1,115 81 768 37 37 730 2,768 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 29 c 5 14 15 12 12 24 72 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 29 c 1,780 1,780 1 Trade and other payables 656 63 3 1 1 1 725 3,546 158 786 50 50 755 5,345 1.
Cash flows in respect of VAT, other tax payable, social security costs and accruals are excluded from this analysis.
Deferred tax 2008 2007 a Net deferred tax liabilities assets US$m US$m At 1 April 35 197 Differences on exchange 11 Income statement charge note 11 including US$nil 2007: US$5m relating to discontinued operations 38 54 Business combinations note 34 90 2 Demerger of Home Retail Group 89 Tax charged to equity 16 18 Transfers 24 1 At 31 March 144 35 Net deferred tax liabilities assets have been presented in the Group balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax assets 26 103 Deferred tax liabilities 170 68 144 35 The movement in gross deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is shown below.
b Deferred tax assets Share option Other Accelerated and award Asset temporary depreciation Intangibles schemes provisions Tax losses differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 3 128 20 26 8 119 304 Differences on exchange 2 1 1 2 Income statement credit charge 6 16 9 35 29 13 Business combinations 3 17 9 29 Tax charged to equity 11 11 Transfers 48 48 At 31 March 2008 9 115 9 36 42 52 263 Experian Annual Report 2008 115 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31.
Deferred tax continued c Deferred tax liabilities Share option Other Property Accelerated and award temporary valuations depreciation Intangibles schemes Tax losses differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 5 34 70 1 5 154 269 Differences on exchange 12 1 13 Income statement charge credit 1 18 1 43 25 Business combinations 120 1 119 Tax charged to equity 5 5 Transfers 2 26 24 At 31 March 2008 5 37 184 1 4 176 407 Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$32m 2007: US$19m in respect of losses that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
In addition the Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of US$25m 2007: US$22m in respect of capital losses that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$2,004m 2007: US$2,187m have not been recognised for the withholding tax and other taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax assets recoverable within the next twelve months of US$47m 2007: US$120m and deferred tax liabilities payable within the next twelve months of US$1m 2007: US$10m.
Reconciliation of movements in total equity Attributable Equity Number of Share Share Retained Other to equity minority Total shares capital premium earnings reserves holders interests equity Year ended 31 March 2008 m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 1,022.3 102 1,435 16,341 15,773 2,105 2 2,107 Profit for the financial year 437 437 15 452 Net income recognised directly in equity for the financial year 2 89 87 87 Employee share option schemes: value of employee services 65 65 65 proceeds from shares issued 1.1 7 7 7 Exercise of share options 3 37 34 34 Liability on put option over minority interests 591 591 591 Minority interest arising on business combinations 155 155 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 6 6 6 Equity dividends paid during the year note 14 182 182 182 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 11 11 At 31 March 2008 1,023.4 102 1,442 16,065 15,653 1,956 161 2,117 116 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 32.
Reconciliation of movements in total equity continued Attributable Equity Number of Share Share Retained Other to equity minority Total shares capital premium earnings reserves holders interests equity Year ended 31 March 2007 m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2006 879.2 88 16,256 5,683 16,575 5,452 2 5,454 Profit for the financial year 462 462 1 463 Net income recognised directly in equity for the financial year 132 469 601 601 Share issues pre demerger of Home Retail Group 7.1 1 75 76 76 Cancellation of treasury shares pre demerger of Home Retail Group 8.9 1 178 179 Capital reduction 16,153 16,153 Share issues by way of Global Offer 142.9 14 1,427 1,441 1,441 Employee share option schemes: value of employee services 109 109 109 proceeds from shares issued 2.0 8 8 8 Exercise of share options 70 129 59 59 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 75 75 75 Relinquishment of Home Retail Group shares to employees and Home Retail Group 100 100 Equity dividends paid during the year note 14 401 401 401 Dividend in specie relating to the demerger of Home Retail Group note 14 5,627 5,627 5,627 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 1 1 At 31 March 2007 1,022.3 102 1,435 16,341 15,773 2,105 2 2,107 The balance classified as share capital is the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
Further details relating to the authorised and issued share capital of Experian Group Limited at the balance sheet dates, together with details of ordinary shares issued since the balance sheet date, are contained in note K to the parent company financial statements.
As part of the demerger, Experian Group Limited became the ultimate holding company of GUS plc and related subsidiaries and shares in GUS plc ceased to be listed on the London Stock Exchange on 6 October 2006.
Trading of shares in Experian on the London Stock Exchange commenced on 11 October 2006.
This transaction was accounted for using the principles of merger accounting and the distribution to GUS plc shareholders of shares in Home Retail Group plc was accounted for as a dividend in specie.
In accordance with the requirements of merger accounting, the nominal values of the issued share capital at 1 April 2005 and subsequent movements to the date of demerger were amended to reflect the capital structure of Experian Group Limited.
These movements included the recognition of a share premium balance in Experian Group Limited on a reorganisation prior to the demerger and the subsequent reduction of share capital and the transfer of the associated share premium account to retained earnings.
On 11 October 2006, the Group raised US$1,441m, net of US$43m expenses, by way of a share offer.
The amount received in excess of the nominal value of shares issued is reported as part of the share premium account and the balance on this account is not available for distribution.
Retained earnings comprise net profits retained in the Group after the payment of dividends.
The composition of and movements on other reserves are explained below.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
Experian Annual Report 2008 117 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 32.
Reconciliation of movements in total equity continued The analysis of other reserves is as follows: Total Own Merger Hedging Translation other shares reserve reserve reserve reserves Year ended 31 March 2008 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2007 163 15,682 18 54 15,773 Exercise of share options 37 37 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 6 6 Net income recognised directly in equity for the financial year 7 96 89 At 31 March 2008 132 15,682 11 150 15,653 Year ended 31 March 2007 At 1 April 2006 496 15,682 14 411 16,575 Cancellation of treasury shares pre demerger of Home Retail Group 179 179 Exercise of share options 129 129 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts 75 75 Relinquishment of Home Retail Group shares to employees and Home Retail Group 100 100 Net income recognised directly in equity for the financial year 4 465 469 At 31 March 2007 163 15,682 18 54 15,773 At 31 March 2008, the balance on the own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in the Company held by the Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan Trust, including shares purchased by the GUS ESOP Trust to satisfy certain of the Groups obligations under its share incentive plans.
During the year these trusts purchased 509,518 2007: 7,775,076 shares at a cost of US$6m 2007: US$75m.
The merger reserve arose on the demerger in October 2006 and represents the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before the global offer and subsequent share issues.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related taxation.
118 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 33.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement 2008 2007 US$m US$m a Cash generated from operations Profit after tax 452 326 Adjustments for: Tax expense 97 68 Share of post-tax profits of associates 50 67 Net financing costs 155 146 Operating profit 654 473 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 3 10 Depreciation and amortisation 422 303 Goodwill adjustment 2 14 Charge in respect of equity incentive plans 66 91 Exceptional items included in working capital 9 46 Increase in inventories 1 Increase in receivables 73 72 Increase in payables 87 82 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in Group income statement 5 4 Cash generated from operations 1,165 942 b Interest paid Interest paid on bonds, bank loans and overdrafts 167 133 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 2 Total interest paid 169 133 c Acquisition of subsidiaries Purchase of subsidiary undertakings including acquisition expenses note 34 1,726 82 Net cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings note 34 60 8 Deferred consideration settled on acquisitions made in previous years 54 44 Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries 1,720 118 d Disposal of subsidiaries Receipt of deferred consideration in respect of home shopping and Reality 258 Sale of other businesses 6 Cash inflow from disposal of subsidiaries 6 258 e Financing Debt due within one year: Repayment of borrowings 746 42 New borrowings 29 Debt due after more than one year: Repayment of borrowings 1,381 New borrowings 1,409 Net cash flow from debt financing 692 1,423 f Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 148 364 Short-term investments 3 543 Cash and cash equivalents per Group balance sheet 151 907 Overdrafts 4 273 Cash and cash equivalents per Group cash flow statement 147 634 g Major non-cash transactions Other than those obligations acquired in connection with the purchase of Serasa, the Group did not enter into any new finance lease arrangements during the year 2007: US$nil.
Finance lease obligations of Serasa at the date of acquisition in June 2007 were US$19m.
Experian Annual Report 2008 119 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 34.
Acquisitions On 28 June 2007, the Group acquired an initial 65% stake in Serasa, the market-leading credit bureau in Brazil, from a consortium of Brazilian banks for US$1.2bn inclusive of transaction costs and net of cash and cash equivalents held by that business.
Under the terms of the purchase agreement a further 5% of Serasa has been acquired since the date of the acquisition and, at 31 March 2008, the Groups interest in Serasa was 70%.
There are put and call options associated with the shares held by the remaining principal shareholders of Serasa and these are exercisable for a period of five years from June 2012.
As indicated in note 2, the net present value of the put option has been recognised as a non-current financial liability.
At 31 March 2008 this liability was US$583m.
In addition the Group acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Hitwise, a leading internet market intelligence company, for US$260m on 8 June 2007 and made a number of other acquisitions, none of which is considered individually material.
The other acquisitions comprise the purchase of an additional interest in an entity previously classified as an associate together with purchases of 100% interests in a number of other entities.
In aggregate, the acquired businesses contributed revenues of US$411m to the Group, consisting of revenues from Serasa US$305m, Hitwise US$45m and other acquisitions US$61m, from the date of their acquisition to 31 March 2008.
The acquisitions contributed aggregate profit after tax of US$54m to the Group, consisting of the profit after tax of Serasa US$44m, Hitwise US$4m and other acquisitions US$6m, for the periods from their respective acquisition dates to 31 March 2008.
If these acquisitions had been completed on 1 April 2007, further revenues of US$132m would have been reported.
It has been impracticable to estimate the impact on Group profit after tax had the acquired entities been owned from 1 April 2007, due to the acquired entities having different accounting policies prior to acquisition, previously reporting to different period ends and, in the case of certain of the individually immaterial acquisitions, preparing financial information on a cash basis prior to acquisition.
Details of the net assets acquired at provisional fair values are as follows: Serasa Hitwise Other acquisitions Total Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Fair value US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Intangible assets 96 531 4 76 - 79 100 686 Property, plant and equipment 61 64 2 2 3 3 66 69 Deferred tax assets 8 25 3 1 1 9 29 Trade and other receivables 57 53 12 9 38 38 107 100 Cash and cash equivalents 22 22 21 21 17 17 60 60 Trade and other payables 66 65 34 34 25 26 125 125 Provisions 5 54 5 54 Current tax liabilities 3 3 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 32 79 16 24 32 119 138 494 5 61 34 88 177 643 Goodwill 911 201 169 1,281 1,405 262 257 1,924 Satisfied by: Cash 1,231 260 181 1,672 Acquisition expenses 46 2 6 54 Deferred consideration 19 52 33 Acquisition of controlling stake in associate 10 10 Recognition of minority interest 147 8 155 1,405 262 257 1,924 The book values above are the carrying amounts of each class of asset and liability, determined in accordance with IFRS, immediately before the acquisition.
The fair values set out above contain certain provisional amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Provisional amounts have been included at 31 March 2008 as a consequence of the timing and complexity of the acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments in respect of acquisitions made during the year resulted in an increase in book value of US$466m and arose principally in respect of acquisition intangibles.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the businesses acquired.
Deferred consideration is primarily payable in cash up to three years after the date of acquisition and in some cases is contingent on the businesses acquired achieving revenue and profit targets.
The deferred consideration settled during the year on acquisitions made in previous years was US$53m.
There have been no material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2008, that relate to acquisitions that were effected in the current or previous years.
120 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 35.
Share-based payment arrangements The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based incentive plans.
These include options and awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited made at or after demerger together with options and awards previously made in respect of shares in GUS plc which were rolled over into options and awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited at demerger.
Prior to the demerger, Experian employees participated in share-based incentive plans in respect of ordinary shares in GUS plc.
On demerger, certain GUS options and awards vested early with the majority of Experian participants outstanding GUS options and awards rolled over into the Experian equivalent share-based incentive plans.
Accordingly the following information relates to options and awards held by the Groups employees including details in respect of Experian share-based incentive plans and, where appropriate, GUS share-based incentive plans.
Option, award and share prices are disclosed in Sterling as this is the currency in which ordinary shares in Experian Group Limited are quoted and ordinary shares in GUS plc were quoted prior to the demerger.
a Share options i Summary of arrangements Experian Share Option Plan The Experian Share Option Plan was introduced at demerger and includes options granted at and after demerger together with certain options rolled over from former GUS plans.
Arrangements are as follows: Nature Grant of options Vesting conditions: Service period 3 and 4 years Performance Other n a Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date n a Maximum term 10 years Method of settlement Share distribution Expected departures at grant date 5% 1 Option exercise price calculation Market price over the 3 dealing days preceding the grant 1.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of an Experian Group Limited share from the London Stock Exchange daily official list.
Experian Sharesave Plans A number of Experian Sharesave Plans were introduced during the year ended 31 March 2008 and arrangements are primarily as follows: Nature Save as you earn schemes Vesting conditions: Service period 1 year for US scheme 3 or 5 years for other schemes Performance Other Saving obligation over the vesting period Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date n a Maximum term 1, 3.5 or 5.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution 2 Expected departures at grant date 1 year 5% 2 3 years 30% 2 5 years 50% 1 Option exercise price calculation 15% discount to market price over the 3 dealing days preceding the grant for US scheme 20% discount to market price over the 3 dealing days preceding the grant for other schemes 1.
The stated values for expected departures include participants who did not meet the saving requirement of the schemes.. Experian Annual Report 2008 121 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 35.
Share-based payment arrangements continued Experian Roll-over plans formerly GUS plans The arrangements in respect of former GUS share option plans, which were primarily rolled over into Experian equivalent plans at demerger, are as follows: The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Savings related share Arrangements Executive Share Option Schemes The North America Stock Option Plan option schemes Nature Grant of options Grant of options Save as you earn schemes Vesting conditions: Service period 3 years 1, 2 and 3 years 3 or 5 years Performance Other EPS growth performance n a Saving obligation over 1 condition the vesting period Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date Condition is satisfied n a n a Maximum term 10 years 6 years 3.5 or 5.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution 2 Expected departures 5% 1 year 0% 3 years 30% 2 at grant date 2 years 15% 5 years 50% 3 years 20% 3 Option exercise price calculation Market price over the 3 dealing Market price over the 3 dealing 20% discount to market days preceding the grant days preceding the grant price over the 3 dealing days preceding the grant 1.
The performance condition for The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes required average Benchmark EPS growth to exceed the average growth in the general index of UK retail prices by at least 4% p. a. over a 2 year period.
The period of assessment commenced at the date of demerger.
This is not a market based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The stated values for expected departures include participants who did not meet the saving requirement of the scheme.
Three day averages were calculated by taking middle market quotations of a GUS plc share from the London Stock Exchange daily official list.
At roll-over, the quantity and exercise price of grants were modified to adjust for the difference between the GUS and Experian share prices.
At demerger, a limited number of options and awards remained as GUS options and awards and participants had entitlement to one Home Retail Group share and one Experian share in lieu of each GUS share allocated.
To the extent that these share options did not vest in accordance with their conditions, they lapsed during the year ended 31 March 2007 or the year ended 31 March 2008. ii Weighted average share price 2008 2007 1 Weighted average share price of Experian Group Limited 5.02 5.90 GUS plc share price at demerger n a 9.90 2 Weighted average share price of GUS plc n a 9.82 1.
Experians weighted average share price for 2007 is for the period from the listing date, 11 October 2006, to 31 March 2007.
GUS plcs weighted average share price for 2007 is in respect of the period up to 11 October 2006.
Options in respect of the ordinary shares of Experian Group Limited and GUS plc were exercised on a regular basis throughout the periods that the respective shares were in issue.
122 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 35.
Share-based payment arrangements continued iii Information relating to option valuation techniques For the above plans the Black-Scholes model is used to determine an appropriate value of the option grants and inputs into the model are calculated as follows: Expected volatility: Experian Share Option Plan As shares in Experian Group Limited were newly listed during the year ended 31 March 2007, there was insufficient share price history in order to calculate historical volatility in that year.
Accordingly to arrive at a reasonable volatility assumption an analysis of the share price volatility of comparable companies was performed in that year.
Subsequently volatility has been calculated as an average over the expected life with an assumption made for volatility in each year of the expected life.
Volatility in the first year is now assumed to be the same as implied volatility on grant date.
Volatility for year 4 and beyond is assumed to remain at the long run historic volatility.
Linear interpolation is assumed for years 2 and 3.
Expected volatility: Experian Sharesave Plans Calculated as an average over the expected life with an assumption made for volatility in each year of the expected life.
Volatility in the first year is assumed to be the same as implied volatility on grant date.
Expected volatility: former GUS plans Calculated as an average over the expected life with an assumption made for volatility in each year of the expected life.
Volatility in the first year was assumed to be the same as implied volatility on grant date.
Volatility for year 4 and beyond was assumed to remain at the long run 10 year observed historic volatility.
Linear interpolation was assumed for years 2 and 3.
Expected dividend yield Yields are based on the current consensus analyst forecast figures at the time of grant.
The inputs utilised are an average of the forecast over the next three financial years.
Risk-free rate Rates are obtained from the UK Government Debt Management Office website which details historical prices and yields for gilt strips.
Expected option life to exercise: Experian Share Option Plan Options under the Experian Share Option Plan vest 50% after 3 years and 50% after 4 years.
The expected life is 4 years for the 50% that vest after 3 years and 4.85 years for the 50% that vest after 4 years.
Expected option life to exercise: Experian Sharesave Plans Options under these plans have expected lives of either 3 or 5 years.
Expected option life to exercise: former GUS plans Options under The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive Share Option Schemes had expected lives of 4 years, The North America Stock Option Plan had an expected life of 3.75 years and the savings related share option schemes had expected lives of either 3 or 5 years.
Share price on grant date: Experian Share Option Plan The majority of the grants made in the year ended 31 March 2007 were made on 11 October 2006.
As this was Experians first trading day, the weighted average price of trades was used.
For subsequent grants, the closing price on the day of grant was used.
Share price on grant date: Experian Sharesave Plans The closing price on the day the options were granted.
Share price on grant date: former GUS plans The closing price on the day the options were granted.
Option exercise price Exercise price as stated in the terms of each award.
Experian Annual Report 2008 123 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 35.
Share-based payment arrangements continued iv Weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes models Experian plans Experian Arrangements Experian Share Option Plan Sharesave Plans 2008 2007 2008 Share price on grant date 5.30 5.63 5.83 Exercise price 5.22 5.61 4.72 Expected volatility 29.5% 28.0% 26.7% Expected dividend yield 3.6% 3.3% 3.8% Risk-free rate 5.2% 4.9% 5.7% Expected option life to exercise 3.6 years 4.4 years 3.3 years Fair value 1.08 1.26 1.58 v Weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes models former GUS plans The 1998 Approved and Non-Approved Executive The North Share Option America Stock Arrangements Schemes Option Plan Share price on grant date 9.35 9.35 Exercise price 9.26 9.26 Expected volatility 29.4% 29.1% Expected dividend yield 3.5% 3.5% Risk-free rate 4.7% 4.7% Expected option life to exercise 4 years 3.75 years Fair value 2.06 2.00 The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black-Scholes model for these plans are in respect of the period from 1 April 2006 to the date of demerger.
Options over GUS plc shares granted in that period had a weighted average fair value of 2.03.
There were no options granted in respect of savings related share option schemes in that period.
vi Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options Number Weighted average of options exercise price 2008 2008 m Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited outstanding at 1 April 2007 31.4 4.73 New grants 6.3 4.96 1 Forfeitures 1.8 5.20 Cancellations 0.3 4.52 Exercised options 4.9 4.09 Expired options 0.6 4.88 Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited outstanding at 31 March 2008 30.1 4.85 Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited exercisable at 31 March 2008 8.3 4.20 1.
For arrangements which are save as you earn in nature, this includes non-leavers who have failed the savings requirement.
124 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 35.
Share-based payment arrangements continued vi Reconciliation of movement in the number of share options continued Number Weighted average of options exercise price 2007 2007 m Options in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at 1 April 2006 28.2 6.90 New grants 7.7 9.26 1 Forfeitures 0.8 7.62 Exercised options 7.1 5.71 Options in respect of shares in GUS plc at demerger 28.0 7.83 Less: options rolled over into Home Retail Group share plans 10.3 7.50 Less: GUS options forfeited post demerger 0.3 7.21 Less: GUS options exercised post demerger 0.6 7.29 GUS options rolled into Experian equivalent options 16.8 8.06 Conversion to Experian Group Limited options at the average roll-over ratio of 1.76 12.8 Experian equivalent roll-over options 29.6 4.56 Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited granted on or after demerger 4.2 5.61 1 Forfeitures 0.8 5.09 Exercised options 1.6 3.72 Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited outstanding at 31 March 2007 31.4 4.73 Options in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited exercisable at 31 March 2007 8.0 3.89 1.
vii Options in respect of Experian Group Limited shares outstanding at the end of the year At 31 March 2008 Range of Number Weighted exercise of average Weighted average remaining lives prices options exercise 1 price m Expected years Contractual years 2-3 0.2 2.85 0.4 1.1 3-4 4.2 3.75 0.6 2.8 4-5 11.9 4.62 1.5 5.1 5-6 12.7 5.34 2.6 6.9 6-7 1.1 6.12 3.4 9.2 30.1 4.85 At 31 March 2007 Range of Number Weighted exercise of average Weighted average remaining lives prices options exercise 1 price m Expected years Contractual years 2-3 0.2 2.74 1.1 2.3 3-4 7.1 3.71 0.2 3.6 4-5 10.4 4.67 1.7 6.0 5-6 13.8 5.33 3.3 7.7 31.5 4.73 1.
To the extent that GUS options have been rolled over into the Experian plans, the inputs for share price at grant date and exercise price have been rebased to be comparable with the Experian Group Limited share price at demerger and to reflect the consequent changes to option terms.
Experian Annual Report 2008 125 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 35.
Share-based payment arrangements continued b Share awards i Summary of arrangements Experian share award plans The following arrangements include awards made at and after demerger together with awards rolled over from former GUS plans: Experian Free Shares Plan and the Experian Experian Co-Investment Experian Reinvestment Experian Performance Share UK Approved Arrangements Plan Plan Plan All-Employee Plan 1 1 Nature of arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Vesting conditions: Service period 4 years 3 to 5 years 5 years 3 years Performance 100% Benchmark profit 50% Benchmark profit 50% Benchmark profit n a performance of Group performance of Group performance of Group assessed against assessed against assessed against 2 3 3 specified targets specified targets specified targets 50% n a 50% Distribution percentage determined by ranking Total Shareholder Return relative to a comparator 4 group Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at grant date Benchmark profit 100% Benchmark profit 80% Benchmark profit 79% n a Unconditional 100% TSR 52.3% Oct 2006 Grant TSR 57.4% Jun 2007 Grant TSR 29.6% Nov 2007 Grant Maximum term 4 years 5 years 5 years 3.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Expected departures at grant date 5% 5% 5% 15% 1.
The grant date is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the quantity of the shares award is determined but the underlying value of the award is known at the grant date, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome at the date of their issue to participants.
These shares are a nil consideration option but have been classified as an award of shares because of their nature.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Co-investment Plan requires Benchmark profit before tax growth to exceed 6% over a 3 year period.
The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
This is not a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Reinvestment Plan and Experian Performance Share Plan requires Benchmark profit before tax growth at least to exceed 7% over a 3 year period with the condition fully satisfied if Benchmark profit before tax growth is 14%.
The condition is applied to half of the awarded shares.
The Experian Performance Share Plan Total Shareholder Return is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
It has been valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the 3 year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian Group Limited.
126 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 35.
Share-based payment arrangements continued Former GUS share award plans The arrangements in respect of former GUS plans which were in place in the period to the date of demerger were as follows: Arrangements Co-Investment Plan Matching shares Performance Share Plan 1 Nature Grant of shares Grant of shares Vesting conditions: Service period 4 years 3 years Performance Benchmark profit performance of Distribution percentage determined Group Division assessed against by ranking Total Shareholder Return 2 specified targets relative to a comparator group Expected outcome of meeting n a 60.0% for the June 2005 grant performance criteria at grant date 50.6% for the June 2006 grant Maximum term 4 years 3 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Expected departures at grant date 7% 5% 1.
The matching shares are a nil consideration option but have been classified as an award of shares because of their nature.
This condition is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The awards were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations measured over the three year period preceding valuation.
ii Information relating to share grant valuation techniques The majority of the grants under the Experian share award plans were made on the first day of trading for Experian Group Limited shares and trading was particularly volatile on that day.
The weighted average share price for that days trading was used to determine the value of demerger share awards.
For the former GUS plans the value of awards is determined as the market closing price on the date awarded grants are issued to participants.
For the Experian Reinvestment Plan and the former GUS Co-Investment Plan, this occurs after the first year of performance is assessed.
Where appropriate market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Participants in the share award plans have an entitlement to dividend distributions on awarded shares from the issue date until the date of vesting.
The market price on the day of valuation is considered inclusive of such future dividend distributions and no modifications are made for dividend distributions or other factors.
Experian Annual Report 2008 127 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 35.
Share-based payment arrangements continued iii Reconciliation of share awards outstanding Number of awards 2008 m Awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited outstanding at 1 April 2007 24.6 New grants 2.1 Forfeitures 2.5 Vesting 0.5 Awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited outstanding at 31 March 2008 23.7 Number of awards 2007 m Awards in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at 1 April 2006 5.0 New grants 2.8 Vesting 4.2 Awards in respect of shares in GUS plc outstanding at demerger 3.6 Less: awards rolled over into Home Retail Group share plans 0.7 GUS share awards to Experian participants at demerger 2.9 Conversion to Experian awards at the average roll-over ratio of 1.78 2.3 Experian equivalent roll-over awards 5.2 Awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited on or after demerger 19.8 Forfeitures 0.4 Awards in respect of shares in Experian Group Limited outstanding at 31 March 2007 24.6 For Experian share award plans there were 2,089,674 2007: 19,780,729, including an award of 757,747 to a director shares granted in the year, with a weighted average award fair value of 5.67 2007: 5.20.
For former GUS plans there were 2,814,465 shares granted in the year ended 31 March 2007, with a weighted average award fair value of 6.74. c Modification of GUS awards to Experian participants i Details of modification Prior to demerger, Experian participants held share incentive grants with entitlement to GUS share distributions.
On demerger, the majority of outstanding options and awards were rolled over into plans with entitlement to Experian Group Limited share distributions.
As detailed below, the quantity and exercise price of options and awards were modified to maintain a compensation equivalent to that of the original GUS grants.
The incremental fair value of the modification, recognised in the year ended 31 March 2007, was US$8m which was reported as an exceptional charge.
The incremental fair value results primarily from an assumption in respect of the higher volatility of the Experian share price.
ii Information relating to modified share options and awards In the year ended 31 March 2007, a total of 16.9m GUS options were rolled over into 30.0m Experian Group Limited options.
A Black-Scholes model was used to determine the fair value of GUS and Experian Group Limited options for modified grants and the weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into these models were as follows: GUS Experian awards awards Share price on modification date 9.90 5.62 Exercise price 8.08 4.57 Expected volatility 25.6% 27.6% Expected dividend yield 3.7% 3.7% Risk-free rate 4.9% 4.9% Expected option life to exercise 3.5 years 3.5 years Fair value 2.71 1.64 In the year ended 31 March 2007, awards in respect of 4.9m GUS shares with a weighted average fair value of 8.14 per share were rolled over into 8.7m Experian shares with a weighted average fair value of 4.67 per share.
128 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 38 64 Group financial statements 35.
Share-based payment arrangements continued d Other share awards During the year ended 31 March 2007, Experian Group Limited issued put options to a small number of employees who owned an equity interest in a subsidiary.
Under the terms of the associated agreement, these options vested on 31 March 2008 assuming the employees remained with the Group and they are exercisable from that date onwards.
These options are accounted for under IFRS 2 as performance conditions are linked to employment with the subsidiary.
The options will be exercisable at a value based on 20% of the prevailing market value of the subsidiary for which these employees work and this value is capped at US$50m.
The options will be settled in Experian Group Limited shares and at the time of the agreement the expected number of shares was 122,000.
The options were purchased for US$0.7m by the employees at fair value as calculated by third party valuation specialists based on the revenue forecast model of the subsidiary.
No cost will arise over the vesting period as the purchase price of the option was its market value.
During the year ended 31 March 2008 107,000 shares with a fair value of US$1m were released in connection with this arrangement.
At 31 March 2008 the expected number of shares still to be released was 98,000. e Summary of the total cost of share-based compensation 2008 2007 US$m US$m Share options 15 30 Share awards 51 72 Total expense recognised all equity settled 66 102 1 Cost of associated social security obligations 10 4 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 76 106 The expense is reported as follows: Employee cost included in Benchmark PBT 22 34 Charge in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans excluded from Benchmark PBT 43 23 Exceptional item charge on early vesting and modification of share awards at demerger of 2 Experian and Home Retail Group 23 Exceptional item other costs incurred relating to the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group 1 7 Discontinued operations 15 Total expense recognised all equity settled 66 102 Costs of associated social security obligations: Included in Benchmark PBT 4 3 Excluded from Benchmark PBT 6 1 3 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 76 106 1.
The costs of associated social security obligations include the costs of derivatives entered into in connection with such obligations.
The charge for the year ended 31 March 2007 comprised US$15m on the early vesting of certain GUS awards at demerger and, as indicated in note c above, a charge of US$8m for the incremental fair value of modifications.
The charge for the year ended 31 March 2008 is in respect of continuing operations.
The charge for the year ended 31 March 2007 comprised US$91m in respect of continuing operations and US$15m in respect of discontinued operations.
Experian Annual Report 2008 129 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 36.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments 2008 2007 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring in: Less than one year 74 65 Between one and five years 149 150 More than five years 59 64 282 279 The Group leases offices and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Capital commitments 2008 2007 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 4 11 Intangible assets 11 15 11 38.
Contingencies In North America and Latin America, there are a number of pending and threatened litigation claims involving Experian which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes the Group would benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
Related parties The ultimate parent company of the Group is Experian Group Limited which is incorporated in Jersey.
The principal subsidiary and associate undertakings at 31 March 2008 are shown in note Q to the financial statements of that company.
The following transactions were carried out with related parties of Experian: Associates During the year the Group made net sales and recharges, under normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third parties, to FARES and its associate First Advantage Corporation of US$28m 2007: US$29m.
Amounts receivable from FARES are shown within note 21.
These amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received in the year in connection with the Groups trading with these entities.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by associates.
Subsidiaries Transactions between the ultimate parent company and its subsidiaries, and between subsidiaries, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Home Retail Group Home Retail Group is no longer a related party of the Group and there has been no charge in the year 2007: US$0.3m in respect of services provided under the terms of the demerger agreement.
At 31 March 2007, there was an amount owed by the Group to Home Retail Group of US$20m in respect of corporation tax liabilities at demerger and this balance was settled during the year ended 31 March 2008.
Other transactions with Home Retail Group are made on normal commercial terms and conditions available to third parties.
Key management personnel Remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 8.
Other than remuneration, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families in either the current or previous year.
Other related parties There were no other material related party transactions.
Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis and goods are bought on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
