Financial statements Accounting policies Basis of preparation consideration given or received plus any directly attributable The parent company financial statements of Ferrexpo plc are transaction costs.
presented as required by the Companies Act 1985 and were approved for issue on 23 March 2009.
The financial statements All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are are prepared under the historical cost convention and are recognised on the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as those that require delivery of assets within the period generally permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in paragraph The Company has not designated any financial asset as financial 2D of FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and has not assets at fair value through profit or loss.
disclosed information required by that standard, as the Groups consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is Loans and receivables included, provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the Fixed asset investments effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in Equity investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or provision for impairments.
impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Deferred tax Other Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where amortised cost using the effective interest method less any transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in impairment losses.
an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax, with the following exceptions: Loans and receivables Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as designated as either fair value through profit or loss or availablereceivable.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is amortisation process.
measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences Impairment of financial assets reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a enacted at the balance sheet date.
financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Foreign currencies Assets carried at amortised cost The Companys functional currency and presentation currency is If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and US dollars.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at the amount of the loss recognised in administration costs.
If, in a fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised Financial assets impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an Derivative financial instruments impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account, The Company does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities equity and debt securities promissory notes, trade and other A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the are recognised at fair value being the fair value of the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an 109 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Accounting policies continued existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, except for market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Employee benefit trust reserve Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Company are classified in capital and reserves, as employee benefit trust reserves and recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale issue or cancellation of equity shares.
110 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
