Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information Note 1: Corporate information.
and operation Ferrexpo plc the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom with registered office at 24 King Street, London SW1Y 6QL, UK.
Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries the Group operate a mine and processing plant near Kremenchuk in Ukraine, an interest in a port in Odessa and a sales and marketing company in Switzerland and Kiev.
The Groups operations are vertically integrated from iron ore mining through to iron ore concentrate and pellet production.
The Groups mineral properties lie within the Kremenchuk Magnetic Anomaly and are currently being exploited at the GorishnePlavninsky and Lavrikovsky deposits.
These deposits are being jointly mined as one mining complex.
The Groups operations are largely conducted through Ferrexpo plcs principal subsidiary, Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
The Group is composed of Ferrexpo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below: Equity interest owned at 31 December 2008 2007 Name Country of incorporation Principal activity % % 1 Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation Ukraine Iron ore mining 97.1 85.9 2 Ferrexpo AG Switzerland Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 100.0 3 DP Ferrotrans Ukraine Trade, transportation services 100.0 100.0 3 United Energy Company LLC Ukraine Holding company 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo UK Limited England Finance 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Services Limited Ukraine Management services and procurement 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Hong Kong Limited China Marketing services 100.0 100.0 4 Ferrexpo Yeristova GOK LLC Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 3 Nova Logistics Limited Ukraine Holding company for car tippler 51.0 1 The Groups interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo AG.
2 Ferrexpo AG was the holding company of the Group until, as a result of the pre-IPO restructuring, Ferrexpo plc became the holding company on 24 May 2007.
3 The Groups interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
4 The Groups interest in this entity is held through both Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
The Group also holds an interest of 49.9% 2007: 49.9% in TIS Ruda, a Ukrainian port located on the Black Sea.
As this is an associate, it is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements for the years presented would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The consolidated historical financial information has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for post-employment benefits and available-for-sale financial instruments, the latter measured at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, the former measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The consolidated historical financial information is presented in thousands of US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007, except for those changes detailed in note 3.
Risks in relation to the facilities and re-financing are contained in the Business Review.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated historical financial information comprises the financial statements for Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared as at the same reporting date as Ferrexpo plcs, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Business combinations Subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains effective control, and are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
Similarly, disposals of subsidiaries are deconsolidated from the date on which the Group ceases to hold effective control.
64 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Subsidiaries acquired from entities under common control, such that the ultimate controlling party has not changed as a result of the transaction, are fully consolidated from the earliest period presented, but not before the date that they came under common control.
As there is currently no specific IFRS guidance relating to this issue the Group has developed a policy that is consistent with the pronouncements under UK GAAP.
The Groups subsidiaries are accounted for using the pooling of interests method of accounting whereby net assets are pooled at their historic carrying value.
This has been applied in the accounting for Ferrexpo plcs interest in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation, the principal subsidiary.
Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries The Group has adopted the parent extension concept method of accounting for changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries.
The differences between the carrying values of net assets attributable to interests in subsidiaries acquired or disposed of and the consideration given or received for such increases are recorded as goodwill.
Investments in associates The Groups investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect to the Groups net investment in the associate.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
The reporting dates of the associates and Ferrexpo plc are identical and the associates accounting policies conform to those used by the Group.
Functional and presentational currencies Based on the economic substance of the underlying business transactions and circumstances relevant to the parent, the functional currency of the parent has been determined to be the US dollar, with each subsidiary determining its own functional currency based on its own circumstances.
The Group has chosen the US dollar as its presentation currency and Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation the principal subsidiary has determined that its functional currency is Ukrainian hryvnia.
Foreign currency translation For individual subsidiary company accounts, transactions in foreign currencies i. e. other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and non-monetary assets and liabilities at the historic rate.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
For presentation of Group consolidated accounts, if the functional currency of a subsidiary is different to the presentation currency as at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of this entity are translated into the presentation currency at the rate ruling at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated using the average exchange rate for the period.
The foreign exchange differences arising are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to the particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods including pellet sales and other sales Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Risks and rewards of the ownership of goods passes when title for the goods passes to the customer.
This is determined by the terms of the sales agreement.
Typically, sales are made FOB Free On Board, CIF Cargo Insurance and Freight or DAF Delivery At Frontier.
Other sales include the processing and sale of ore and ore concentrate, the sale of parts, materials and crushed rocks and the repair and rental of railway wagons.
Rendering of services Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised when services are complete.
Sales of services primarily include repairs and spare parts, canteen revenue and recharges to local customers for electricity consumption and railway usage.
65 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight line basis over the lease terms.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Operating foreign exchange gains and losses are those items that are directly related to the production and sale of pellets e. g. trade receivables, trade payables on operating expenditure.
Non-operating gains and losses are those associated with the Groups financing and treasury activities.
Finance income and expense Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Finance expenses comprise the interest expense on borrowings and other financial liabilities.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported after netting off such gains and losses.
Taxes Current income tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount estimated to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Swiss tax 50 50 ruling Under the Swiss tax 50 50 ruling a qualifying company can distribute a percentage of its profits free of tax.
Ferrexpo AG the former group holding company, under its former ownership, qualified to make such distributions.
The Company ceased to qualify for this treatment on the entering of its immediate owner, Ferrexpo plc, onto the London Stock Exchange on 16 June 2007.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
66 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax VAT except: where VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case VAT is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of VAT included.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements note 29.
Equity Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of Ordinary Shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Employee benefit trust reserve Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Group are classified in capital and reserves as the employee benefit trust reserve and recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Shares redemption liability The Groups contractual obligation to purchase its own equity instruments gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the redemption amount.
When the financial liability is recognised initially under IAS 39, its fair value is reclassified from equity.
Subsequently, the financial liability is carried as a long-term liability on the amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or redemption.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are reacquired treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognised in other capital reserves.
Financial assets Derivative financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities promissory notes, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value being the fair value of the consideration given or received plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are those that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The Group has not designated any financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets All investments, except for investments in associates are accounted for as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as either loans or receivables, held-tomaturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
After initial recognition available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised directly in equity.
The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair value is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
67 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised and initially measured at cost.
Subsequently, instruments with a fixed maturity are remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any transaction costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Financial liabilities which do not have a fixed maturity are subsequently carried at fair value.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced either directly or through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale assets are reviewed for evidence of impairment at each reporting date.
Impairment is necessary where an asset is found to have a significant or prolonged decline in value below its cost.
In such cases, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as availablefor-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date: whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Group as a lessee Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same bases as rental income.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the financial period incurred, except to the extent they are related to the establishment of a loan facility.
In such cases they are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility.
68 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost at the date of transition to IFRS hereinafter referred to as the cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Upon recognition, items of property, plant and equipment are divided into components, which represent items with a significant value that can be allocated to a separate depreciation period.
Overhaul costs also represent a component of an asset.
Assets are initially recognised in assets under construction and then transferred to the appropriate categories on completion.
Major spare parts and stand-by equipment qualify as property, plant and equipment when they are expected to be used during more than one period.
Expenditure incurred after the properties have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance and overhaul costs, are normally charged to the income statement in the period the costs are incurred.
In situations where it can be clearly demonstrated that the expenditure results in future economic benefits, the expenditure is capitalised as an additional cost.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated useful life which is calculated with due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Changes in estimates, which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when the item is available for use.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Except for mining assets which are depreciated using the unit of production method, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, as follows: Buildings 2050 years Plant and equipment 515 years Vehicles 715 years Fixtures and fittings 2.510 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
On acquisition the cost of property, plant and equipment is capitalised on the balance sheet.
Mining assets Mining assets comprise mine exploration, evaluation and development costs incurred up to the commencement of production.
Stripping work comprises overburden removed at the pre-production, mine extension and production stages.
Stripping costs are depreciated using a unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate.
The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase are expensed as incurred.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is not amortised but rather tested annually for impairment through a value-in-use calculation.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
Refer to note 4 for details of the approach taken and assumptions used in impairment testing.
To the extent that the fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets and liabilities is greater than the cost of investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, including mineral licences, which are acquired by the Group and which have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation Intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise mineral licence acquisition costs, which are amortised on a unit of production basis.
All other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, ranging between 1 and 20 years.
69 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for as follows: Raw materials cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Finished goods and work in progress cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Site restoration costs Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs determined by an independent expert in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted where material and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or the life of operations.
Pension obligations and other employee benefits The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian state pension scheme at the statutory rates in effect during the year, based on gross salary payments: such expense is charged in the period the related salaries are earned.
In addition, the Group has a legal obligation to compensate the Ukrainian State Pension Fund for additional pensions paid to certain categories of the current and former employees of the Group.
These obligations being unfunded are substantially similar to those typically existing under an unfunded defined benefit plan.
The Group also makes contributions to the defined benefit pension fund for employees of Ferrexpo AG.
Costs relating to these plans are accrued in the historical financial information using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Management uses actuarial techniques in calculating the liability related to this retirement obligation at each balance sheet date.
70 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Gains and losses resulting from the use of external actuarial valuation methodologies are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of the defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans and the lower of planned assets obligation for funded schemes.
These gains or losses are recognised as income or expense over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
The past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit liability is the aggregate of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and actuarial gains and losses not recognised reduced by the past service cost not yet recognised.
Earnings per share For the comparative period, 2007, the earnings per share EPS calculation has assumed that the number of Ordinary Shares issued pursuant to the share exchange agreements in relation to the acquisition of Ferrexpo AG by Ferrexpo plc have been in issue throughout 2007 which is consistent with the pooling of interests method used to account for combinations of businesses under common control.
The Directors believe that this measure of EPS provides a more meaningful comparison with the Groups ongoing business than using the statutory EPS which would only reflect shares issued based on the actual date of issue.
For 2008, the basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated based on the number weighted average shares in issue, excluding shares held in treasury.
For the current and prior year periods, basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the number of Ordinary Shares as defined above.
The number of Ordinary Shares in issue excludes the shares held by the Appleby Employee Benefits Trust and the treasury shares held by the Group.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
All share awards are potentially dilutive and have been included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, except for market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is dependent upon a market condition.
In these cases, the awards are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Long term incentive plans LTIPs The LTIPs are share based schemes whereby certain senior management and executives receive rewards based on the relative Total Shareholder Return performance of the Group compared with a group of companies which operate within a similar environment.
The cost of equity-settled awards is measured as described above together with an estimate of future social security contributions payable in respect of this value.
Where the granting of an LTIP is subject to the satisfaction of certain market conditions, a vesting charge is recognised irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where an award terminates before the performance period is complete, any unamortised expense is recognised immediately.
Events after the balance sheet date Events after the balance sheet date that provide additional information on the Groups position at the balance sheet date adjusting events are reflected in the historical financial information.
Events after the balance sheet date that are not adjusting events are disclosed in the notes when material.
Note 3: New accounting policies The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2008. International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Effective date IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions 1 January 2008 IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum 1 January 2008 funding requirements and their interaction Adoption of these standards did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group.
71 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 3: New accounting policies continued Changes occurring as a result of improvements to IFRSs In May 2008 the IASB issued its first omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The Group has early adopted the following amendments to standards: IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment IAS 23 Borrowing costs IAS 28 Investment in associates IAS 31 Interest in joint ventures IAS 36 Impairment of assets IAS 38 Intangible assets The Group amended its accounting policies where applicable however the adoption of the above standards did not have an impact upon the financial position or performance of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted The following standards and interpretations have not yet been adopted by the Group but will be applicable for future reporting periods.
Where relevant, comments as to the potential effect on the Group have been included: Revised IAS 23 Borrowing costs The revised IAS 23 will become mandatory for the Groups 2009 financial statements but currently does not apply to the Group.
In accordance with the transitional provisions the Group will apply the revised IAS 23 to qualifying assets for which capitalisation of borrowing costs commences on or after the effective date.
IFRS 8 Operating segments This standard will replace IAS 14 Segment reporting from 1 January 2009 onwards and will be applied prospectively.
It may result in changes to the way the Groups operating segments are identified and the disclosures required.
Amendment to IFRS 2 Share based payments Vesting conditions and cancellations The amendment is mandatory for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and the Group is currently assessing its impact on the financial statements, although it is not expected to be material.
Amendment to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements The revision will be effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revision to IAS 27 will have to be applied prospectively.
The new requirements affect only the parents separate financial statement and do not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 3R Business combinations and IAS 27R Consolidated and separate financial statements The revised standards were issued in January 2008 and become effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The changes will affect future acquisitions or loss of control and transactions with minority interests.
The standards may be early applied, however the Group does not intend to take advantage of this possibility.
Revised IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements The revised standard was issued in September 2007 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity and introduces the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group is still evaluating the impact of these changes.
Improvements to IFRSs The Group has early adopted some of the amendments to standards following the 2007 Improvement to IFRSs project where it was considered that these were appropriate to improve the quality of the financial information or disclosure.
The Group has not yet adopted the following amendments and anticipates that these changes will have no material effect on the financial statements.
These amendments are: IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures IAS 8 Accounting policies, change in accounting estimates and errors IAS 10 Events after the reporting period IAS 18 Revenue IAS 19 Employee benefits IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements IAS 34 Interim financial reporting IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement 72 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Note 4: Use of estimates The preparation of historical financial information in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the historical financial information and accompanying notes.
These estimates are based on information available as at the date of authorising the historical financial information for issue.
Actual results, therefore, could differ from those estimates.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial information are described in the following notes: Property, plant and equipment The determination of fair value and value in use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be impaired and the impairment would be charged against the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment items of the Group were subject to a valuation as at 1 January 2003, the date of Groups transition to IFRS, performed by independent appraisers.
The value of buildings and construction was determined with reference to the market value.
Buildings and construction of a specialised nature were valued at their depreciated replacement cost.
This fair value has been adopted by the Group as the deemed cost at the transition date to IFRS.
Goodwill and other intangibles Formal impairment tests are carried out annually for goodwill.
Formal impairment tests for all other assets are performed when there is an indication of impairment.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
The Group conducts annually an internal review of asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any indications of impairment.
External factors, such as changes in expected future processes, costs and other market factors are also monitored to assess for indications of impairment.
If any indication of impairment exists an estimate of the assets recoverable amount is calculated.
The recoverable amount is determined as the higher of fair value less direct costs to sell and the assets value in use.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
Fair value for mining assets is generally determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal, using assumptions that an independent market participant may take into account.
These cash flows are discounted by an appropriate discount rate to arrive at a net present value of the asset.
Value in use is determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is determined by applying assumptions specific to the Groups continued use and cannot take into account future development.
These assumptions are different to those used in calculating fair value and consequently the value in use calculation is likely to give a different result usually lower to a fair value calculation.
In testing for indications of impairment and performing impairment calculations, assets are considered as collective groups and referred to as cash generating units.
Cash generating units are the smallest identifiable group of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to one cash generating unit.
This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 20 years.
The impairment assessments are based on a range of estimates and assumptions, including: Estimates assumptions: Basis: Future production Proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and, in certain cases, expansion projects Commodity prices Contract prices, and longer-term price protocol estimates Exchange rates Current market exchange rates Discount rates Cost of capital risk adjusted for the resource concerned 73 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 4: Use of estimates continued Fair value of financial instruments Where the fair value of financial assets and liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques including the discounted cash flows models.
The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values.
The judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
Defined benefit pension liability The valuation for defined benefit superannuation schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Provision for site restoration The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of site restoration provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions such as: requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and the timing, extent and costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision recognised is periodically reviewed and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the time.
Changes to the estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting both the closure and rehabilitation asset and provision.
Deferred income tax The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements judgement as to the types of arrangements considered to be a tax on income in contrast to an operating cost.
Judgement is also required in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences in investments, caused principally by retained earnings held in foreign tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation of retained earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur in the foreseeable future.
Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits and repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities recognised on the balance sheet and the amount of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, some, or all, of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
Note 5: Segment information Segment reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing products or services business segment, or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
Segment information is presented in respect of the Groups operational and geographical segments.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Primary reporting format Business segments The Groups activity is primarily the processing and sale of iron ore and for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements only one business segment is therefore identified as a reportable segment.
Secondary reporting format Geographical segments The Group operated in two distinct geographical segments for the processing and sale of iron ore for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Groups principal mining operations are based in Ukraine and Ferrexpo plc being based in Switzerland.
74 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Revenue Sales to external customers Ukraine 185,339 136,757 Switzerland 931,515 561,459 Total 1,116,854 698,216 Other segment information Segment assets Ukraine 596,845 593,134 Switzerland 132,044 106,018 1 Unallocated 125,146 168,789 Total 854,035 867,941 Segment liabilities Ukraine 71,498 64,946 Switzerland 304,909 207,274 2 Unallocated 19,736 8,799 Total 396,143 281,019 Capital expenditure Property, plant and equipment Ukraine 241,364 94,188 Switzerland 43,659 1,182 Total 285,023 95,370 Intangible fixed assets Ukraine 1,431 482 Switzerland 166 Total 1,597 482 Depreciation and amortisation Ukraine 33,481 27,832 Switzerland 644 433 Total 34,125 28,265 1 Segment assets do not include deferred tax of US$14,043,314 2007: US$8,107,000, loans to associates of US$9,000,000 2007: US$5,000,000 and goodwill of US$102,102,995 2007: US$155,682,000 as these assets are managed on a group basis.
2 Segment liabilities do not include deferred tax of US$5,297,503 2007: US$1,025,000 and current tax payable of US$14,438,454 2007: US$7,774,000 as these assets are managed on a group basis.
3 All investments in associates were held in Ukraine for both the 2007 and 2008 financial years.
Refer to note 14 for details.
Note 6: Revenue Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Revenue from sales of ore pellets: Export 973,420 560,805 Ukraine 134,413 128,731 1,107,833 689,536 Revenue from services provided 1,229 3,005 Revenue from other sales 7,792 5,675 1,116,854 698,216 75 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 6: Revenue continued Export sales by geographical destination were as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Austria 298,209 160,324 Serbia 170,972 83,708 China 173,761 103,223 Slovakia 117,093 81,516 Czech Republic 80,746 55,617 Russia 42,606 Poland 31,708 23,766 Turkey 30,649 9,777 Bulgaria 12,189 27,389 Italy 10,340 3,418 Japan 34 5,029 Romania 7,038 Other 5,113 973,420 560,805 During the year ended 31 December 2008 sales made to three customers accounted for approximately 52.5% of the net sales revenue 2007: 53.9%.
Note 7: Cost of sales Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Materials 98,020 98,733 Purchased ore and concentrate 47,491 17,587 Electricity 92,021 74,621 Personnel costs 68,781 47,402 Spare parts and consumables 32,034 14,663 Depreciation and amortisation 28,860 25,635 Fuel 41,517 28,086 Gas 34,106 25,576 Royalties and levies 6,764 8,570 Stock movement 19,596 6,284 Other 4,240 1,347 434,238 335,936 Cost of sales is reconciled to C1 costs in the following manner: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Cost of sales 434,238 335,936 Depreciation and amortisation 28,860 25,635 Purchased ore and concentrate 47,491 17,587 Processing costs for purchased ore and concentrate 5,418 Production cost of gravel 375 2,101 Stock movement in the period 19,596 6,284 Pension service costs 5,058 1,877 Other 2,214 2,879 C1 cost 364,418 279,573 Own ore produced tonnes 8,607,500 8,793,000 C1 cash cost per tonne US$ 42.34 31.79 76 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 C1 costs represent the cash costs of production of own ore divided by production volume of own ore, and excludes non cash costs such as depreciation, pension costs and stock movement, costs of purchased ore, concentrate and production cost of gravel and excludes one-off items which are outside the definition of EBITDA.
Note 8: Selling and distribution expenses Selling and distribution expenses for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Railway transportation 95,477 58,358 Other transportation 43,697 34,914 Agent fees 1,656 2,025 Custom duties 1,678 1,101 Advertising 2,395 1,816 Personnel cost 1,448 827 Depreciation 1,406 575 Other 4,771 998 152,528 100,614 Note 9: General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Personnel costs 38,900 20,428 Buildings and maintenance 3,092 1,900 Taxes other than income tax and other charges 4,185 3,674 Social responsibility costs 1,521 Consulting and other professional fees 6,684 6,363 Depreciation and amortisation 3,137 2,055 Communication 826 425 Vehicles maintenance and fuel 1,096 1,016 Repairs 1,120 422 Audit fees 1,348 1,089 Non audit 1,469 584 Security 1,641 769 Research 352 393 Other 3,335 3,669 67,185 44,308 Auditor remuneration paid in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiary companies and for the provision of other services not in connection with the audit are disclosed below: Auditor remuneration Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Audit United Kingdom 73 78 Overseas 1,275 1,011 Other services provided by auditors United Kingdom 20 12 Overseas 1,449 12,080 Total auditor remuneration 2,817 13,181 77 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 9: General and administrative expenses continued Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Statutory audit services Ferrexpo plc Annual Report 1,058 1,021 Subsidiary entities 290 68 1,348 1,089 Non-audit services IPO related fees 11,508 Tax advisory 742 134 Assurance related services 639 450 Other 88 1,469 12,092 Total auditor remuneration 2,817 13,181 Note 10: Other income Other income for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Sale of surplus maintenance spares 3,434 3,643 Lease income 1,090 598 Reversal of fines and penalties 926 Other income 937 603 6,387 4,844 Note 11: Other expenses Other expenses for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Charitable donations 6,081 2,971 Doubtful debts expense 18,755 Loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment 1,280 Other personnel costs 1,056 Translation differences arising on consolidation 5,992 Other 4,876 2,125 38,040 5,096 The doubtful debts expense relates to receivables from certain customers in Russia and other former CIS countries that are experiencing difficulties in clearing their debt as a result of worsening economic conditions.
Note 12: Foreign exchange gains and losses Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Operating foreign exchange gains Revaluation of trade receivables 31,200 Revaluation of trade payables 1,891 29,309 Nonoperating foreign exchange losses Revaluation of interestbearing loans 85,907 Revaluation of cash equivalents 13,422 Other 303 3,467 72,788 3,467 78 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Note 13: Write-offs and impairment losses Impairment losses relate to adjustments made against the carrying value of assets where this is higher than the recoverable amount.
Write-offs and impairment losses for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.08 31.12.07 Write-off write-up of inventories 941 544 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 21 2,112 Impairment of available-for-sale assets 23 26,364 27,326 1,568 Note 14: Investments in associates As at 31 December 2008 investments in associates comprised: As at As at Country of 31.12.08 31.12.07 Principal activity incorporation Ownership % US$000 US$000 TIS Ruda Port development Ukraine 49.9 18,640 17,637 18,640 17,637 For the year ended 31 December the summarised financial information for the associate was as follows: Total assets Total liabilities Revenue Net profit As at As at As at As at Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 TIS Ruda 29,672 34,823 9,048 5,422 18,865 5,778 2,010 1,377 The information above is for 100% of the associate named and not as a percentage based on Group ownership.
The movement in the investment in the year represents the Groups share of profit of US$1,003,000 in TIS Ruda 2007: US$687,000.
TIS Ruda operates a port on the Black Sea which the Group uses as part of its distribution channel.
Note 15: Negative goodwill Negative goodwill arose as a result of several equity transactions in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation during the period: Rights issues On 30 June 2008 Ferrexpo AG purchased additional shares in the company to which certain minorities did not participate, thus increasing its shareholding from 85.9% to 87.8%.
As a result Ferrexpo AG held a larger proportion of previously generated retained profit.
The resulting negative goodwill of $5,077,018 was recognised in the income statement in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on accounting for changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries.
A second rights issue occurred on 16 December 2008, increasing Ferrexpo AGs shareholding to 90.9%.
This resulted in an additional negative goodwill charge of $5,027,479.
Repurchase of shares from DCM On 22 December 2008, Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation repurchased its own shares from DCM Decometal International Trading GmbH DCM.
These shares were placed in treasury for cancellation or subsequent sale to its principal shareholder, Ferrexpo AG.
Ferrexpo AGs shareholding increased to 97.1%, which resulted in a further negative goodwill charge of US$24,944,267 recognised through the income statement.
79 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 16: Initial public offering costs Initial public offering costs for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Consultants and other professional fees 45,496 Management listing bonus cash 11,332 Management listing bonus share award 4,257 9,064 Other 137 4,120 65,892 Charged to: Income statement 4,120 34,004 Share premium reserve 31,888 4,120 65,892 In addition to the management listing bonus charge during the year a further 441,850 shares remain unvested at 31 December 2008 2007: 2,403,000 note 44.
Note 17: Finance income expense Finance income and expenses for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Finance income Interest income on bank deposits 1,448 2,457 Other finance revenue 1,019 785 2,467 3,242 Finance expense Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 15,002 21,493 Interest on defined benefit plans 1,776 1,490 Bank charges 336 1,642 Other finance costs 3,720 1,325 20,834 25,950 Net finance expense 18,367 22,708 Other finance costs includes the unwinding of the discount on the site restoration provision, discounting of the share redemption liability and other costs.
Note 18: Income tax expense The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Current income tax 79,016 31,163 Deferred income tax 16,483 4,438 62,533 26,725 Refer to note 25 for a breakdown of the deferred tax balances.
The effective income tax rate differs from the corporate income tax rates.
The weighted average statutory rate was 18.2% for 2008 2007: 17.6%.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries, as included in the consolidated financial information.
80 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The changes in the weighted average income tax rate are largely due to a change in the profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
A reconciliation between the income tax charged in the accompanying financial information and income before taxes multiplied by the weighted average statutory tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2008 is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Profit before tax 375,581 160,760 Notional tax computed at the weighted average statutory tax rate of 18.2% 2007: 17.6% 68,496 28,234 50 50 Swiss tax ruling 472 Derecognition of deferred tax asset 4,359 Inflation related indexation of fixed assets for tax 12,456 6,084 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 9,669 4,675 Tax effect on asset impairment and negative goodwill 7,849 Tax related to prior years 286 32 Other 600 340 Income tax expense 62,533 26,725 Note 19: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
The number of shares was assumed to be constant throughout 2007, the year of the Groups Initial Public Offering.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.08 31.12.07 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders: Basic earnings per share US cents 48.60 20.41 Diluted earnings per share US cents 48.46 20.33 Underlying earnings for the year: Basic earnings per share US cents 57.74 24.96 Diluted earnings per share US cents 57.58 24.86 The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended Thousands 31.12.08 31.12.07 Weighted average number of shares Basic number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 601,697 607,796 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 1,717 2,403 Diluted number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 603,414 610,199 The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated by reducing the total number or Ordinary Shares in issue by the shares held in treasury refer to note 31.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
81 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 19: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed continued Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the Directors believe provides a clearer picture of the underlying financial performance of the Groups operations.
Underlying earnings is presented after minority interests and excludes adjusted items.
The calculation of underlying earnings per share is based on the following earnings data: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.08 31.12.07 Profit attributable to equity holders 292,436 124,076 Write offs impairments 13 27,326 1,568 IPO costs 16 4,120 34,004 Negative goodwill generated on rights issue 15 35,049 Gain on disposal of available-forsale investment 1,571 4,714 Non-operating foreign exchange losses 12 72,788 Tax on adjusted items 12,619 3,217 Underlying earnings 347,431 151,717 Adjusted items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Adjusted items that relate to the operating performance of the Group include impairment charges and reversals and other exceptional items.
Non-operating adjusted items include gains and losses on disposal of investments and businesses and non-operating foreign exchange gains and losses.
Dividends paid and proposed Year ended US$000 31.12.08 Dividends proposed Final dividend for 2008: 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share 20,000 Total 20,000 Dividends paid during the period Interim dividend for 2008: 3.2 US cents per Ordinary Share 19,505 Final dividend for 2007: 3.2 US cents per Ordinary Share 19,449 Total 38,954 Note 20: EBITDA The Group calculates EBITDA as profit from continuing operations before tax and finance plus depreciation and amortisation included in cost of sales, administrative expenses and selling and distribution costs and non-recurring cash items included in other income, non-recurring cash items included in other costs plus the net gain loss from disposal of subsidiaries and associates.
The Group presents EBITDA because it believes that EBITDA is a useful measure for evaluating its ability to generate cash and its operating performance.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.08 31.12.07 Profit before tax and finance 466,736 186,935 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 27,326 1,568 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investment 1,571 4,714 Initial public offering costs 16 4,120 34,004 Share based payments 44 1,495 Negative goodwill generated on rights issue 15 35,049 Severance payments 6,764 Depreciation and amortisation 34,125 28,264 EBITDA 503,946 246,057 The severance payments disclosed above relate to the amounts paid to the former CEO and the Director of Business Development upon their resignation.
US$61,966,218 2007: US$114,388,000 of property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for liabilities.
The gross value of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that is still in use is US$26,745,388 2007: US$32,782,165.
83 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 22: Goodwill and other intangible assets As at 31 December 2008 goodwill and other intangible assets comprised: Other intangible US$000 Goodwill assets Total At 1 January 2007 155,682 1,346 157,028 Additions 482 482 Disposals 47 47 At 31 December 2007 155,682 1,781 157,463 Additions 1,597 1,597 Disposals 13 13 Translation differences 53,578 1,125 54,703 At 31 December 2008 102,104 2,240 104,344 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2007 494 494 Amortisation charge 189 189 Disposals 47 47 At 31 December 2007 636 636 Amortisation charge 279 279 Disposals 13 13 Translation differences 313 313 At 31 December 2008 589 589 Net carrying amount at : 31 December 2007 155,682 1,145 156,827 31 December 2008 102,104 1,651 103,755 The major component of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2008 comprises licences in respect of the Groups mining operations.
The amortisation charge for the year is allocated to production expenses and administrative expenses as appropriate.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment purposes to one cash-generating unit, as the Group only has one primary operational segment, being the production and sale of iron ore.
Impairment testing was performed at 31 December 2008 based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections over a 20-year period, a common practice in the industry.
The cash flow projection was based on the financial budget approved by senior management.
Key assumptions The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations were the iron ore price US$79-$96 per tonne, production volume, raw materials and other production inputs cost evolution, the year-end USD-UAH spot rate and the discount rate.
The cash flows were projected based on management expectations regarding the development of the iron ore and steel market, as well as the cost of producing and distributing the pellets.
These future cash flows were discounted using the real pre-tax discount rate of 15% per annum.
This rate was fixed by management, and is in line with the rates used by competitors with a similar background.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that no reasonable change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its value in use.
84 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Note 23: Available-for-sale financial assets As at 31 December 2008 available-for-sale financial assets comprised: Ownership % Carrying value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 Current Marketable Securities 102 Investments available for sale equity instruments: Vostock Ruda 1.10% 3.20% 650 2,839 650 2,941 Non-current Promissory notes available for sale 14 Investments available-for-sale equity instruments: OJSC Stahanov 3.14% 9.91% 435 12,493 LLC Atol 9.95% 9.95% 4,000 26,720 CJSC AMA 9.00% 9.00% 3,560 CJSC Amtek 9.00% 9.00% 4,250 First Investment Bank 0.32% 94 Slavutich-Ruda Ukrania Ltd 1.00% 2 Dopomoga Ltd 19.00% 1 4,435 47,134 All investments relate to companies incorporated in Ukraine.
Impairment testing Ferrexpo Petroleum The fair value of the unquoted equity investment in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek, companies engaged in the exploration and development of oil and gas fields in the Poltava Region of Ukraine is determined by management using a discounted cash flow projection, having taken into account the estimated value of reserves provided by an expert third party valuer.
The key assumptions used in this calculation were gas condensate prices, gas oil condensate conversion rates, production volumes, production costs, tax rates, projected capital expenditure, the USD-UAH exchange rate and the discount rate.
The calculation took into account the projected future cash flows attributable to the  licence projected to make up 7585% of the total value of the investment over a period of 14 years the length of the licence with an applied real discount rate of 14.5% per annum.
As a result of the above review, management recognised impairment charges against carrying value of investment in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek.
The total fair value of the investment was determined as $4m, being entirely attributable to LLC Atol.
OJSC Stahanov The value of OJSC Stahanov was impaired based on the quoted market price for the companys shares on the Ukrainian stock exchange PFTS as of 31 December 2008.
Further details regarding available-for-sale investments can be found in note 38 related party transactions.
Note 24: Other non-current assets As at 31 December 2008 other non-current assets comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 6,922 10,869 Loan provided to associate 3,000 4,000 Other non-current assets 194 310 10,116 15,179 85 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 25: Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2008 relate to the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Trade and other receivables 4,138 587 Trade and other payables and advance receivables 44 57 Property, plant and equipment 8,843 1,819 IPO costs netted against share premium 1,725 5,179 Tax losses recognised 1,564 Accrued expenses 3,235 1,557 Defined benefit liability 1,370 552 Provision for site restoration 269 436 Other provisions and accruals 146 72 Other items 99 35 Deferred tax asset 19,869 11,858 Thereof netted against deferred tax liabilities 5,826 3,751 Deferred tax asset per the balance sheet 14,043 8,107 Inventories 4,164 1,232 Property, plant and equipment 170 295 Exploration rights 154 Advances and other current assets 1,593 1,803 Loans and borrowings 332 507 Employee benefit trust 4,442 Trade and other payables and advance receivables 423 785 Deferred tax liability 11,124 4,776 Thereof netted against deferred tax assets 5,826 3,751 Deferred tax liability per the balance sheet 5,298 1,025 Net deferred tax asset 8,745 7,082 The movement in the deferred income tax liabilities and assets is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Beginning of the year 7,082 2,535 Income statement credit 16,483 4,438 Changes booked through equity 7,896 5,179 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustment 6,924 End of the year 8,745 7,082 As at 31 December 2008, the Group had deductible temporary differences on current financial receivables in the amount of US$7,180,000 for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group had deductible temporary differences on defined benefit liabilities in the amount of US$13,912,000 for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised.
Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$181,204,000 2007: US$126,582,000.
86 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Note 26: Inventories As at 31 December 2008 inventories comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Raw materials and consumables 41,889 50,678 Finished ore pellets 15,456 3,251 Work in progress 4,294 2,848 Other 76 Provision for slow moving and obsolete stock 445 232 61,270 56,545 Stock is held at cost or fully provided for through the provision for slow-moving and obsolete stock provision above.
Note 27: Trade and other receivables At 31 December 2008 trade and other receivables comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Trade receivables 70,113 43,976 Allowance for uncollectability 11,956 401 58,157 43,575 Trade receivables at 31 December 2008 includes US$1,898,000 2007: US$1,374,000 owed by related parties.
The Groups exposure to credit and currency risks and impairment losses are disclosed in note 43.
The movement in the allowance for uncollectability in the year was: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Opening balance 401 65 Arising in the year 18,629 336 Reversal 320 Foreign currency translation 6,754 Closing balance 11,956 401 Note 28: Prepayments and other current assets As at 31 December 2008 prepayments and other current assets comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Prepayments to suppliers Electricity and gas 1,830 3,419 Materials and spare parts 2,954 1,587 Services 2,059 2,574 Loan provided to associate 6,000 1,000 Accounts receivable and prepaid expenses 663 811 Accrued income 4,639 Other 1,442 1,382 19,587 10,773 87 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 29: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid The income tax payable balance as of 31 December 2008 is shown below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Opening balance 2,367 3,223 Income statement charge 79,016 31,521 Tax paid 67,217 32,507 Changes booked through equity 4,125 Foreign exchange adjustment 1,437 130 Income tax payable at the year end 8,604 2,367 Split by: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Income tax receivable balance 5,835 5,350 Income tax payable balance 14,439 7,717 Income tax payable at the year end 8,604 2,367 As at 31 December 2008 taxes recoverable and prepaid comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 VAT receivable 57,244 52,037 Other taxes prepaid 41 325 Other taxes recoverable and prepaid 57,285 52,362 The VAT receivable is as a result of zero rate VAT exports made from Ukraine which is recoverable under Ukrainian tax legislation.
Note 30: Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2008 cash and cash equivalents comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Cash at bank 87,819 86,963 Petty cash 3 3 87,822 86,966 Cash at bank includes an amount of US$1,046,000 held in an escrow account at 31 December 2008 2007: nil which is unavailable to the Group.
This amount was released subsequent to year end.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 43.
Note 31: Share capital and reserves Number US$000 of shares Balance at 1 January 2007 2 Issue of new shares on 21 May 2007 99 49,998 Subdivision of shares 450,000 Issue of new shares on 24 May 2007 105,516 533,043,489 Initial public offering on 15 June 2007 14,434 72,527,361 Issue of new shares on 25 June 2007 1,579 7,897,106 Balance at 31 December 2007 and 2008 121,628 613,967,956 The closing balance includes 25,343,814 shares which are held in treasury.
Share capital represents the nominal value on issue of the Companys equity share capital, comprising 0.10 Ordinary Shares.
88 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 On 21 May 2007 Ferrexpo plc allotted and issued 49,998 Ordinary Shares in the Company at par value of 1 each $98,620.
Following the allotment, Ferrexpo plcs total issued and authorised share capital was subdivided into 500,000 Ordinary Shares of 0.10 each.
The Companys authorised share capital was subsequently increased to 60,050,000 divided into 600,500,000 shares of 0.10 each.
On 24 May 2007, Ferrexpo plc allotted and issued 533,043,489 Ordinary Shares in the Company at a par value of 0.10 each US$105,515,959 to Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. in exchange for 129,944,923 registered shares of CHF1 each in the capital of Ferrexpo AG.
Pursuant to such transaction, Ferrexpo plc became the sole shareholder of Ferrexpo AG.
As this transaction involved the combination of businesses under common control, the pooling of interests method of accounting has been applied in the presentation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2008, which present the results of the Group as if the Ferrexpo plc had always been the parent company of the Group.
On 15 June 2007, the Companys Ordinary Shares were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The global offer comprised 152,097,932 Ordinary Shares of 0.10 each at a price of 1.40, of which 72,527,361 new Ordinary Shares of 0.10 each were issued by the Company US$14,433,743 and 79,570,571 were Ordinary Shares of 0.10 each sold by the existing shareholder.
Gross proceeds of 101,538,305 US$202,072,000 were received by the Company following the issue of the new Ordinary Shares.
The authorised and fully paid share capital of Ferrexpo plc at 31 December 2008 was 613,967,956 2007: 613,967,956 Ordinary Shares at a par value of 0.10 paid for in cash, resulting in share capital of US$121,627,585 2007: US$121,627,585 per the balance sheet.
Share premium Share premium represents the premium paid by subscribers to the share capital issues, net of costs directly attributable to the share issue.
Treasury share reserve During September 2008, Ferrexpo plc completed a buyback of 25,343,814 shares for a total cost US$77,260,476.
These shares are currently held as treasury shares by the Group.
The Companies Act 2006 forbids the exercise of any rights including voting rights and the payment of dividends in respect of treasury shares.
Employee benefit trust shares During June 2007, Ferrexpo AG completed a buyback of 7,897,016 shares which were then held in treasury.
On the 25 June 2007 Ferrexpo plc allotted and issued 7,897,016 Ordinary Shares of 0.10 in the Company US$1,579,263 fully paid at a premium of 1.75 to the Ferrexpo AG Listing Bonus Trust the employee benefit trust in exchange for 2,000,000 shares of CHF 1 in the capital of Ferrexpo AG, representing the treasury shares held by Ferrexpo AG, setting up a employee benefit trust reserve.
The reserve is used to satisfy future grants of shares in connection with the listing bonus, as well as future senior management incentivisation schemes.
Uniting of interest reserve The uniting of interest reserve represents the difference between the initial investment by Ferrexpo AG in Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation to gain control of the subsidiary in 2005 and the net assets acquired, which under the pooling of interests method of accounting are consolidated at their historic cost, less minority interests.
Subsequent increases in the stake have been accounted for using the parent extension concept method of accounting as described in the accounting policy section.
Net unrealised gains reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments.
Translation reserve The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising on the translation of non-US dollar i. e. hryvnia functional currency operations within the Group into US dollars.
89 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 32: Interest bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost.
All loans are in US dollars.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 43.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Current Ukrainian banks 738 738 Other banks 71,715 53,532 Interest accrued 2,070 14 Total current borrowings 74,523 54,284 Non-current Ukrainian banks 24,659 2,578 Other banks 206,714 143,430 Total non-current borrowings 231,373 146,008 Total interest bearing borrowings 305,896 200,292 As at 31 December 2008 the Ukrainian bank loans are secured by property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of US$61,966,218 2007: US$114,388,000.
Secured Ukrainian property, plant and equipment includes pellet production equipment, locomotives, mine transport equipment, excavators and crushing equipment.
Non-Ukraine bank loans are secured by rights to proceeds from future export sales of US$775,173,008 2007: US$584,218,303.
As at 31 December 2008 the Groups major bank debt facility was a US$335,000,000 2007: US$335,000,000 pre-export finance facility with an unutilised amount of US$nil 2007: US$135,000,000.
The term loan and revolving credit facilities are guaranteed and secured.
Ferrexpo AG has assigned the rights to revenue from certain sales contracts and Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation has assigned all of its rights for 10 export contracts for the pellets sales in 2008.
In addition the Group has also pledged its bank account into which all proceeds from the sale of certain iron ore pellet contracts are received.
Ferrexpo AG has pledged all its rights under certain contacts for the sale of iron ore pellets and its rights under certain related credit support documents.
It should also be noted that Ferrexpo AG is subject to minimum capital requirements which restrict the amount of profit that can be distributed to the parent.
Note 33: Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2008 trade and other payables comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Current trade and other payables Due for equipment 3,821 Commodity loans 1,446 1,664 Materials and services 23,114 21,108 Letter of credit exercised by the bank 218 Promissory notes 797 253 Dividends payable 312 1,197 Liability for severance payments 1,046 Other 4,497 940 Trade and other payables, current 35,033 25,380 Non-current trade and other payables Commodity loans 570 2,569 Promissory notes 83 Other 14 Trade and other payables, non-current 570 2,666 Trade and other payables at 31 December 2008 includes $1,909,000 2007: $3,285,000 due to related parties.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 43.
90 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Note 34: Defined benefit pension liability Ukrainian defined benefit plan The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian state pension scheme at the statutory rates in effect during the year, based on gross salary payments.
Such expense is charged in the period the related salaries are earned.
Costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Actuarial techniques have been used in calculating the liability related to this retirement obligation at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses resulting from the use of internal actuarial valuation methodologies are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of defined benefit obligation.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit liability is the aggregate of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and actuarial gains and losses not recognised reduced by past service cost not yet recognised At 31 December 2008 this defined benefit plan covered 4,673 current employees.
There are 1,213 former employees currently in receipt of pensions.
In addition, the Group has a legal obligation to its employees in the form of a collective agreement to make a one off payment on retirement to employees with a long-term of service which have also been included in the provision.
Swiss defined benefit plan The Groups employees participate in the second pillar of the Swiss State regulated pension scheme.
On retirement employees are entitled to either receive a lump sum or an annual proportion of their final salary as a pension based on the value of the assets held at that time underpinned by certain guarantees.
The Company and in certain cases the employees make a contribution to the scheme of up to 6% of salary.
At 31 December 2008 this defined benefit plan covered 23 people 2007: 18 people.
91 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 34: Defined benefit pension liability continued Changes in the net present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: As at 31.12.08 As at 31.12.07 Swiss Ukrainian Swiss Ukrainian US$000 scheme scheme Total scheme scheme Total Opening defined benefit obligation 1,647 18,853 20,500 15,446 15,446 Recognition of plan liability 1,096 1,096 Current Service cost 310 1,607 1,917 459 1,994 2,453 Interest cost 46 1,730 1,776 45 1,445 1,490 Contribution by plan participants 697 697 302 302 Benefits paid 766 4,103 4,869 311 1,972 2,283 Actuarial loss 52 6,167 6,219 56 1,940 1,996 Past service cost 9,972 9,972 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 110 12,039 11,929 Closing defined benefit obligation 2,096 22,187 24,283 1,647 18,853 20,500 Opening assets 1,039 1,039 Recognition of plan assets 832 832 Expected return on plan assets 33 33 27 27 Employer contribution 274 274 291 291 Contribution by plan participants 942 942 302 302 Benefits paid 766 766 311 311 Actuarial loss 84 84 102 102 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 69 69 Closing assets 1,507 1,507 1,039 1,039 Net funded status 589 22,187 22,776 608 18,853 19,461 Unrecognised actuarial losses 527 5,767 6,294 417 2,875 3,292 Unrecognised past service cost 5,543 5,543 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 2,001 2,001 Defined benefit liability at the end of the year 62 12,878 12,940 191 15,978 16,169 Benefit expense Current service cost 310 1,607 1,917 459 1,994 2,453 Interest cost 46 1,730 1,776 45 1,445 1,490 Amortisation of actuarial loss 30 92 62 17 17 Expected return on plan assets 33 33 27 27 Recognised past service cost 4,429 4,429 Curtailment gain 162 162 131 7,858 7,989 494 3,439 3,933 Net movement on defined benefit liability Balance at beginning of the year 191 15,978 16,169 14,501 14,501 Recognition of liability 11 11 Benefits expense 131 7,858 7,989 494 3,439 3,933 Benefits paid 4,103 4,103 1,972 1,972 Employer contribution 274 274 291 291 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 14 6,855 6,841 1 10 9 Balance at the end of the year 62 12,878 12,940 191 15,978 16,169 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 52 6,167 6,219 417 1,930 2,347 92 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The asset allocation of the plan assets of the Swiss scheme is as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.07 Scheme assets at fair value % % Equities 15.3 231 17.6 183 Bonds 53.4 805 53.7 558 Properties 19.4 292 13.8 143 Other 11.9 179 14.9 155 Fair value of scheme assets 100 1,507 100 1,039 The principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are shown below: Year ended Year ended 31.12.08 31.12.07 Swiss Swiss Scheme Scheme % % Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 6.50 6.50 Bonds 2.50 2.50 Properties 4.50 4.50 Total 3.43 3.36 Actual rate of return on plan assets: Equities 47.10 1.02 Bonds 0.47 0.77 Properties 6.05 6.87 Total 11.38 0.24 Year ended 31.12.08 Year ended 31.12.07 Swiss Ukrainian Swiss Ukrainian Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme Discount rate 3.25% 10% 3.25% 10% Retail price inflation 2.40% 6% 0.7% 6.5% Future benefit increase 3.00% 7.61% 1.5% 7.6% Female mortality rate years 86.9 74.74 85.5 74.74 Male mortality rate years 83.5 63.46 82.90 63.46 The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
The experience gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2008 were: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.06 31.12.05 Unrecognised loss at start of year 3,292 945 286 5 Loss on experience on the liability 6,185 2,347 659 855 Gain on change in assumptions 572 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 3,183 2 Unrecognised loss at the end of year 6,294 3,292 945 286 Note 35: Provision for site restoration The costs of decommissioning open pit mines are based on the amounts determined by third party experts on the basis of Ukrainian legislation.
The provision represents the discounted value of the estimated costs to decommission and restore the mines at the dates the deposits are expected to be depleted.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a nominal pre-tax discount rate of 12% per year 2007: 15%.
The liability becomes payable at the end of the useful life of the mine, currently estimated to be 2035.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
The addition in the year represents a re-evaluation of the liability in 2008.
93 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 35: Provision for site restoration continued US$000 Balance as at 1 January 2007 402 Unwind of the discount 75 Arising during the year 1,269 Balance as at 31 December 2007 1,746 Unwind of the discount 269 Arising during the year 385 Translation adjustment 559 Balance as at 31 December 2008 1,071 Note 36: Accrued liabilities and deferred income As at 31 December 2008 accrued liabilities and deferred income comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Accrued expenses 3,413 2,162 Accrued interest payable 15 Accrued employee costs 10,993 11,386 Advances from customers 64 249 14,470 13,812 Note 37: Shares redemption liability In October 2003, JSC Poltava GOK sold 15% of its shares to DCM Decometal International Trading GmbH DCM subject to a deferred obligation to repurchase these shares at a fixed price of US$11.0m, payable in two instalments on 20 November 2008 and 20 December 2008.
The amount was payable in US dollars with the resulting foreign exchange loss being recorded in the books of Ferrexpo Poltava GOK Corporation.
The share redemption liability represents the present value in respect of this contractual obligation.
On 22 December 2008 Ferrexpo Poltava GOK repurchased the shares owned by DCM refer to note 15.
As a result, the share redemption liability was extinguished.
The movement in the shares redemption liability comprised: US$000 Balance as at 1 January 2007 9,062 Interest expense 974 Balance as at 31 December 2007 10,036 Interest expense 1,012 Repurchase of DCM shares 15,423 Foreign exchange loss 4,375 Balance as at 31 December 2008 Note 38: Related party disclosure During the periods presented the Group entered into arms length transactions with entities under common control of the majority owner of the Group, Kostyantin Zhevago and with other related parties.
Management considers that the Group has appropriate procedures in place to identify and properly disclose transactions with the related parties.
94 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The related party transactions undertaken by the Group during the periods presented are summarised below: Year ended 31.12.08 Year ended 31.12.07 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties Iron ore pellet sales Other sales 853 2,937 3,013 65 4,336 Total revenue 853 2,937 3,013 65 4,336 Purchase of materials 22,999 20,293 18,417 13,731 Purchase of services 477 426 2,460 767 General and administration expenses 2,642 128 361 19 Selling and distribution 3,482 11,332 1,801 1,554 1,797 Other expenses 43 247 202 76 Total expenses 26,161 3,482 32,426 23,241 1,554 16,390 Finance income 239 394 415 304 212 Finance costs 761 141 Net finance income costs 522 394 274 304 212 During 2008 the Group made sales to the entities under common control amounting to US$1,368,000 of which US$515,000 were for ballast material 2007: US$3,013,000.
Finance income and finance costs The Group has transactional banking arrangements with Finance & Credit Bank in Ukraine which is under common control of the major shareholder of Ferrexpo PLC.
Finance income and finance costs are disclosed in the table above.
Sale and purchases of property, plant and equipment and investments Year ended 31.12.08 Year ended 31.12.07 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties 1 Sale of investments 1,849 5,613 2 Purchase of investments 270 3 Sale of property, plant and equipment 690 4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 192 16 5,450 61 1 In May 2008 the Group disposed of 2.054% of its share in Vostock Ruda, an available-for-sale investment, to entities under common control for a consideration of $1,849,000 resulting in a gain on disposal of $1,571,000 2007: the Group sold a 6.2% interest in Vostock Ruda, for consideration of $5,613,000, resulting in a gain on disposal of $4,714,000.
2 During 2007 the Group acquired 9.91%, ex-rights, of the share capital in OJSC Stahanov, a quoted rail car manufacturing business located in the Luhansk region of Ukraine for consideration of $11,994,000 from an entity under common control.
Following completion of the capital reorganisation in May 2008, the holding was reduced to 3.3%.
On 15 July 2008 PGOK and Ferrotrans group subsidiaries subscribed for additional share capital for consideration of $244,000 and $25,000 respectively in OJSC Stahanov, as part of the rights issue of that company.
As at 31 December 2008 the market value of the shares purchased in 2008 was $231,000, the difference was recognised in income statement as an impairment loss.
3 During 2007 land and buildings not used by the Group were disposed to an entity under common control for $690,000 2008: nil.
4 During 2008 the Group purchased property, plant and equipment principally trucks and cranes from the entity under common control, Auto Kraz, for a consideration of $192,000 2007: $5,450,000 of which $4,965,000 was for the purchase of 110 railcars from OJSC Stahanov.
5 On 16 September 2008, Ferrexpo plc repurchased 19,398,814 of its own Ordinary Shares from Kostyantin Zhevago a related party at the market price of 1.673 per share for settlement on 19 September 2008.
The gross consideration paid amounted to $58,248,826.
95 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 38: Related party disclosure continued The outstanding investments balances with related parties for the periods presented are as follows: Year ended 31.12.08 Year ended 31.12.07 Entities Entities under Other under Other common Associated related common Associated related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties Investments available-for-sale 47,023 97 Loans to associates 9,000 5,000 Total non-current assets 9,000 47,023 5,000 97 Investments available-for-sale 880 2,839 Promissory notes issued 218 12 Trade and other receivables 1,890 8 793 7 581 Prepayments and other current assets 145 299 581 Short-term deposits with banks 5,000 Cash and cash equivalents 36,984 8,727 Total current assets 44,899 299 589 12,577 7 593 Trade and other payables 659 1,250 2,185 1,099 Accrued liabilities and deferred income Current liabilities 659 1,250 2,185 1,099 As of 31 December 2008 trade and other receivables included outstanding amounts relating to the disposal of shares in Vostock Ruda of US$1,212,000 2007: nil.
As of 31 December 2008 cash and cash equivalents with Finance & Credit Bank were US$36,984,000 2007: US$8,727,000.
96 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Note 39: Reconciliation of profit before income tax to net cash flow from operating activities Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Profit before income tax 375,581 160,760 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets 34,125 28,265 Interest expense 18,496 24,488 Interest income 2,467 3,242 Share of income of associates 1,003 687 Movement in allowance for doubtful receivables 19,095 336 Write-off reversal of payables 1,043 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,280 Assets received free of charge 325 Write-offs and impairment losses 27,325 1,568 Site restoration provision 269 1,269 Gains on disposal of investments available for sale 1,571 4,714 Employee benefits 7,715 3,915 IPO costs 4,120 34,004 Share based payments 1,495 Negative goodwill generated on rights issue 35,049 Operating foreign exchange gain 29,309 Non-operating foreign exchange loss 72,788 3,467 Operating cash flow before working capital changes 491,522 249,429 Changes in working capital: Increase decrease in trade accounts receivable and other receivables 36,167 13,951 Increase decrease in inventories 5,070 7,840 Increase decrease in trade and other accounts payable 8,094 6,534 Increase decrease in other taxes receivable 673 14,411 Cash generated from operating activities 457,706 247,663 Interest paid 15,443 24,525 Income tax paid 67,217 32,018 Post-employment benefits paid 4,103 2,274 Net cash flows from operating activities 370,943 188,846 Note 40: Net financial indebtedness Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.08 31.12.07 Cash and cash equivalents 30 87,822 86,966 Current borrowings 32 74,523 54,284 Non-current borrowings 32 231,373 146,008 Current commodity loans 33 1,446 1,664 Non-current commodity loans 33 570 2,569 Net financial indebtedness 220,090 117,559 Net financial indebtedness as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, interest bearing loans and borrowings and amounts payable for equipment.
Payables for equipment comprised balances due to foreign suppliers for mining equipment denominated in US dollars and euros which are interest-bearing.
97 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 41: Employee benefits expenses Employee benefits expenses for the year ended 31 December 2008 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Wages and salaries 65,738 65,885 Social security costs 20,598 17,369 Post-employment benefits 6,127 2,417 Other employee costs 17,722 5,175 Total 110,185 90,846 Average number of employees Year ended Year ended Number 31.12.08 31.12.07 Production 6,728 7,796 Marketing and distribution 159 185 Administration 1,002 2,131 Other 870 Total 8,759 10,112 Compensation for key management was as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Wages and salaries 6,803 15,589 Social security costs 1,015 2,236 Other employee costs 8,748 8,721 Total 16,566 26,546 The balances above include compensation for Executive Directors and other key management personnel.
Refer to the Remuneration Report for details of compensation relating to Non-executive Directors.
Note 42: Commitments and contingencies Commitments As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.08 31.12.07 Operating lease commitments 45 26,505 13,744 Capital commitments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 42,198 60,904 Guarantees provided 335,000 335,000 Legal In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
Management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of the Group.
Tax and other regulatory compliance Ukrainian legislation and regulations regarding taxation and custom regulations continue to evolve.
Legislation and regulations are not always clearly written and are subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national authorities, and other Governmental bodies.
Instances of inconsistent interpretations are not unusual.
The uncertainty of application and the evolution of Ukrainian tax laws, including those affecting cross border transactions, create a risk of additional tax payments having to be made by the Group, which could have a material effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
The Group does not believe that these risks are any more significant than those of similar enterprises in Ukraine.
98 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Note 43: Financial instruments Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk Liquidity risk Market risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Group operates a centralised financial risk management structure under the management of the Executive Committee, accountable to the Board.
The Executive Committee delegates certain responsibilities to the CFO.
The CFOs responsibilities include authority for approving all new physical, commercial or financial transactions that create a financial risk for the Group.
Additionally, the CFO controls the management of treasury risks within each of the business units in accordance with a Board-approved Treasury Policy.
Financial instrument risk exposure and management Natural hedges that can be identified and the effectiveness quantified are used in preference to financial risk management instruments.
Derivative transactions may be executed for risk mitigation purposes only speculation is not permitted under the approved Treasury Policy and are designed to have the effect of reducing risk on underlying market or credit exposures.
Appropriate operational controls ensure operational risks are not increased disproportionably to the reduction in market or credit risk.
The Group has not used any financial risk management instruments that are derivative in nature or other hedging instruments in this or prior periods.
Credit risk Trade and other receivables The Group through its trading operations enters into binding contracts which contain obligations that create exposure to credit, counterparty and country risks.
It is the primary objective of the Group to manage such risks to reduce uncertainty of collection from buyers.
A secondary objective is to minimise the cost of reducing risks within acceptable parameters.
Trade finance is used to balance risk and payment.
These risks include the creditworthiness of the buyer, and the political and economic stability of the buyers country.
Trade finance generally refers to the financing of individual transactions or a series of revolving transactions and are often self-liquidating whereby the lending bank stipulates that all sales proceeds to be collected are applied to settle the loan, the remainder returned to the Group.
Trade finance transactions are approved by the Group treasurer.
The primary objective is to ensure that the margins paid and conditions applicable should be the same or better than those which other organisations with similar credit worthiness would achieve, and compared with other alternative financing available to the Group.
Credit risk is the risk associated with the possibility that a buyer will default, by failing to make required payments in a timely manner, or to comply with other conditions of an obligation or agreement.
Where appropriate, the Group uses letters of credit to assist in mitigating such risks.
Counterparty risk crystallises when a party to an agreement defaults.
Where letters of credit are used to minimise this risk, the Group uses a confirming bank with a similar or higher credit rating to mitigate country and or credit risk of the issuing bank.
Country risk is the potential volatility of foreign assets, whether receivables or investments, that is due to political and or financial events in a given country.
During the year the Group reduced its exposure to Ukraine trade receivables risk by increasing the level of production exported.
99 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 43: Financial instruments continued Group treasury monitors the concentration of all outstanding risks associated with any entity, or country and reports to the CFO on a timely basis.
Investment securities The Group limits its cash exposure to credit, counterparty and country risk by only investing in liquid securities and with counterparties that are incorporated in an A or better S&P rated OECD country: and is rated from S&P or Moodys at a level to long-term A S&P or short-term A2 S&P or better.
Recognising that the principal activities of the Group predominantly reside in Ukraine, special consideration is given for investments with Ukrainian counterparties.
Exceptions may be made under the following conditions: The counterparty is resident in Ukraine, and The counterparty is included in the Top 15 financial institutions in Ukraine, and The counterparty either is: owned and controlled by the State with its obligations guaranteed by the State: or majority owned and controlled by an international financial institution capable of covering the counterparty exposure which in itself meets the criteria of an eligible counterparty: or a local financial institution that has achieved a minimum investment grade rating from Fitch, S&P or Moodys.
Cash and deposits held with the Groups transactional bank in Ukraine, a related party financial institution, and registered with the National Bank of Ukraine for receiving and disbursing payments under Group intercompany loans, is an approved Ukrainian counterparty.
The Group is therefore exposed to Ukraine country risk.
Guarantees The Groups policy is to provide financial guarantees only to wholly-owned subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2008 Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo UK Ltd were joint and severally liable under a US$335m loan agreement having an outstanding balance of US$280m 31 December 2007: US$200m.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Cash and term deposits 87,822 86,966 Trade receivables 58,157 43,575 Other financial assets 20,616 10,650 Total maximum exposure to credit risk 166,595 141,191 The total receivables balance relating to the Groups top three customers was US$29,740,000 2007: US$21,380,000 making up 54.3% of the total amounts receivable 2007: 49.1%.
Impairment losses The following table shows the Groups receivables at the reporting date that are exposed to credit risk and the ageing and impairment profile thereon: 2008 Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables Receivables past neither Less Gross due and past due nor than 45 to Over US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days 90 days 90 days Trade receivables 70,113 11,956 34,448 14,065 2,781 6,863 Other receivables 15,976 435 15,525 16 2007 Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables Receivables past neither Less Gross due and past due nor than 45 to Over US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days 90 days 90 days Trade receivables 43,976 401 33,694 8,453 675 753 100 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation by holding surplus cash or undrawn credit facilities.
The Group prepares detailed rolling cash flow forecasts, which assist it in monitoring cash flow requirements and optimising its cash return on investments.
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand and or lines of credit to meet expected operational expenses for a period of 30 days, including the servicing of financial obligations: this excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities by interest type: Year ended 31 December 2008 Less than Between Between US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Interest bearing Ukrainian banks fixed rate interest 738 23,557 1,102 25,397 Other banks floating rate interest 72,727 207,727 280,454 Commodity loans 1,446 570 2,016 Interest accrued 2,070 2,070 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 32,708 72 32,780 Promissory notes 797 797 Other financial liabilities 35,234 35,234 Total cash flow maturity 145,720 231,926 1,102 378,748 Year ended 31 December 2007 Less than Between Between US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Interest bearing Ukrainian banks fixed rate interest 738 738 1,840 3,316 Other banks floating rate interest 53,532 71,715 71,715 196,962 Commodity loans 1,664 2,569 4,233 Interest accrued 14 14 Non-interest bearing Trade and other payables 23,463 14 23,477 Promissory notes fixed rate interest 253 83 336 Share redemption liability 10,036 10,036 Other financial liabilities 7,229 7,229 Total cash flow maturity 96,929 75,119 73,555 245,603 Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities.
Operating currencies for the Group are primarily the Ukrainian hryvnia, but also US dollars, Swiss francs, euro and sterling.
The Groups major lines of borrowings and the majority of its sales are denominated in US dollars, with costs of local Ukrainian production mainly in hryvnia.
During the year the value of the hryvnia moved from being pegged to the US dollars to a managed float which has resulted in a hryvnia devaluation against the US dollar.
The devaluation of the Ukrainian hryvnia will reduce the operating costs of the production unit in dollar terms and the value of hryvnia payables recorded in the balance sheet at the year end in US dollars.
As the majority of sales and receivables are denominated in US dollars, a devaluation in the local currency will result in operating exchange gains recorded in the income statement.
With a devaluation of the local currency, US dollar denominated loans held by the Ukrainian subsidiary will result in non-operating exchange losses to the extent these are not matched by dollar denominated assets.
Fixed assets are similarly held in local currency amounts and a devaluation in the currency will result in reduced net asset vales which are recorded in reserves.
101 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 43: Financial instruments continued The National Bank of Ukraine NBU manages and determines the official exchange rates.
An inter-bank market for exchange of currencies exists in Ukraine and is monitored by the NBU.
The Group, through its financial institutions, exchanges currencies at bank offered market rates.
Trade receivables are predominately in US dollars which are not hedged.
Trade payables denominated in a US dollars are also not hedged on the market, but are matched against US dollar currency receipts this includes the interest expense which is principally payable in US dollars.
Trade receivables and trade payables in other currencies are not hedged as a forward market for the currency is generally not available.
Other Group monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are considered immaterial as the exposure to currency risk mainly relates to corporate costs within Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: Year ended 31 December 2008 Ukraine Swiss Other US$000 hryvnia US dollar Euro franc currencies Total Financial assets 264 56,050 921 1,288 58,523 Financial liabilities Ukrainian banks 25,396 25,396 Interest accrued 205 1 206 Borrowings 25,601 1 25,602 Commodity loans 2,017 2,017 Trade and other payables 2,957 3,754 4,575 1,933 13,219 Other financial liabilities 14,334 1,506 15,840 Total financial liabilities 28,558 5,772 18,909 3,439 56,678 Net financial assets liabilities 264 27,492 5,772 17,988 2,151 1,845 Year ended 31 December 2007 Ukraine Swiss Other US$000 hryvnia US dollar Euro franc currencies Total Financial assets 770 308 556 1,634 Financial liabilities Ukrainian banks 3,316 3,316 Interest accrued 14 14 Borrowings 3,330 3,330 Commodity loans 690 3,543 4,233 Trade and other payables 886 3,383 589 846 5,704 Share redemption liability 10,036 10,036 Other financial liabilities 2,008 2,008 Total financial liabilities 14,942 6,926 2,597 846 25,311 Net financial assets liabilities 14,172 6,926 2,289 290 23,677 Interest rate risk The Group predominantly borrows funds that are at floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate movements.
The interest rate exposure to US dollars remained relatively low during the period, and no interest rate swaps have been entered into in this or prior periods.
102 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Profile At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: Year ended 31 December 2008 Other Floating Fixed non-interest US$000 interest interest Equity bearing Total Financial assets Cash and term deposits 30,157 54,769 2,896 87,822 Available-for-sale investments 5,085 5,085 Trade receivables 58,157 58,157 Other financial assets 20,616 20,616 Total financial assets 30,157 54,769 86,754 171,680 Weighted av.
interest rate % 0.3 2.7 Financial liabilities Borrowings 305,895 1 305,896 Trade and other financial liabilities 2,017 68,810 70,827 Total financial liability exposure 305,895 2,018 68,810 376,723 Weighted av.
interest rate % 5.0 Year ended 31 December 2007 Other Floating Fixed non-interest US$000 interest interest Equity bearing Total Financial assets Cash and term deposits 78,247 8,702 17 86,966 Available-for-sale investments 102 49,973 50,075 Trade receivables 43,575 43,575 Other financial assets 5,304 5,346 10,650 Total financial assets 83,653 8,702 49,973 48,938 191,266 Weighted av.
interest rate % 5.0 1.5 Financial liabilities Borrowings 196,045 4,247 336 200,628 Trade and other financial liabilities 4,233 40,742 44,975 Total financial liability exposure 200,278 4,247 41,078 245,603 Weighted av.
interest rate % 7.6 8.2 The interest rate maturity profile for financial liabilities is shown under the liquidity risk section.
The interest rate maturity profile for financial assets is all current for both years, except for US$3m of the floating rate loan to associate which matures between two to five years as at 31 December 2008 2007: US$4m.
Commodity risk The Group is exposed to longer-term movements in the price of iron ore, but does not have a commodity risk exposure to its financial assets and liabilities once the sale has been made.
Trade receivables are based on a fixed contract price, and so do not fluctuate with iron ore market prices.
Similarly finished goods are held at cost, with revaluation to a spot price not applicable for iron ore pellets, there being no tradable exchange in the product to ascertain its market value.
103 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 43: Financial instruments continued Sensitivity analysis A 20% strengthening of the US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased decreased equity and profit and loss by the amounts shown below.
This assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Year ended 31.12.08 Year ended 31.12.07 Income Income US$000 statement Equity statement Equity UAH 5,446 2,835 EUR 1,154 1,385 CHF 3,598 458 10,198 992 A 20% weakening of the US dollar against the above currencies would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss, and the Group does not hold any derivatives e. g. interest rate swaps.
Therefore a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity for fixed and variable rate instruments A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Net finance charge 1,449 3,182 A decrease in of 100 bp would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Set out below is the comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments, that are carried in the consolidated balance sheet: Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 Financial assets Available-for-sale investments 5,085 50,075 5,085 50,075 Cash and cash equivalents 87,822 86,966 87,822 86,966 Financial liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 305,896 200,628 274,668 200,628 The fair values of interest bearing loans and borrowings are based on the cash flows discounted using market interest rates.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and payables are approximately equal to their carrying amounts due to their short maturity.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity, excluding minority interests, and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
Please refer to the Statement of Changes in Equity for details of the capital position of the Group.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
Access to securing borrowings in the context of the events affecting the global financial credit markets during the year has affected the elasticity at which the Board can maintain this balance.
The Board continues to support maintaining a sound capital base balanced against these market constraints.
The Board maintains a dividend policy consistent with the Groups profile, reflecting the investment activities the Group is making on major projects for future production growth and the cash generated by existing operations, whilst maintaining a prudent level of dividend cover.
104 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 During the year Ferrexpo plc undertook an on-market share buy-back of its shares, and off-market buy-back of shares held by the Groups principal shareholder.
Further details are provided in notes 31 and 38.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements other than a bank covenant requirement to maintain consolidated equity in respect of the Ferrexpo AG group of $300m including minority interests.
Compliance is ensured by balancing dividend payments against the earnings of the Ferrexpo AG group.
Note 44: Share-based payments Listing bonus share award Share awards were granted in 2007 to certain senior management following the successful listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007.
A proportion of the award vests immediately with the remainder vesting over a period of up to four years, provided that the individual is still in the employment of the Group on the date of vesting.
It has been assumed that all awards will vest.
The fair value of the awards was determined to be the closing share price on the date of award.
The weighted average fair value WAFV of awards granted was determined at the date of grant to be $3.33 per share.
The unvested portion of the award does not accrue dividends.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The expense recognised under the scheme during the year to 31 December 2008 is US$4,257,000 2007: US$9,124,000, all of which arose from equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
000 Beginning of the year 3.63 2,403 Award granted during the year 3.33 4,166 Vested during the year 3.63 2.92 1,948 1,763 Forfeited during the year 3.63 13 Outstanding at 31 December 3.63 3.63 442 2,403 Long term incentive plans LTIPs Share awards were granted on 14 May 2008.
695,000 shares were awarded under the LTIP, which runs for three years.
415,000 shares were awarded under the Interim LTIP referred to as Transitional awards in the Remuneration Report, which runs for two years.
The LTIP and Interim LTIP are subject to a performance condition based on the Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to a comparator group, measured over the vesting period, as described in the Remuneration Report.
The expense recognised during 2008 was US$809,000 in respect of the LTIP 2007: nil and $686,000 in respect of the interim LTIP 2007: nil.
The fair value of these awards was assessed at this grant date using a simulation or Monte Carlo model consistent with the mathematics underlying the standard Black-Scholes options pricing model, extended to allow for the performance conditions.
Each simulation of the model projects the Companys and comparators share prices with reinvested dividends over the vesting period, allowing for the volatilities and correlations between the shares as estimated from historical data.
From this projection the proportion of awards vesting, and the value to employees, is calculated.
100,000 simulations were run to calculate the fair values.
The fair value is set as the average value over all the simulations.
000 LTIP Beginning of the year Award granted during the year 5.52 695 Vested during the year Outstanding at 31 December 5.52 695 Interim LTIP Beginning of the year Award granted during the year 5.22 415 Vested during the year Outstanding at 31 December 5.22 415 105 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 45: Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Less than one year 1,137 1,035 Between one and five years 3,473 3,617 More than five years 21,895 9,092 26,505 13,744 During the year ended 31 December 2008 US$986,000 was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2007: $610,000.
The Group leases land and buildings under operating leases.
The leases on land typically run for 49 years, with a lease period of 5 to 10 years on buildings.
Note 46: Operating profit by function Before Before adjusting Adjusted Year ended adjusting Adjusted Year ended US$000 Notes items items 31.12.08 items items 31.12.07 Revenue 6 1,116,854 1,116,854 698,216 698,216 Cost of sales 7 434,238 434,238 335,936 335,936 Gross profit 682,616 682,616 362,280 362,280 Selling and distribution expenses 8 152,528 152,528 100,614 100,614 General and administrative expenses 9 67,185 67,185 44,308 44,308 Other income 10 6,387 6,387 4,844 4,844 Other expenses 11 38,040 3,603 34,437 5,096 35,572 40,668 Operating foreign exchange gain 12 29,309 29,309 Operating profit 460,559 3,603 464,162 217,106 35,572 181,534 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investment 1,571 1,571 4,714 4,714 Share of gains of associates 14 1,003 1,003 687 687 Total profit from operations and associates 461,562 5,174 466,736 217,793 30,858 186,935 Summary of adjusted items Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.08 31.12.07 Operating adjusting items Write-offs and impairment losses 13 27,326 1,568 Negative goodwill 15 35,049 Initial public offering costs 16 4,120 34,004 3,603 35,572 Non-operating adjusting items Gain on disposal of available-for-sale investment 38 1,571 4,714 1,571 4,714 Note 47: Subsequent events No material adjusting or non-adjusting events have occurred subsequent to the year end other than the proposed dividend disclosed in note 19.
106 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Note 48: Financial statements of the parent company a Balance sheet of the company, Ferrexpo plc As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.08 31.12.07 Assets Fixed asset investments 48c 134,732 134,732 Total non-current assets 134,732 134,732 Amounts due from subsidiaries 213,025 131,817 Debtors 48d 1,725 6,743 Prepayments and other current assets 724 80 Other taxes recoverable and prepaid 12 8 Marketable securities 102 Cash and cash equivalents 295 233 Total current assets 215,781 138,983 Total assets 350,513 273,715 Equity and liabilities Share capital 48b 121,628 121,628 Share premium 48b 185,112 188,566 Treasury share reserve 48b 77,260 Employee benefit trust reserve 48b 15,443 20,092 Retained earnings losses 48b 134,508 17,401 Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent 48b 348,545 272,701 Trade and other payables 109 141 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 1,494 749 Income taxes payable 124 Other taxes payable 365 Total liabilities 1,968 1,014 Total equity and liabilities 350,513 273,715 All liabilities held by the Company are current in nature.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 23 March 2009.
Kostyantin Zhevago Christopher Mawe Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 107 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information continued Note 48: Financial statements of the parent company continued b Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds Employee Issued Share Treasury benefit Retained U$ 000 capital Premium share reserve trust reserve earnings Total equity At 1 January 2007 Deferred tax on transaction costs 5,179 5,179 Net income and expense for the period recognised directly in equity 5,179 5,179 Profit for the period 17,401 17,401 Total income and expense for the year 5,179 17,401 12,222 Items recognised directly in equity: Share issue in parent company 121,628 215,275 336,903 Transaction costs associated with issue of shares 31,888 31,888 1 Treasury shares issued to employee benefit trust 29,216 29,216 Employee benefit trust award 9,124 9,124 At 31 December 2007 121,628 188,566 20,092 17,401 272,701 Deferred tax on transaction costs 1,725 1,725 Write off of deferred tax on IPO costs 5,179 5,179 Deferred tax on employee benefits 317 317 Net income and expense for the period recognised directly in equity 3,454 317 3,771 Profit for the period 190,863 190,863 Total income and expense for the year 3,454 190,863 187,092 Items recognised directly in equity: Share buyback in parent company 77,260 77,260 Equity dividends paid to shareholders 38,954 38,954 Share-based payments 4,966 4,966 At 31 December 2008 121,628 185,112 77,260 15,443 134,508 348,545 1 Refer to note 31 for details of this transaction.
The audit fee in respect of the parent company was US$10,000 2007: US$7,000.
c Fixed asset investments Investment in subsidiary US$000 equity At 1 January 2007 Additions 134,732 At 31 December 2007 and 2008 134,732 The balance above relates to the Companys investment in Ferrexpo AG which is a 100% owned subsidiary based on Switzerland.
d Debtors Debtors at 31 December 2008 relate to the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.08 31.12.07 Deferred income tax assets: Tax loss recognised 1,725 1,564 IPO costs 5,179 1,725 6,743 e Subsequent events No material adjusting or non-adjusting events have occurred subsequent to the year end.
108 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
