Fidessa group plc 70 Appendix: Principal changes to the Companys Articles of Association 1.
Articles that replicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles that replicate provisions contained in the 2006 Act are in general removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not be replicated in a companys constitution.
The main changes to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Authorised share capital 1 Under the Current Articles the authorised share capital of the Company is a nominal amount of 4,360,000.
This amount has been increased by 27 3 per cent to 6,000,000 under the New Articles to allow the Company to take advantage of recent guidance published by the Association of British Insurers recommending that the overall allotment headroom that shareholders should normally be invited to approve be increased from one-third to two-thirds of an issuers issued share capital.
General meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are removed in the New Articles because the relevant matters are provided for in the 2006 Act.
In particular, the period of notice required to convene a general meeting other than an annual general meeting to consider a special resolution is being reduced from 21 clear days notice to 14 clear days notice see also in this regard note 10 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which describes the impact of the implementation of certain provisions of Directive 2007 36 EC the Shareholder Rights Directive in the United Kingdom.
Form of resolution The Current Articles provide for both special and extraordinary resolutions.
References to extraordinary resolutions are not included in the New Articles as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the 2006 Act.
Votes of members and proxies Pursuant to the 2006 Act, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands as well as on a poll, and members may appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at meetings.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
The New Articles reflect these new proxy rights.
Age of directors on appointment The Current Articles contain a provision requiring a directors age to be disclosed if he has attained the age of 70 years or more in the notice convening a meeting at which the director is proposed to be elected or re-elected.
Such provision could fall foul of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been removed from the New Articles.
Directors conflicts of interest The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2006 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director of the Company becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest in order to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the New Articles contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
Notice of board meetings Under the Current Articles the directors need only be sent notice of directors meetings if they are in the United Kingdom.
This provision has been removed from the New Articles, as modern communications mean that there may be no particular obstacle to giving notice to a director who is abroad.
Distribution of assets otherwise than in cash The Current Articles contain provisions dealing with the distribution of assets in kind in the event of the Company going into liquidation.
These provisions have been removed in the New Articles on the grounds that a provision about the powers of liquidators is a matter for insolvency law rather than the articles and that the Insolvency Act 1986 confers powers on the liquidator which would enable it to do what is envisaged by the Current Articles.
Treasury shares From 1 December 2003, listed companies that buy back their shares have not been required by law to cancel them.
Such shares can be held by a company as treasury shares and later sold for cash, transferred for the purposes of an employee share scheme or cancelled.
The New Articles fully reflect the possible existence of treasury shares.
Uncertificated shares The New Articles have been amended to fully reflect that ownership of shares can be evidenced without share certificates and that such shares can be transferred through an electronic settlement system.
Borrowing powers Under the Current Articles the borrowings of the Company may not exceed, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution, an amount equal to the greater of 10 million and three times the adjusted capital reserves.
Under the New Articles, this amount has been amended to the greater of 50 million and twice the adjusted capital reserves.
Remuneration of directors Under the Current Articles the aggregate fees payable to non-executive directors may not exceed 150,000 per annum unless approved by ordinary resolution.
Under the New Articles this amount has been increased to 500,000 and it has been made clearer that this limit only applies to non-executive directors.
