Annual Report and Accounts 2008 67 Notice of Annual General Meeting Fidessa group plc This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant, or other professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the thirteenth Annual General Meeting of Fidessa group plc the Company will be held at One Old Jewry, London EC2R 8DN on 28th April 2009 at 9.30 a. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2008 together with the reports of the Directors and auditors thereon.
To declare a final dividend of 17p per ordinary share of the Company.
To consider, and if thought fit, to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2008.
To re-elect Chris Aspinwall, who retires by rotation, as a Director of the Company.
To elect Elizabeth Lake, who has been appointed by the Directors since the last annual general meeting, as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys auditors and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: a to authorise the Directors generally and unconditionally pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended the 1985 Act to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,160,591.22 provided that this authority unless renewed shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and fifteen months from the date of the passing of this resolution, such authority being in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 2 of the 1985 Act of the Company but so as to enable the Company before such date to make offers or agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired: and further b to authorise the Directors generally and unconditionally to exercise all powers of the company to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary shares held by them up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,160,591.22 provided that this authority unless renewed shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and fifteen months from the date of the passing of this resolution, but so as to enable the Company before such date to make offers or agreements which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: to empower the Directors in accordance with Section 95 of the 1985 Act, until the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and fifteen months from the date of the passing of this resolution, to make allotments of equity securities as construed in accordance with section 94 of the 1985 Act for cash pursuant to the authority that was conferred on the Directors by Resolution 7 above as if section 89 1 of the 1985 Act did not apply to any such allotment, such power being limited to the allotment of equity securities: a in connection with an issue or offer by way of rights in favour of holders of equity securities and of any other person entitled to participate in such issue or offering where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders and persons are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of equity securities held or deemed to be held by them on the record date of such allotment or are otherwise in accordance with their respective entitlements, subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem fit to deal with fractional entitlements or problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory authority or any stock exchange: and b otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 175,847.15: save that the Company may, before expiry of that authority, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
Fidessa group plc 68 Notice of Annual General Meeting Fidessa group plc continued 9.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: that the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of section 166 of the 1985 Act to make one or more market purchases as defined in section 163 of the said 1985 Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 3,516,943 representing approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the date of the Notice of this Meeting : b the minimum price which may be paid for an or dinary share is 10p per share excluding expenses being the nominal amount thereof: c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotation of an ordinary share of the Company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the purchase is made: d the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and the date which is fifteen months after the date on which this resolution is passed: and e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: to adopt and hereby authorise the document now before this meeting, and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification, as the new Articles of Association of the Company, in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: notwithstanding implementation of Directive 2007 36 EC the Shareholder Rights Directive in the United Kingdom, the Company, be authorised until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, to call general meetings by giving not less than 14 days notice calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
By order of the Board Registered Office Registered in England and Wales Dukes Court Number 03234176 S Freeman Duke Street Secretary Woking, Surrey 13th February 2009 GU21 5BH Notes 1.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered in the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting is 6.00 p. m. on 26th April 2009.
If the meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is 6.00 p. m. on the day, two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the relevant time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of such members rights to attend, speak and vote on behalf of the member at the Annual General Meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be valid a proxy form must be lodged with the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
Members may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
Members may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Annual General Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Annual General Meeting so that: i if a corporate member has appointed the Chairman as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all the other corporate representatives for that member at the Annual General Meeting, then, on a poll, those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate member attends the Annual General Meeting but the corporate member has not appointed the Chairman as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate members are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter to appoint the Chairman as a corporate representative as described in i above.
