Copies of the contracts of service between the Dir ectors and the Company, the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Directors indemnities are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during each business day and will be available for inspection at 1 Old Jewry, London for 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
The register of interests of Directors and their families in the shares of the Company will be available for inspection at the commencement of, and during, the Annual General Meeting.
Section 80 Companies Act 1985: this Ordinary Resolution, if approved, will authorise the Directors to a allot shares with an aggregate nominal amount of up to 1,160,591.22 representing 33% of the issued share capital at 13th February 2009 : and b allot further shares, also with an aggregate nominal amount of up to 1,160,591.22 representing 33% of the issued share capital at 13th February 2009, in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary shareholders: for a period of fifteen months or, if earlier, until the end of the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
This authority succeeds that granted in 2008.
The Directors have no current intention to allot shares except in connection with employee share incentive schemes.
In order to enable the Directors to exercise this authority, the authorised 1 share capital of the Company shall be increased by 27 3 per cent.
to 6,000,000, further details are provided at note 2 of the appendix.
Section 89 1 Companies Act 1985: this Special Resolution will, if appr oved, partially disapply the statutory pre-emption rights for a period of fifteen months or, if earlier, until the end of the 2010 Annual General Meeting, in order to provide the Directors with a limited power to issue equity securities for cash otherwise than pro rata to ordinary shareholders, which following the introduction of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 now extends to the sale of shares from treasury.
The existing power to this effect will expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
The resolution conforms with the guidelines of the Investment Committee of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds and, if approved, will maintain the flexibility for the Company to allot relevant securities for cash either by way of a rights issue or up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 175,847.15, representing 5% of the issued share capital at the date of the Notice of this Meeting.
The existing power to this ef fect will expire at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
The ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this Special Resolution will be either cancelled on buy-back or held in treasury.
No more than 10% of the issued share capital may be held in treasury.
The Directors only intend to exercise this power if they believe that it would increase earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally, or in the case of creation of treasury shares, that to do so would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
The 2006 Act is r eplacing the 1985 Act in stages, and is expected to be fully in force by 1 October 2009.
The Company wishes to adopt new articles of association the New Articles that will reflect the changes brought about by the 2006 Act to date, as well as some minor, technical or clarifying changes.
A copy of the current articles of association the Current Articles, and a copy marked to show the differences between them and the New Articles will be available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office, at the offices of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP at City Place House, 55 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5EH and at the Annual General Meeting itself until the close of the meeting.
A summary of the principal changes is set out in the Appendix to this Notice.
The Department for Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform published draft regulations on 24th October 2008 outlining its approach to implementing Directive 2007 36 EC the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The draft law is currently the subject of a consultation.
Subject to the outcome of this consultation, the draft regulations will take effect from 3rd August 2009.
The 2006 Act allows a minimum of 14 clear days notice for general meetings other than Annual General Meetings.
Under the current draft regulations this will be increased to 21 clear days unless a members resolution approving shorter notice has been passed at the immediately preceding Annual General Meeting, and the Company offers electronic voting to all members.
Should the draft regulations come into force in their current state, Resolution 11 is intended to enable the Company to continue to call general meetings on 14 clear days notice notwithstanding implementation of Directive 2007 36 EC the Shareholder Rights Directive in the United Kingdom.
