Annual Report and Accounts 2008 71 Form of proxy Fidessa group plc I We the undersigned, being a member members of Fidessa group plc hereinafter called the Company, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or as my our proxy to attend, vote and speak on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held on 28th April 2009 at 9.30 a. m. and at any adjournment thereof.
I We direct my our proxy to vote on the resolutions as set out in the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting as follows:- Resolutions For Against Abstain 1 Receive the Directors Report and Financial Statements 2 Declare a final dividend of 17.0 pence per ordinary share 3 Approve the Directors Remuneration Report 4 Re-elect Mr C Aspinwall as a Director 5 Re-elect Ms E Lake as a Director 6 Re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors 7 Authorise the Directors to allot shares 8 Disapply the statutory pre-emption rights 9 Approve the purchase and cancellation of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital 10 To adopt the new Articles of Association of the Company 11 To empower the Company to call general meetings on 14 clear days notice Signed this.............................................. day of.................................. 2009 Members name................................. in block letters Members signature...................................
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
For the appointment of more than one proxy please refer to note 3 below.
Notes on completing the Form of Proxy 1.
Please complete this form legibly in block capitals.
To appoint a person s other than the Chairman as your proxy, insert the name of the proxy or proxies desired and delete the words the Chairman of the Meeting.
As a member of the Company you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote on your behalf at the Annual General Meeting.
You may appoint more than one proxy by contacting the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
Please indicate how you want your proxy to vote by marking the appropriate box opposite each resolution.
If none of the boxes are marked, your proxy may vote or abstain as he she thinks fit.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
If you mark the Abstain box for a particular item, you are abstaining from voting on that resolution.
An abstention is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the votes For or Against.
This form of proxy must be signed by the appointer or his her attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation it must be executed under its common seal or, be signed by an officer or attorney duly authorised by the corporation.
In the case of joint holders only one needs to sign the form.
The vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
Seniority will be determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders stand in the register of members.
To be valid a proxy form and the power or other authority under which it has been executed or a copy of such power or authority certified notarially must be lodged with the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZR by 6.00 p. m. on 26th April 2009.
Fidessa group plc 72 Third fold tuck in RESPOnSE LICEnCE no.
SEA10850 EqUInITI ASPECT HOUSE SPEnCER ROAD LAnCInG Bn99 6ZR Second fold First fold First fold
