Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General Information and Accounting Policies Findel plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 8.
The nature of the groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5, and in the Chairmans Statement and Finance Directors Review on pages 2 to 7.
These financial statements are presented in sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, there are a number of Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective which have not been applied in these financial statements, the most significant of which are as follows: Amendments to IAS 1 presentation of financial statements IAS 23 revised borrowing costs IFRS 8 operating segments IFRIC 12 service concession arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a dened benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction The directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the group.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below and have been applied consistently in the current and prior year other than for the adoption of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures.
IFRS 7 is a disclosure standard and consequently has not impacted the reported results.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the group no longer has control.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The financial statements of all subsidiaries are prepared to the same reporting date as the parent company.
Associates Associates are entities over which the group has significant inuence but not control.
significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the Investee but is not control or joint control over these policies.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The groups share of net assets of its associates, loans, and non-equity investments made to associates is included in the group balance sheet.
The groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity is recognised in the groups equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment annually by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying value.
Segment reporting A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing products or services within a particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of segments operating in other economic environments.
34 1 General Information and Accounting Policies continued During the period covered by this report, the group was organised into three core divisions which were the primary business segments: Home Shopping: Educational Supplies: and Healthcare.
The secondary reporting segments are the main geographic areas in which the group operates.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, discounts and returns.
Revenue is recognised as follows: Sales of goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer upon delivery and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
A provision for estimated returns is made, representing the profit on goods sold during the year which will be returned and refunded after the year end.
Revenue is reduced by the value of sales returns provided for during the year.
Interest income Interest income on customer credit accounts is recognised on a time-proportion basis, using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash ow discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Rendering of services Revenue is recognised in respect of non-interest related financial income, delivery charges and parcel insurance.
In addition, various services are provided under the groups healthcare contracts.
Income is recognised when the relevant service has been provided to the customer.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentational currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the companys and groups functional and presentational currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on translations that are subject to effective cash ow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary items are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in either equity or the income statement as appropriate.
Group companies The results and financial position of overseas group entities are translated into sterling as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the period: All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings, are taken to equity.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and are translated at the closing rate.
co. uk 35 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General Information and Accounting Policies continued Share-based payments The group operates a number of equity-settled, share based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received under such schemes is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
Fair value is determined by use of the Black Scholes Option Pricing Model.
The amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of share incentives, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the group revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity, over the remaining vesting period.
Non-recurring costs The restructuring of the groups existing operations and the integration of acquisitions gives rise to significant incremental non-recurring costs.
The group views these costs as costs associated with investment in the future performance of the business and not part of the groups underlying trading performance.
These costs have a material impact on the absolute amount of and trend in the group operating profit and operating margins.
Therefore such non-recurring costs are shown as exceptional items, a separate line item within operating profit on the face of the income statement.
Dividend distribution Dividend distributions to Findel plc shareholders are recognised in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value: Depreciation is charged on a straight line basis as follows: Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: Leasehold premises with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: Plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated over 3 to 20 years according to the estimated life of the asset: Equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the period of the lease: Land is not depreciated.
Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of identiable net assets of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the group.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold, allocated where necessary on a pro rata basis.
If the groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The interest of minority shareholders in the acquiree is initially measured at the minoritys proportion of the net fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill, if those assets are separable and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets acquired separately from the acquisition of a business are capitalised at cost.
The cost of intangible assets with nite useful economic lives is amortised over that period.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
36 1 General Information and Accounting Policies continued Brand names Legally protected or otherwise separable trade names acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition.
Brand names are assumed to have an indefinite life and are not amortised, but are subject to annual impairment tests.
Customer relationships Contractual and non-contractual customer relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over a period between 2 and 20 years, representing the directors best estimate of their useful economic lives.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets Financial assets are either: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL or loans and receivables.
The classication depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial asset, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for debt instruments.
Financial assets at FVTPL Financial assets are classied as at FVTPL where the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL A financial asset is classied as held for trading if: it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future: or it is a part of an identied portfolio of financial instruments that the group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the group is provided internally on that basis.
Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in note 39.
Loans and receivables Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classied as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash ows of the investment have been impacted.
co. uk 37 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General Information and Accounting Policies continued Objective evidence of impairment could include: significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation.
For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the groups past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Derecognition of financial assets The group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash ows from the asset expire: or it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classied as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities comprising derivative financial instruments are classied as at FVTPL where the financial liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL.
A financial liability is classied as held for trading if: it has been incurred principally for the purpose of disposal in the near future: or it is a part of an identied portfolio of financial instruments that the group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking: or it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument.
38 1 General Information and Accounting Policies continued A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: such designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise: or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the groups documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the group is provided internally on that basis.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments The group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and foreign currency options.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 26 to the financial statements.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
Taxation The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred taxation is calculated using tax rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred taxation asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.
co. uk 39 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General Information and Accounting Policies continued Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long-term payables.
The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under the finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the anticipated useful life of the asset and its lease term.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the periods benefiting from the incentives.
Retirement benefit costs The group has both dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays xed contributions into an independently administered fund.
The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The cost of providing these benets, recognised in the income statement, comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
For dened benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benets is determined using the Projected Unit Credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses that exceed 10% of the greater of the present value of the groups dened benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets are amortised over the expected average remaining lives of the participating employees.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benets are already vested and otherwise are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
Current and past service costs and settlement gains are recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Interest is included within finance costs.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of dened benefit pension plans is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
