Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fty-third annual general meeting of the company will be held at The Craiglands Hotel, Cowpasture Road, Ilkley, West Yorkshire, LS29 8RQ on Thursday 3 July 2008 at 2.00 p. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the statement of accounts of the company for the year ended 31 March 2008 together with the directors and auditors reports thereon.
To receive and adopt the board report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To approve a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008.
To re-elect Dr I J Bolton as a director.
To re-elect Mr G P Craig as a director.
To re-elect Mr D A Johnson as a director.
To elect Mr C D Hinton as a director.
To elect Mr S S McKay as a director.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the company for the period to the conclusion of the next annual general meeting and to authorise the directors to x their remuneration.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as an ordinary resolution: That pursuant to S. 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the company to allot Relevant Securities within the meaning of S. 80 of the said Act in respect of and up to an aggregate nominal amount of 493,497 representing 11.59% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 23 May 2008 until the earlier of the date and time of the next annual general meeting or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution: and so that the company may before that date and time make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after such time and the directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
This resolution asks shareholders to renew the directors general authority to allot unissued shares, should it be desirable to do so.
In accordance with relevant guidelines this authority is to be limited to the maximum nominal amount of 493,497 representing the companys authorised but unissued share capital as at 23 May 2008.
The company holds no treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act as at 23 May 2008.
The directors have no present plans to issue shares using this authority.
Subject to resolution 10 being passed, to consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as a special resolution: That, pursuant to S. 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the directors be and are hereby authorised: i subject to the passing of the previous resolution, to allot Equity Securities within the meaning of S. 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution: and ii to sell Equity Securities within the meaning of S. 94 of the said Act for cash which before the sale were held by the company as treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act as if sub-section 1 of S. 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment PROVIDED that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment or sale of Equity Securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the Equity Securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange, and or b to the allotment or sale otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of Equity Securities in respect of and up to an aggregate nominal amount of 212,825 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 23 May 2008 www.
co. uk 89 Notice of Annual General Meeting and shall expire on the earlier of the date and time of the next annual general meeting or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution: save that the company may before that date and time make an offer or agreement which would or might require Equity Securities to be allotted or sold after such time and in such event the directors may allot or sell Equity Securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
If the directors wish to allot unissued shares or sell shares from treasury for cash, the Companies Act 1985 requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is known as shareholders pre-emption rights.
There may be occasions however when, in order to act in the best interest of the company, the directors need the exibility to finance business opportunities as they arise.
Therefore this resolution asks shareholders to renew the directors authority to issue or sell from treasury a limited number of shares for cash, up to a nominal amount of 212,825 equivalent to 5% of the companys issued share capital at 23 May 2008, or pursuant to a rights issue, without the shares first being offered to shareholders.
Resolution 11 will be proposed as a special resolution.
The authority contained in Resolution 11, will expire on the earlier date of the next annual general meeting or 15 months after passing of such resolution.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as a special resolution: That, in accordance with Regulation 52 of the Articles of Association, a general authority is hereby given for the purposes of S. 166 of the Companies Act 1985 for one or more market purchases as dened in S. 163 of the said Act by the company of any of its own shares subject to the following restrictions but otherwise unconditionally: 1.
The maximum aggregate number of shares to be so acquired shall not exceed 8,513,005 ordinary shares of 5p each with a nominal value of 425,650 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 23 May 2008.
Shares may only be purchased at a price per share exclusive of expenses no higher than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the ordinary shares in the capital of the company, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial list, for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase but the minimum price that may be paid for such shares shall be the nominal value of 5p per share exclusive of expenses.
Unless previously renewed, varied, or revoked, this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company, but the company may before such expiry make contracts for such purposes which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
Under the terms of the Companies Act 1985 and its Articles of Association, the company has power to purchase its own shares provided that this power has first been sanctioned by shareholders.
The directors consider that in certain circumstances it may be beneficial for the company to purchase its own shares, for example, to return surplus cash to shareholders and to enhance earnings per share and or net assets per share.
This resolution asks shareholders to authorise the company to make purchases up to 8,513,005 ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 23 May 2008 % quotations of the ordinary shares in the capital of the company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the 5 business days prior to the purchase.
The total number of shares that may be issued on the exercise of outstanding options as at 23 May 2008 was 414,530 which represents approximately 0.48% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the company were to purchase shares up to the maximum permitted by this resolution, the proportion of shares subject to outstanding options would represent approximately 0.54% of the resultant issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
The purchase price for the company to purchase its own shares may only be satisfied out of distributable reserves, or the proceeds of a new issue of shares made for the purpose.
Purchases will be made on the London Stock Exchange, and daily notication of any purchases will be made to a Regulatory Information Service.
Full details of purchases made during the year will also appear in the companys annual report published in 2009.
The fact that the directors are seeking this authority should not be taken as an indication that the company will purchase its own shares at any particular price or indeed at all and the directors would only consider making purchases if they believed that such purchases would be in the best interests of the shareholders generally, having regard to the effect on earnings per share.
The directors have no immediate intention to exercise the proposed authority to purchase shares.
The Companies Act 1985 permits companies to hold any shares acquired by way of market purchases in treasury rather than having to cancel them.
The company would consider holding any of its own shares purchased under the authority granted by 90 Resolution 12 as treasury shares within the meaning of S. 162A of the said Act.
This would give the company the ability to re-issue treasury shares as and when required quickly and cost effectively and would provide the company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares while held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to those shares.
Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution.
The authority contained in Resolution 12 will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of such resolution.
To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following as a special resolution: That, the articles of association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identication be adopted as the articles of association of the company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles of association.
It is proposed in this resolution to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the companys current articles of association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted below.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as detailed in the following notes.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the notication of a refusal to register a share transfer, the form of resolutions and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general meetings.
Variation of class rights The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specic quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the Companies Act 2006.
The relevant provisions have therefore been amended in the New Articles.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular a general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Shareholder meetings formerly called extraordinary general meetings will now be called general meetings.
Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may be appointed.
The New Articles reect all of these new provisions.
Conicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conicts and potential conicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conict or potential conict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
co. uk 91 Notice of Annual General Meeting It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain provisions relating to condential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conict of interest or potential conict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conict has previously been authorised by the directors.
Electronic and web communications Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles continue to allow communications to members in electronic form and to continue to website communications.
However, the New Articles use revised denitions, such as communication in or by Electronic Copy, Electronic Means and Electronic Form as these are all terms that are dened in the Companies Act 2006.
Before the company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the company to agree that the company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a director against liability incurred in connection with the companys activities as trustee of the scheme.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
By order of the board IJBolton Secretary 23 May 2008 92 Notes a Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the company.
A Form of Proxy which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the annual general meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
If you do not have a Form of Proxy and believe that you should have one, please contact Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL.
The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting in person if he or she wishes to do so.
b Should you wish to appoint more than one proxy please photocopy the Form of Proxy indicating on each copy the name of the proxy you wish to appoint, the number of shares in respect of which the proxy is appointed and the way in which you wish them to vote on the resolutions that are to be proposed.
You should send all pages to Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL.
Please also indicate by ticking the box on the Form of Proxy if you intend to appoint more than one proxy.
The following principles shall apply in relation to the appointment of multiple proxies: i The company will give effect to the intentions of members and include votes wherever and to the fullest extent possible.
ii Where a proxy does not state the number of shares to which it applies a blank proxy then, subject to the following principles where more than one proxy is appointed, that proxy is deemed to have been appointed in relation to the total number of shares registered in the name of the appointing member the members entire holding.
In the event of a conict between a blank proxy and a proxy which does state the number of shares to which it applies a specic proxy, the specic proxy shall be counted first, regardless of the time it was sent or received on the basis that, as far as possible, the conicting Forms of Proxy should be judged to be in respect of different shares and remaining shares will be apportioned to the blank proxy pro rata if there is more than one.
iii Where there is more than one proxy appointed and the total number of shares in respect of which proxies are appointed is no greater than the members entire holding, it is assumed that proxies are appointed in relation to different shares, rather than that conicting appointments have been made in relation to the same shares.
That is, there is only assumed to be a conict where the aggregate number of shares in respect of which proxies have been appointed exceeds the members entire holding.
iv When considering conicting proxies, later proxies will prevail over earlier proxies, and which proxy is later will be determined on the basis of which proxy is last sent or, if the company is unable to determine which is last sent, last received.
Proxies in the same envelope will be treated as sent and received at the same time, to minimise the number of conicting proxies.
v If conicting proxies are sent or received at the same time in respect of or deemed to be in respect of an entire holding, none of them shall be treated as valid.
vi Where the aggregate number of shares in respect of which proxies are appointed exceeds a members entire holding and it is not possible to determine the order in which they were sent or received or they were all sent or received at the same time, the number of votes attributed to each proxy will be reduced pro rata.
vii Where the application of paragraph vi above gives rise to fractions of shares, such fractions will be rounded down.
viii If a member appoints a proxy or proxies and then decides to attend the annual general meeting in person and vote, then the vote in person will override the proxy vote s. If the vote in person is in respect of the members entire holding then all proxy votes will be disregarded.
If, however, the member votes at the meeting in respect of less than the members entire holding then if the member indicates that all proxies are to be disregarded, that shall be the case: but if the member does not specically revoke proxies, then the vote in person will be treated in the same way as if it were the last received proxy and earlier proxies will only be disregarded to the extent that to count them would result in the number of votes being cast exceeding the members entire holding.
ix In relation to paragraph viii above, in the event that a member does not specically revoke proxies, it will not be possible for the company to determine the intentions of the member in this regard.
However, in light of the aim to include votes wherever and to the fullest extent possible, it will be assumed that earlier proxies should continue to apply to the fullest extent possible.
co. uk 93 Notice of Annual General Meeting c To be valid at the meeting, the enclosed Form of Proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or notarially certied copy of such power or authority, must be deposited at the ofces of Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
d Only those member registered in the Register of Members of the company 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting.
CREST transactions after that time will not affect entitlements to attend and vote at the meeting and no transfers of securities in certicated form will be registered from that time until the close of the meeting.
e In accordance with section 325 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the right to appoint proxies does not apply to persons nominated to receive information rights under section 146 of the 2006 Act.
Persons nominated to receive information rights under section 146 of the 2006 Act who have been sent a copy of this notice of annual general meeting are hereby informed, in accordance with section 149 2 of the 2006 Act, that they may have a right under an agreement with the registered member by whom they were nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as a proxy for this meeting.
If they have no such right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
f Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 3 July 2008 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless or whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
94 g If a member is a corporation it is entitled to appoint one or more corporate representatives to exercise all or any of its rights to attend and to speak and vote on its behalf at the meeting.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
h Members should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the company under section 527 of the 2006 Act, the company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the annual general meeting.
The company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the annual general meeting includes the statement that the company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
i As at close of business on 23 May 2008 being the last business day prior to publication of this notice, the companys issued share capital comprised 85,130,052 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the company as at 23 May 2008 is 85,130,052. j Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the companys registered ofce during normal business hours of any weekday public holidays excluded until the conclusion of the annual general meeting: i the directors service contracts: ii the register of directors interested in the share capital of the company: iii the companys current articles of association, the New Articles and a marked up copy of the Current Articles: Such documents will also be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting as well as during the meeting.
Copies of the companys current articles of association, the New Articles and a marked up copy of the Current Articles will be available for inspection at the ofces of Hammonds LLP, 7 Devonshire Square London EC2M 4YH during normal business hours of any weekday public holidays excepted until the conclusion of the annual general meeting.
co. uk 95 Findel ra2008 Inner cover:Annual Report 08 6mm spine 23 5 08 20:22 Page 1 Contents 1.
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and 2.
Notes to the Consolidated Governance Report Financial Statements 19.
Independent Auditors Report Directors Remuneration 81.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements 28.
Notice of Annual Statement General Meeting FINDEL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 w w w. f i n d e l. c o. u k Findel ra2008 Outer cover:Annual Report 08 6mm spine 23 5 08 17:13 Page 1 FINDEL PLC www.
co. uk A nnual Report & Accounts 2008 Burley House, Bradford Road, Burley in Wharfedale, West Yorkshire LS29 7DZ www.
