The DTZ Valuations dated 31st August 2005, 31st December 2006, 31st December 2007 and 31st December 2008 include the terms Market Value and Calculation of Worth which are defined in the current version of The Appraisal and Valuation Manual issued by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors the Red Book as: Market Value The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Calculation of Worth The provision of a written estimate of the net monetary worth at a stated date of the benefits and costs of ownership of a specified interest in property to the instructing party reflecting the purpose s specified by that party.
The property development assets which DTZ have valued include the undernoted assets: Land at the Port of Leith covered by the Groups Leith Docks Outline Planning approval: The development sites called The Harbour, Leith Docks, Granton Harbour and Western Harbour, all of which are in Leith: Development sites at Grangemouth, Burntisland and Methil: and The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre.
Property Valuation Approach used by DTZ The undernoted paragraphs are taken from the DTZ valuation report as at 31st December 2008: As a result of the very dramatic changes in the property market and the general economic environment, we have considered it necessary to review our entire approach to the Valuation of the Groups property development assets to reflect what we consider would be the approach the wider market would take were the property assets of the company to be sold at the date of Valuation.
In the past, our opinion of Value has been based on the approach that purchasers of the assets would take a very long term view of the principal properties in the portfolio and reflect future value on a discounted basis, taking account of future sale revenues of the sites after allowing for the cost of providing the infrastructure together with associated costs.
Up until the early part of 2008, there had been a strong appetite from a wide variety of investors seeking an involvement in major mixed use development projects, with both debt and equity available from a wide 128 range of sources.
Whilst the commercial property sector generally started to decline in the early part of 2007, it accelerated throughout the year and started affecting the residential sector in late 2007, with increasing impact throughout 2008, particularly after the various British Banking crises and the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008.
The impact of the banking and economic environment and the downturn in the property sector has required us to reconsider the approach we consider the market would take to the property development assets.
The effect of the downturn on land has been considerably more than the general decline in the value of completed properties in both the commercial and residential sectors.
This is due to the value of land being a factor of end value sale of the completed development and therefore any reduction in end value results in an increased impact in percentage terms on land values.
This clearly operates in the other direction in a rising market.
In terms of the Groups major development projects, many of the sites are no longer viable depending upon what infrastructure has already been put in place.
Our revised approach to the Valuation of the Groups major property development assets is summarised below: Granton Harbour We have allowed development Value on a small section of the site at a discounted rate, but have otherwise disregarded the remainder of the land on the basis that it is not viable to develop reclaim in the current market.
Where land is income producing from the letting of existing property, we have valued on a conventional basis.
Western Harbour The approach has been the same as for Granton Harbour.
We have allowed for the development of a small part of the site, but only included the land at a discounted rate, as viability is marginal.
The Harbour, Leith Docks This part of the proposed development has been significantly impacted by the downturn in the commercial markets, again making the viability of development very marginal.
A value has been applied to the residual land as it does occupy the key part of the main site and the overall entrance to the scheme.
Leith Docks We have disregarded all previous planned development on the site on the basis of viability and reflected a value based on the ongoing use of the site in its Port use.
Grangemouth As with other sites, development land has been substantially marked down to reflect viability and existing income valued in perpetuity.
Burntisland Methil The overall value of the land assets has been marked down, but there is now an improved planning scenario which might allow for a food retail development.
Ocean Terminal This asset has been valued separately by Drivers Jonas.
The downward value reflects the impact on the market of both yield and rental movements in the retail sector and fits in line with our experience generally.
In overall terms, the number of residential development units being valued in the current exercise has fallen from approximately 17,000 to around 2,600.
The result of this is that the overall sensitivity of the valuation is now far less affected by future movements in the residential market.
Over 50% of the value of the assets is now a reflection of cash flow rather than residual development value which reflects the market requirements for certainty and sustainability in values going forward.
The Group has continued to invest in the infrastructure of the various projects and although this has rightly been reduced going forward, it leaves the Group able to reflect future value in the assets as and when the market improves over the next five years.
In the short term, the assumptions we have made assume plot values will continue to decline in the short term as residential values in Scotland continue to fall.
129 Whilst this revised approach reflects our perception of the wider market approach in the current economic environment, it does result in a very significant reduction in the value of the Groups property development assets over the past twelve months, much of which has been driven in the second half of the year.
The reduction in land values reflects what we are seeing across the UK where Companies are using Market Value as their basis of Valuation.
Definition The definition of the word underlying in the context of an adjustment to a reported number is as follows: i Underlying group port property operating profit refers to the reported group port property operating profit adjusted to exclude the effect of any revaluation of the investment properties, amortisation charge arising from acquisitions and any exceptional items.
ii Underlying profit before tax, underlying profit after tax and underlying earnings per share refer to reported profit before tax, reported profit after tax and reported basic earnings per share adjusted as above in 4 i together Annual Report with an adjustment for any revaluation of joint ventures investment property.
