Principal Accounting Policies General Information estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Forth Ports PLC is a company incorporated in accounts and the reported amounts of revenues Scotland under the Companies Act 1985.
The and expenses during the reporting period.
Although address of its registered office is given on page 45. these estimates are based on managements best The nature of the Groups operations and its knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual principal activities are the provision of port, cargo results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
handling, towage and related services and facilities.
The Group also has extensive property interests.
In the current year, two Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations These consolidated accounts have been Committee are effective.
These are: IFRS 2 Group approved for issue by the Board of Directors and Treasury Share Transactions and IFRIC 14 on 16th March 2009.
IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Basis of Preparation Interaction.
The adoption of these Interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups The results have been prepared in accordance with accounting policies.
IFRS and IFRICS as adopted by the EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to At the date of authorisation of these financial companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated statements, the following Standards and accounts have been prepared under the historical Interpretations which have not been applied in these cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial statements were in issue but not yet investment properties at fair value.
effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : The preparation of accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the use of IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Equity or Associate IFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 1 revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 revised 2007 Borrowing Costs IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 75 IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation Improvements to IFRSs May 2008 The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Currently investment property in the course of standards and interpretations in future periods will construction is included in Property, Plant and have no material impact on the accounts of the Equipment as Capital Work in Progress.
The Group except for an amendment to IAS 40 estimated impact that this is expected to have on Investment Property contained in Improvements to the Groups financial statements when the IFRS May 2008.
Investment property in the course amendment is adopted will depend on market of construction will be recognised in investment conditions at that time, but could be material.
property and measured at fair value.
