The Group documents at the inception of the Key Assumptions and Estimates transaction, the relationship between hedging The Group makes estimates and assumptions instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk concerning the future.
The resulting estimates will, management objective and strategy for undertaking by definition, seldom equal the related actual various hedge transactions.
The Board has considered the critical linking all derivatives designated as hedges to accounting estimates and assumptions used in the specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm Accounts and concluded that the main area of commitments or forecast transactions.
The Group significant risk which may cause a material also documents its assessment, both at the hedge adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the liabilities within the next financial year is in respect derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are of the assumptions used to calculate pension highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or benefits.
The assumptions include gilt yield at the cash flows or hedged items.
year end, investment return including a risk margin over gilt yield, price and salary inflation and Fair Value Estimation of Financial mortality assumptions.
For example, a 0.25% Instruments change in the discount rate assumed could affect The fair value of publicly traded derivatives and the shortfall position within the Scheme positively or trading and available-for-sale securities is based on negatively by over 7.5m and a one year increase in quoted market prices at the Balance Sheet date.
life expectancy would increase the liabilities by The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as nearly 4.0m.
Full details of the assumptions used the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
to calculate the pension assets and liabilities may be found in Note 32.
In assessing the fair value of non-traded derivatives and other financial instruments, the Group uses a For information on key assumptions and estimates variety of methods and makes assumptions that are used in the property valuation please refer to based on market conditions existing at each Note 19.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the specific or similar instruments are Impairment assumptions relating to Goodwill are as used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as noted in Note 15. option pricing models and estimated discounted value of future cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
The face value less any estimated credit 83 adjustments for financial assets and liabilities with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
