Principal Accounting Policies continued Trade Receivables and Accrued Cash and Cash Equivalents Property Income Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the Trade receivables and accrued property income are Balance Sheet at cost.
For the purposes of the Cash carried at original invoice amount less an allowance Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents made for impairment of these receivables.
An comprise cash on hand, deposits held at call with allowance for impairment of trade receivables and banks, other short-term highly liquid investments accrued property income is established when there with original maturities of three months or less is objective evidence that the Group will not be able and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included to collect all amounts due according to the original within borrowings in current liabilities on the terms of the receivables.
The amount of the Balance Sheet.
allowance is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the Share Capital present value of expected cash flows, discounted Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental at the market rate of interest for similar borrowers.
external costs directly attributable to the issue of The carrying amount of the asset is reduced new shares, other than in connection with business through the use of this impairment allowance and combinations, are shown in equity as a deduction, the amount of the loss is recognised in the Income net of tax, from the proceeds.
In future periods the unwinding of the discount is recognised within finance income.
Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchases the Companys equity share capital, the Borrowing Costs consideration paid including any attributable Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incremental external costs net of income taxes is incurred.
The Groups policy is to capitalise interest deducted from total shareholders equity as own and other borrowing costs directly incurred with shares held.
Where such shares are subsequently respect to the acquisition or development of sold, any consideration received is included in qualifying assets.
Such costs are capitalised and shareholders equity.
included in the carrying value of the assets.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs commences when: Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially as the proceeds expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs received, net of transaction costs incurred.
are incurred: and Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised activities necessary to prepare the asset for its cost using the effective yield method: any difference intended use or sale are in progress.
80 between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income If active development is interrupted for an extended Statement over the period of the borrowings.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its Accounting for Taxation intended use or sale.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the A weighted average cost of borrowing is used.
period and takes into account deferred taxation.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the accounts.
Current tax rates in the relevant jurisdiction are used in the determination of deferred income tax.
