Principal Accounting Policies continued Depreciation is charged to write off the cost less any Intangible Assets residual value of the asset on a straight line basis Intangible assets refer principally to computer over the estimated useful lives as follows: software and customer relationships.
Buildings and dock structures 15-50 years Costs associated with developing or maintaining Plant and equipment 3-35 years computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are directly Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater associated with identifiable and unique software than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written products controlled by the Group and which will down immediately to its recoverable amount.
probably generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible Gains and losses on disposals of assets are included assets.
Direct costs include staff costs of those in operating profit.
involved in the software development.
Repairs and maintenance are charged to the Income Expenditure which enhances or extends the Statement during the financial period in which they performance of identifiable computer software are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is products beyond their original specifications is included in the carrying amount of the assets when it recognised as a capital improvement and added is probable that future economic benefits in excess to the original cost of the software.
of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Group.
Major Computer software development costs recognised renovations are depreciated over the remaining life as assets are amortised using the straight-line of the related asset.
method over their useful lives, not exceeding a period of 10 years.
Investment Property If a business is acquired which has long-term Investment property, principally comprising tenanted customer relationships, those relationships are land and buildings within the port estates, is held for valued and an intangible asset set up to reflect that long-term rental yields and is not occupied by the value and are written off on a straight line basis over Group.
Investment property is treated as a long-term a period of up to 15 years.
investment and is carried at fair value determined annually or at interim balance sheet dates where there is a material change in fair value.
Changes in Impairment of Assets fair values are recorded in the Income Statement in Property, plant and equipment and other nonaccordance with IAS 40 and are included in other 78 current assets, excluding goodwill, are reviewed income or taken directly to reserves as appropriate.
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount which is the higher of an assets net selling price and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Investment in Subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any permanent diminution in value by the Company.
