Goodwill Profits and losses arising on the sale of sites or completed developments are recognised when Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition over contracts for sale have been exchanged and all the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities material conditions have been satisfied.
The Board and recognised contingent liabilities of the business will have due regard to all the circumstances of any acquired.
individual transaction in determining whether or not any conditions are material or have been satisfied.
Goodwill on businesses acquired after 1st January 1999 is shown as an intangible asset with an Where sites or completed developments are sold to indefinite useful life and is subject to an annual joint ventures or associates, profits are only impairment test and is also subject to a test recognised in proportion to third parties interests in whenever there is an indication of impairment.
The remaining profits are recognised Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1st January when the sites or completed developments are sold 1999 was written off immediately against reserves.
by the joint ventures or associates to unrelated parties.
Where there is an excess of the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets Consideration is given to the collectability of any over the purchase price negative goodwill, this debt outstanding arising from the sale of sites or amount is taken to the Income Statement in the year property developments and provisions are made of acquisition.
The need for such provisions is reviewed on a regular basis.
Segmental Reporting Property, Plant and Equipment The Group has identified two primary business segments that provide services that are subject to Operational land and buildings and plant and risks and returns that are different from one another.
equipment are stated at historical cost less Information relating to Ports and Property segments depreciation.
Land and capital works in progress are shown.
All inter-segment transactions and are not depreciated.
Cost is the original purchase balances are eliminated on consolidation.
The price of the asset and the cost of bringing the Group considers that all revenues, costs, assets and asset to its current condition and includes transfers liabilities can be identified as relating to either Ports from equity of any gains losses on qualifying cash or Property.
Port income includes rental and other flow hedges of foreign currency purchase costs income from investment property located within or where appropriate.
All operational buildings and plant and equipment in 77 Revenue Recognition the course of construction are recorded as capital work in progress until such time as they are brought Revenue from Port activities represents the income into use by the Group.
Capital work in progress earned from the provision of port facilities, which includes all direct expenditure and may include comprise cargo handling, towage, pilotage, capitalised interest in accordance with the conservancy services and port related rental accounting policy on that subject.
Such revenue is recorded once the service such assets are transferred to the appropriate has been provided, and revenue from paper sales is asset category.
shown on the basis of net commission.
Revenue from Property includes rental income and sales of In circumstances where there is a change in use of property developments.
Rental income net of any operational land and buildings to investment incentives given to lessees is recognised on a property, the fair value of the asset is established at straight line basis over the lease term.
Revenue a date when it has been decided to transfer the excludes value added tax and is shown on a gross asset from operational land and buildings to basis in relation to recoverable charges such as investment property.
utilities, recoverable overtime and recoverable plant hire costs.
