Finance and Operating Leases Provisions Leases of assets where the Group has substantially Provisions are recognised when the Group has a all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified present legal or constructive obligation as a result of as finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance past events where it is probable that an outflow of leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at resources will be required to settle the obligation the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
present value of the minimum lease payments, and are depreciated over their useful lives.
The interest The Group recognises a provision for onerous element of the rental payments is charged to the contracts when the expected benefits to be derived Income Statement over the period of the lease from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs contract on the basis of the capital element of meeting the obligations under the contract.
The finance charges outstanding are included in short-term and long-term payables Restructuring provisions are recognised in the as appropriate.
period in which the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation for payment.
Costs relating Leases where a significant portion of the risks and to the ongoing activities of the Group are not rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are provided in advance.
The cost of operating leases is charged to the Income Statement on a Dividends straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Dividends are recorded in the Groups accounts in the period in which they are approved by the Lease Incentives shareholders or when paid in the case of interim Any lease incentive paid or payable for the dividends.
Inter Group dividends are recorded in agreement of a new or existing operating lease is the period in which they are approved and paid allocated over the term of the lease regardless of its by the subsidiary companys Board.
Such incentives are recognised over the lease term, unless another Inventories systematic basis is appropriate, in order to ensure Property work in progress relates to expenditure on the Income Statement reflects the true effective property development projects, land held for rental charge irrespective of the particular cash flow development and project work in progress and is arrangements agreed.
included at cost less amounts written off which are deemed to be irrecoverable.
Cost includes all direct Grants relating to the Purchase of expenditure and associated indirect costs and 79 Property, Plant and Equipment related costs of finance where appropriate.
On completion, such assets are transferred to Capital grants are recognised at their fair value investment properties or sold to third parties.
where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will comply with all conditions pertaining to the grant.
Grants receivable are credited against the carrying value of the assets to which the grant relates.
The amount amortised in each period is set against the depreciation charge of the asset to which it relates.
