Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Summary of the material changes to the Articles meetings to consider special resolutions can now of Association of the Company be convened on 14 clear days notice whereas The principal changes arising from the adoption of previously 21 clear days notice was required.
An the New Articles of Association pursuant to annual general meeting still requires 21 clear days Resolution 11 the New Articles are set out below.
References to Article numbers are references to a particular Article in the New Articles.
Certain Votes of Members provisions in the current Articles which replicate The new Articles reflect the changes made under provisions contained in companies legislation are in the 2006 Act in relation to proxies.
Proxies are now the main amended to bring them into line with the entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
Certain the previous legislation and under the existing examples of such provisions, including provisions Articles proxies were only entitled to vote on a poll.
as to the convening of General Meetings and The time limits for the appointment of proxies have proxies, are detailed below.
also been altered by the 2006 Act so that weekends and bank holidays do not need to be counted in Uncertificated Shares determining the time limits for lodging of proxies.
The existing Articles contain provisions permitting Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that the holding of shares in uncertificated form in each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights accordance with the CREST uncertificated securities attached to a different share or class of shares held system.
Under the Uncertificated Securities by the shareholder.
Regulations 2001, Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited Euroclear is the holder of the register of the Corporate Representatives uncertificated shares in the issuer.
The Registrar The 2006 Act permits a corporate shareholder to continues to hold the register of the certificated appoint multiple corporate representatives who can shares but it is only a copy record obtained from attend, speak, vote and count towards a quorum at Euroclear of uncertificated shares held by the any meeting.
The New Articles have been amended issuer.
The New Articles have been updated to include Retirement of Directors by Rotation reference to Euroclear and also to provide that the The Combined Code on Corporate Governance Company will not be liable for a failure of its recommends that all directors must submit obligation to maintain a register of uncertificated themselves for re-election at every third annual shares.
general meeting following the meeting at which they were elected or last re-elected.
The Company has Form of Resolution complied with the provisions of the Code and the 135 The existing Articles contain provisions referring to New Articles reflect this position.
extraordinary resolutions and extraordinary general meetings.
These terms have been abolished Conflicts of Interest under the 2006 Act.
Meetings of shareholders other The New Articles reflect the new provisions of the than annual general meetings are now referred to 2006 Act in relation to directors conflicts of interest.
Any resolution The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties requiring a 75% majority will be a special resolution.
which largely codify the existing law but with some Where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is changes.
Under the 2006 Act, a director must avoid required a special resolution is also effective.
a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with Convening of General Meetings and Annual the Companys interest.
The requirement is very General Meetings broad and could apply, for example, if a director The provisions of the existing Articles dealing with becomes a director of another company.
The 2006 the convening of general meetings and annual Act allows directors of public companies to general meetings and the length of notice required authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where to convene such meetings are amended to conform appropriate, but only to the extent that the Articles Annual Report to the new provisions of the 2006 Act.
General of Association contain a provision to this effect.
and Accounts 2008 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The 2006 Act also allows Articles to contain other Electronic Communications provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of The New Articles contain amendments designed to interest to avoid a breach of duty.
allow the Company to use electronic systems for communication with shareholders.
Companies have There are safeguards which will apply when been able to communicate with shareholders by directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or electronic means in respect of certain types of potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no information for some years.
However the 2006 Act interest in the matter being considered will be able extends this method of communication to all to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking shareholder information and enables the Company the decision, the directors must act in a way they to invite shareholders to agree that information may consider, in good faith, will be most likely to be supplied via a website.
The amendments to the promote the Companys success.
The directors will New Articles allow the Company to take advantage be able to impose limits or conditions when giving of these changes which may lead to administrative authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
cost savings in the future and will benefit the environment.
The New Articles also contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board It is however important to note that before doing so meetings and the availability of board papers to the Company must write to all shareholders and protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict give them the opportunity to decide whether they of interest or a potential conflict of interest arises.
would prefer to receive documents in hard copy form.
They are given a period to respond and, if The New Articles also give the directors authority to they do not, website communication becomes the approve situations involving directors conflicts of default method.
interest and to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with by the Board.
Indemnity The 2006 Act extends the scope of the indemnities Directors Fees that may be offered to directors under the existing It is proposed that the cap on directors fees be law by allowing the company to indemnify the removed.
Shareholders should note that this cap directors of a company that is a trustee of an applies to non-executive directors fees only.
The occupational pension scheme against any liability remuneration of the executive directors is the incurred in connection with the Companys activity responsibility of the Remuneration Committee.
The New Articles have been amended to allow this form of indemnity to be Borrowing Powers granted by the Company.
The Board believes that The existing Articles of the Company place limits on the power of the Company to indemnify its directors 136 the extent to which the Board can exercise the in the manner described above is fair and powers of the Company to borrow money.
These reasonable and introduces a more appropriate restrictions provide that the Company shall not balance of risk and reward for any person asked to borrow more than three times its adjusted capital serve on the board of a pension trustee company.
and reserves without the approval of the shareholders.
This formula has proved somewhat complex to operate and it is therefore proposed that the formula is replaced by a monetary cap.
The monetary cap proposed is 550 million which is the monetary equivalent of the limit in the existing Articles of Association.
