Corporate Governance Report The Directors are committed to high standards of The Directors believe that it is essential that the corporate governance.
The way in which the Group should be led and controlled by an effective Company applies the principles set out in the Board.
The Board has adopted a formal Schedule of Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by Matters specifically reserved to it on such matters as: the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code is described below.
Agreeing objectives, policies and strategies and monitoring the performance of the Executive Compliance Statement Directors and Senior Management: The Company has been in compliance with all Controlling and monitoring the financial relevant provisions of the Combined Code performance of the Group: throughout the year under review.
Reviewing strategic options on an annual basis to include any major changes in organisation The Combined Code and direction of the Group: Application of Principles Approving major expenditure and transactions with other companies including, for example, A.
Directors acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures: The Board Ensuring compliance in relation to Christopher Collins is the Non-Executive Chairman of a Safety, health and environmental matters the Board and Charles Hammond is the Group Chief b Corporate Governance Executive.
Gerry Brown is Senior Independent Delegating clear responsibility and authority to Director.
At the beginning of the year, the Board of the Chairman, Committees of the Board, the Directors comprised five Non-Executive Directors and Group Chief Executive and other Directors: three Executive Directors.
The Board considers all its Compliance with the Companies Act, UK Listing Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of the Authority, London Stock Exchange and other Chairman, to be independent.
regulations: and Consideration and approval of strategy, budgets No Non-Executive Director has served on the Board and major management financial decisions as for more than nine years from the date of his determined from time to time by the Board.
The Board has adopted the principle that Non-Executive Directors should normally serve 50 Board Meetings two three year terms and that any term beyond six The Board met seven times last year for regular years should be subject to particularly rigorous business and the Directors participated in the Annual review.
In any event, no Non-Executive Director shall Strategy Conference.
The Board meets as necessary serve longer than nine years.
Christopher Collins was for any matters arising at other times.
At each Board appointed for a third term in 2006. meeting, the Board considers reports from each of the Executive Directors covering his area of As noted on page 22, Christopher Collins will be responsibility.
retiring at the end of the year and David Richardson will succeed him as Chairman.
An Annual General Meeting is held every year.
All Directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The attendance at Board Meetings during 2008 was Group Company Secretary as shown below: The Group Company Secretary is responsible for Meetings ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules Name Attended and regulations are observed.
All Directors have Christopher Collins 6 access to the advice and services of the Group Charles Hammond 7 Company Secretary.
The Group Company Secretary Wilson Murray 7 is also responsible for ensuring that the Directors Perry Glading 7 are fully aware of their duties and responsibilities Gerry Brown 7 as Directors and that they undertake appropriate Struan Robertson 7 training.
David Richardson 7 James Tuckey 6 Independent Advice There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take The Chairman holds one meeting with the independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Companys expense.
Unresolved Concerns Sub-Committees of the Board Where Directors have concerns which cannot be The Board has delegated certain matters to three resolved in connection with the running of the sub-committees of the Board comprising the Audit Company or a proposed action, their concerns are Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the recorded in the Board Minutes.
Details of the membership of Director resigns, he is required to provide a written each sub-committee are shown on pages 55 to 67. statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board, if he has any such concerns.
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, the various sub-committee meetings Insurance Cover for the period under review: The Company purchases insurance to cover its Audit Remuneration Nomination Directors and Officers and the Trustees of its pension Committee Committee Committee scheme against the costs of defending themselves in No.
of meetings held 3 4 1 51 civil legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from Name the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the Christopher Collins n a n a 1 extent permitted by UK Law, the Company also Gerry Brown 3 4 1 indemnifies its Directors, Officers and Trustees.
Struan Robertson 3 4 1 Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides David Richardson 3 3 1 cover where a Director, Officer or Trustee has acted James Tuckey 3 3 1 fraudulently or dishonestly.
Charles Hammond n a n a 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
