Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that In both cases, the Group makes a charge to the it is probable that future taxable profit will be Income Statement over the option period that available against which the temporary differences recognises the fair value of the share options at the can be utilised.
date of their grant, having regard as appropriate to such factors as the weighted average share price, Deferred income tax is provided on temporary exercise price where applicable, expected differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, dividends, the risk-free interest rate and the associates and joint ventures, except where the expected rates of early exercise.
timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the Financial Risk Management temporary difference will not reverse in the Financial Risk Factors foreseeable future.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including the effects of changes in Employee Benefits debt prices, foreign currency exchange rates and Pension contributions are charged principally at a interest rates.
The Groups overall risk management rate calculated by the Actuary to provide, over the programme focuses on the unpredictability of expected remaining service lives of current financial markets and seeks to minimise potential employees, for all retirement benefits related to adverse effects on the financial performance of the projected final salaries and wages.
The Group may use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange contracts and The liability in respect of defined benefit pension interest rate swaps to hedge certain exposures.
plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date minus the fair Risk management is carried out by a central value of plan assets, together with adjustments for treasury function Group Treasury, operating under past service cost.
The defined benefit obligation is policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Group calculated by independent actuaries using the Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial projected unit credit method.
The present value of risks in close co-operation with the Groups the defined benefit obligation is determined by the operating units.
estimated future cash outflows using market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
Foreign Exchange Risk The Group has relatively little exposure to foreign Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full as exchange risk.
Where appropriate, entities in they arise in the Statement of Recognised Income the Group use forward contracts, transacted and Expense.
by Group Treasury, to hedge their exposure to 81 foreign currency risk in connection with the Share Based Payment measurement currency.
The Group awards shares in Forth Ports PLC to all Where appropriate, the Group hedges the foreign eligible Executive Directors and Senior Managers currency exposure of its contract commitments to under the LTIPs which were approved at the Annual purchase certain assets mainly from Europe.
The General Meetings of the Company in May 2002 and forward contracts used in its programme mature in 2006.
The shares are granted to the employee at nil twelve months or less, consistent with the related cost.
In addition, all eligible employees were offered purchase commitments.
the opportunity to take part in an approved Save As You Earn SAYE scheme which started in 2004 as approved at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in May 2004.
The option price was granted to employees at a discount to the market price of the shares at the date of issue.
