Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting Friday 1st 9.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following May 2009 at 11.00am in The Board Room, The Special Resolution: Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 8 above, the Directors be and they are hereby PLEASE NOTE that the eighteenth Annual General empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Meeting of FORTH PORTS PLC will be held in The Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities Board Room, The Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 11.00am on Friday Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred 1st May 2009, for the following purposes: by Resolution 8 as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such Ordinary Business allotment provided that this power shall be 1.
To receive the Directors Report and accounts limited: for the year ended 31st December 2008. i to the allotment of equity securities for cash 2.
To declare a final dividend of 12p per Ordinary in connection with or pursuant to a rights Share in the capital of the Company.
issue or any other offer in favour of the holders of equity securities and any other 3.
To re-elect Mr. C. D. Collins as a Director.
persons entitled to participate therein in proportion as nearly as may be practicable 4.
To re-elect Mr. C. G. Hammond as a Director.
to the respective number of equity securities then held by them or, as appropriate, the 5.
To re-elect Mr. P. D. Glading as a Director.
number of such securities which such other persons are, for those purposes, deemed to 6.
To receive and consider the Directors hold but not subject to such exclusions or Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st other arrangements as the Directors may December 2008. consider necessary, expedient or appropriate to deal with any functional 7.
To ratify the re-appointment of entitlements or legal or practical difficulties  LLP as auditors of the which may arise under the laws of, or the Company and to authorise the Directors to requirement of any recognised regulatory agree their remuneration.
body or any stock exchange in, any territory or otherwise: and Special Business 8.
To consider and if thought fit to pass the ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to 132 following Ordinary Resolution: sub-paragraph i above of equity securities and or the transfer of shares out of Treasury the Directors be and they are hereby generally following purchase pursuant to Resolution and unconditionally authorised to exercise all 10 vi below up to an aggregate nominal powers of the Company to allot relevant value of 1.14m: and shall expire on the securities within the meaning of Section 80 of date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate the Company after the passing of this nominal amount of 6.2m during the period Resolution, or on 31st July 2010 whichever expiring on the date of the next Annual General is the earlier, the Prescribed Period save Meeting of the Company after the passing of that after such expiry, the Directors may allot this Resolution, or on 31st July 2010 whichever equity securities in pursuance of an offer or is the earlier, the Prescribed Period and at agreement made by the Company during any time after that pursuant to any offer or the Prescribed Period which would or might agreement made by the Company during the require relevant securities to be allotted after Prescribed Period which would or might require the expiry of the Prescribed Period.
relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of the Prescribed Period.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following Kingdom Listing Authority, to be held as Special Resolution: Treasury Shares.
THA T the Company be and is hereby generally 11.
To consider and if thought fit pass the following and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and Special Resolution: in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make one or THAT the draft regulations produced to the more market purchases within the meaning of meeting and, for the purposes of identification, section 163 3 of the Act on The London Stock initialled by the Chairman of the Meeting be Exchange of Ordinary Shares of 50p each in the adopted as the Articles of Association of the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares Company in substitution for, and to the entire upon and subject to the following conditions: exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
i the maximum number of such Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 6.846 million shares representing 15% of By Order Of The Board the Companys issued share capital : ii the minimum price which may be paid by Morag McNeill the Company for each Ordinary Share is 50 Group Company Secretary pence exclusive of any tax and expenses : 1 Prince of Wales Dock iii the maximum price exclusive of any tax and Leith expenses which may be paid by the Edinburgh Company for an Ordinary Share is an EH6 7DX amount not more than 5% above the average of the middle market values for an 31st March 2009 Ordinary Share taken from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased: iv unless previously revoked or varied the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this Resolution or on 31st July 2010, whichever 133 shall be the earlier: v the Company may enter into a contract or contracts for the purchase of Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred before the expiry of this authority which would or might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase or purchases of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts notwithstanding such expiry: vi and any Ordinary Shares so purchased shall be cancelled or if the Directors so determine and subject to the provision of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 and any Annual Report applicable regulations of the United and Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Copies of the following documents will be available Corporate Representatives for inspection at the registered office of the In order to facilitate voting by corporate Company on any weekday, except Saturdays and representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be public holidays, during normal business hours until put in place at the meeting so that: 30th April 2009.
They will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 10.45am i If a corporate member has appointed the until the meeting ends: Chairman of the meeting as his corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll i Service contracts between the Company and in accordance with the directions of all other the Executive Directors and of the letters of corporate representatives for that meeting at the appointment between the Company and the meeting, then, on a poll, those corporate Non-Executive Directors: and representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or ii A copy of the proposed new Articles of withhold a vote as corporate representative in Association for the Company.
A copy of the proposed new Articles of Association ii If more than one corporate representative for the of the Company will also be available for inspection same corporate member attends the meeting at the offices of McGrigors LLP, 5 Old Bailey, London but the corporate member has not appointed EC4M 7BA during normal business hours on any the Chairman of the meeting as his corporate week day up to and including the date of the Annual representative, a designated corporate General Meeting.
representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will The register of Directors shareholdings will be vote on a poll and the other corporate available for inspection at the place of the meeting, representatives will give voting directions to that from the beginning of the meeting until it ends.
Proxies Corporate members are referred to the guidance A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and may appoint one or more persons as his proxy to Administrators on proxies and corporate attend, speak and vote on his behalf at the meeting.
uk for further A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The guidance includes a Form of Proxy is enclosed.
Completion of a Form of sample form of representation letter to appoint the Proxy will not prevent a member from attending the Chairman as a corporate representative as meeting and voting in person if he so wishes.
134 order to be valid, a Form of Proxy must be lodged at the offices of the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy, provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
A member may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
To appoint more than one proxy, contact the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited at the address stated above.
