Principal Accounting Policies continued Exceptional Items recognised in the Income Statement and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is Exceptional items are those material items of recognised in reserves.
The cumulative postincome and expenditure which the Group has acquisition movements are adjusted against the disclosed separately because of their quantum or cost of the investment.
Unrealised gains on incidence so as to give a clearer understanding of transactions between the Group and its associates the Groups financial performance.
are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates: unrealised losses are also eliminated The Group has also separately disclosed the effect unless the transaction provides evidence of an of revaluation of investment properties per IAS 40. impairment of the asset transferred.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill net of Consolidation accumulated amortisation on acquisition.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or 1.
Subsidiaries exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does Subsidiaries which are those entities including not recognise further losses, unless the Group has Special Purpose Entities in which the Group has an incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of interest of more than one half of the voting rights or the associates.
otherwise has power to govern the financial and operating policies are consolidated.
Joint Ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement The existence and effect of potential voting rights whereby two or more parties undertake an that are presently exercisable or presently economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The convertible are considered when assessing whether Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for the Group controls another entity.
by the equity method of accounting.
The investment in the joint venture is initially recorded at cost and is Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change which control is transferred to the Group and are no in the Groups share of net assets of the jointly longer consolidated from the date that control controlled entity.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the purchase of subsidiaries.
The Group Income Statement includes the Groups The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair share of the profit or loss of the joint venture.
The value of the assets given up, shares issued or Group recognises the portion of gains or losses on liabilities undertaken at the date of acquisition plus the sale of assets by the Group to the joint venture costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The that is attributable to the other venturers.
The Group excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value does not recognise its share of profits or losses 76 of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired is from the joint venture that result from the purchase recorded as goodwill.
Intercompany transactions, of assets by the Group from the joint venture until it balances and unrealised gains on transactions resells the assets to an independent party.
However, between group companies are eliminated fully on if a loss on the transaction provides evidence of a consolidation: unrealised losses are also eliminated reduction in the net realisable value of current unless costs cannot be recovered.
Where assets or an impairment loss, the loss is recognised necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have immediately.
When the Groups share of losses of a been changed to ensure consistency with the joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the policies adopted by the Group.
joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses unless the Group has incurred obligations or 2.
Associates made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
Under this method the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of associates is
