Corporate Governance Report continued Annual Evaluation of Performance External Audit Process An annual evaluation of the Boards performance and The Audit Committee has reviewed and monitored that of its sub-committees, individual Directors and the effectiveness of the external audit process by way Chairman is undertaken.
Each Director receives a of a questionnaire which reviewed, on a graded Board Performance Evaluation Questionnaire and scale, the robustness of the audit, the quality of separate Committee Performance Evaluation Forms delivery and the quality of people and service.
The where appropriate for use in assessing the Boards Audit Committee was satisfied as to the effectiveness own performance and that of the Audit and of the external audit process.
As the Nomination Committee meets infrequently, there is no separate B.
Directors Remuneration Performance Evaluation Questionnaire for that Reference is made to the Directors Remuneration Committee however any comments on the Report on page 58 which sets out the composition of Nomination Committee may be sent to the Group the Remuneration Committee, the Companys Company Secretary as part of the Board remuneration policy for Directors and details of such Questionnaire.
remuneration including bonus schemes and pensions for each Director, and the Committees The Committee Performance Evaluation compliance with all relevant sections of the Questionnaires consider fulfilment of terms of Combined Code.
reference, necessary skills and resources of members, evaluation of the supporting processes All Executive Directors are on one year rolling for the Committee and an overall view of the contracts.
The results were compiled and addressed by the Group Company No Executive Director who has external Directorships Secretary and reported to the Board.
The results is currently paid for these Directorships.
were considered by the Board at its March meeting in 2009.
No major changes were implemented as a C. Relations with Shareholders result of this review.
The Company encourages regular dialogue with institutional shareholders based on a mutual An evaluation of the performance of the Group Chief understanding of objectives.
52 Executive and each of the other Non-Executive Directors was undertaken by the Chairman.
The Board receives reports prepared by the Companys broker which reflect the views of the The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior major shareholders on an unattributable basis Independent Director, met once without the Chairman following the half-yearly and annual presentations to and the Executive Directors to evaluate the major shareholders.
The Board also receives copies performance of the Chairman.
of analysts reports on a regular basis.
As part of the annual budget presentation to the In 2008, the Chairman met, or had discussions with Board, the Board reviews the targets which were certain of the Companys major shareholders.
As part given to individual Executive Directors and Senior of the governance process, other major shareholders Managers within the Group and subsequently were offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman discusses and approves the targets to be given to should they so wish.
The Senior Independent these individuals for the following year.
Director is also available for meetings if requested.
