Principal Accounting Policies continued Interest Rate Risk Compliance with banking covenants is discussed The Group borrows at variable rates and may use in the Chairmans Statement.
interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges of future interest payments, which have the economic effect Accounting for Derivative Financial of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed Instruments and Hedging Activities rates.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified Derivative financial instruments are initially intervals mainly quarterly, the difference between recognised in the Balance Sheet at their fair value.
fixed contract rates and floating rate interest The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss amounts calculated by reference to the agreed is dependent on the nature of the item being notional principal amounts.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either a hedge of the fair value of a recognised Credit Risk asset or liability fair value hedge or a hedge of a The Groups policy is to ensure that property sales forecasted transaction or of a firm commitment are covered by either controlled release of land cash flow hedge.
plots in exchange for cash, fixed charge securities or bank bonds.
The Group also checks that Port Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are customers have an appropriate credit history when designated and qualify as fair value hedges and that likely future revenue exceeds limits agreed by the are highly effective, are recorded in the Income Board.
Derivative counter-parties and cash Statement, along with any changes in the fair value transactions are limited to quality financial of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to institutions with a long-term Standard & Poors the hedged risk.
During the period the Group did credit index rating of at least A. not hold any fair value hedges.
Liquidity Risk Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are Prudent liquidity risk management implies designated and qualify as cash flow hedges and maintaining sufficient cash and marketable that are highly effective, are recognised in equity.
securities, the availability of funding through an Where the forecasted transaction or firm adequate amount of committed credit facilities and commitment results in the recognition of an asset the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the for example, property, plant and equipment or of a dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in Group Treasury aims at maintaining flexibility in equity are transferred from equity and included in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, amounts deferred in equity are Capital Risk Management transferred to the Income Statement and classified 82 The Groups objectives when managing capital are as revenue or expense in the same periods during to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a which the hedged firm commitments or forecasted going concern in order to provide returns for transaction affects the Income Statement for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders.
example, when the forecasted sale takes place.
The Group has the authority to return capital to shareholders.
It may issue new shares or sell assets When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or to reduce debt.
when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting under IAS 39, any cumulative Consistent with others in the industry, the Group gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
equity and is recognised when the committed or This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total forecasted transaction ultimately is recognised in capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings the Income Statement.
When a committed or including current and non-current borrowings forecasted transaction is no longer expected to as shown in the consolidated Balance Sheet occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is in equity is immediately transferred to the Income calculated as equity as shown in the consolidated Statement.
