GLOSSARY Annual Report The annual report of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and comprising the Chairmans Letter, Chief Executives Statement, Business Review, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Report, Directors Remuneration Report, the Financial Statements and accompanying notes AGM or Annual General Meeting The annual general meeting of the Company which is scheduled to be held on Wednesday 27 May 2009 at 11.30am in the ofces of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street London EC2Y 8HQ Articles of Association The articles of association of the Company which took effect on 1 October 2008 Audit Committee The audit committee of the Board Board The board of directors of the Company Capex Capital expenditures: expenditures not classied as operating costs CBGA Central Bank Gold Agreement, a multilateral agreement by which central banks agree a framework for trading in gold reserves Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council dated June 2006 as amended Comex US Commodity Exchange Company [see also Fresnillo plc] Fresnillo plc, a company incorporated under the Companies Act 1985 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 Concentrate A metal-rich product resulting from a mineral enrichment process such as gravity concentration or otation, in which most of the desired mineral has been separated from the waste material in the ore Concentrator Equipment used in the reduction of ore Cut and ll A method of stoping in which ore is removed in slices and the resulting excavation lled with waste material backll which supports the walls of the stope when the next cut is mined Dilution Waste, which is unavoidably mined with ore Diamond drilling A drilling method where the rock is cut with a diamond bit attached to hollow rods: it cuts a core of rock, recovered in cylindrical sections for geological analysis Directors The directors of the Company Dor Dor bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is generally the final product of mining and processing: the dor bullion will be transported to be rened to high purity metal.
DTR The disclosure and transparency rules made by the FSA EBITDA Gross profit plus depreciation included within cost of sales, less administrative expenses and exploration expenses.
EPS The amount of attributable profit available to equity shareholders, as calculated by dividing attributable profit for the period by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
ETF Exchange traded funds 140 GLOSSARY Executive Committee The executive committee of the Board Executive Directors The executive directors of the Company Feasibility study A comprehensive engineering estimate of all costs, revenues, equipment requirements and production levels likely to be achieved if a mine is developed: the study is used to define the technical and economic viability of a project and to support the search for project nancing Financial Statements The company and parent company financial statements of the Company and accompanying notes for the year ended 31 December 2008 Flotation A recovery process by which valuable minerals are separated from waste to produce a concentrate: selected minerals are induced to become attached to air bubbles and oat Fresnillo Group Fresnillo plc and its subsidiary undertakings Fresnillo plc [see also Company] A company incorporated under the Companies Act 1985 and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 FSA The Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom FTSE 100 Financial Times Stock Exchange Index of the top 100 companies by capitalisation GJ Gigajoules Global Offering [also IPO, Listing] The listing of the Companys Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange on 14 May 2008 g t Grams per tonne Grade The measure of concentration of metal within mineralised rock Haulage A horizontal underground excavation which is used to transport mined ore Heap leaching A process by which crushed ore is irrigated with a dilute cyanide solution that percolates through the heap and leaches out the precious metal Hectare A unit of area equal to 10,000 square metres, or 2.47 acres Hoist Equipment used in underground mining to raise and lower conveyances within the mine shaft HSECR Committee Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee IAS International Accounting Standards IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Independent Non-executive Directors The non-executive directors of the Company who are independent of Peoles as dened by the Relationship Agreement IPO [also Listing, Global Offering] Initial Public Offering: the listing of the Companys Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange on 14 May 2008 ISO 14001 An international environmental management system standard published by the International Organisation for Standardisation 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 141 FRESNILLO PLC GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC Code Code developed by the Australian Joint Ore Reserves Committee for reporting mine reserves and resources Jumbo Drill rig equipped with multiple drills mounted on a mobile carriage JV Joint venture Knelson gravimetric concentrator A uidized centrifuge that separates heavy material such as gold from lighter background material: applied to materials in which the heavy component to be recovered is a very small fraction of the total material, generally less than 500 grams tonne or 0.05% by weight kOz Thousand troy ounces KPI Key Performance Indicator kt Thousand tonnes Leaching The process by which soluble constituents are dissolved and carried down through the soil by a percolating uid LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate Listing [also Global Offering, IPO] The listing of the Companys Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange on 14 May 2008 Listing Rules Rules relating to the admission to the ofcial List maintained by the Financial Services Authority in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 LME London Metals Exchange Load-Haul-Dump machines A vehicle with a large bucket on the front used for transporting ore to crushing stations LSE London Stock Exchange plc 3 M Cubic metres Met-Mex Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. the operator of a rening and smelting facility in Torron a 100% subsidiary of Peoles Met-Mex Arrangements A series of contracts between the Company and Met-Mex for the sale of the primary products from the Groups mines, silverand gold-rich lead and zinc concentrates Milling or milled ore A general term used to describe the process in which the ore is crushed and ground and subjected to physical or chemical treatment to extract the valuable metals to a concentrate or nished product Mineralisation Any mass of host rock in which minerals of potential commercial value occur Minera Juanicipio S. A. fide C. V. A joint venture company with MAG Silver Corporation in which Fresnillo plc has a 56% interest Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. fide C. V. A joint venture company with Newmont Mining Corporation in which Fresnillo plc has a 56% interest 142 GLOSSARY MXN Mexican peso Nominations Committee The nominations committee of the Board Non-executive Directors The non-executive Directors of the Company Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares of $0.50 each in the Company Ore Material that contains one or more minerals, at least one of which has commercial value and which can be recovered at a profit Ore body A continuous well-dened mass of material of sufficient mineral content to make extraction economically feasible Ore grade The classication or value of ore OTC Over the counter Ounce Troy ounce Payable Silver The amount of silver in ounces contained in concentrates from Peoles Sabinas mine Peoles Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide C. V. Peoles Group Peoles and its subsidiary undertakings Pre-IPO Reorganisation A reorganisation conducted by Peoles in preparation for the Global Offer which completed on 18 April 2008, whereby the companies comprising the precious metals mining business of Peoles were reorganised under the Company Primary silver producer A company generating over 50% of its revenue from silver production PROFEPA The Mexican Federal Environmental Protection Agency Procuraduria Federal fide Proteccin al Ambiente Prospect A mineral deposit with insufficient data available on the mineralisation to determine if it is economically recoverable, but warranting further investigation Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee of the Board Relationship Agreement The relationship agreement between Peoles and the Company dated 8 May 2008 Reserves The economically mineable portions of mineral resources, which are sub-divided into two categories of increasing confidence: probable reserves relate to indicated mineral resources: and proven reserves relate to measured mineral resources Resources A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction: mineral resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories SEMARNAT Federal Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Secretara fide Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales Servicios Peoles Servicios Industriales Peoles S. A. fide C. V. 2008 ANNUAL REPORT 143 FRESNILLO PLC Shaft An opening cut downwards from the surface for transporting personnel, equipment, supplies, ore and waste Shotcrete Concrete or mortar conveyed through a hose and pneumatically projected at high velocity onto any type or shape of surface, including vertical or overhead areas: shotcrete undergoes placement and compaction at the same time due to the force with which it is projected from the nozzle Silver equivalent ounces Groups total gross sales before hedging losses divided by the average silver price for the period Silverstream Arrangements A series of the 12 agreements between Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. and Peoles pursuant to which the Fresnillo Group has the right to receive all proceeds for the Payable Silver SIPSA Servicios Industriales Peoles.
S. A. fide C. V. SIPSA Agreement The transitional services agreement between SIPSA and the Company dated 8 May 2008 for the provision of administrative and non-administrative services to the Fresnillo Group Smelting A high temperature pyrometallurgical operation conducted in a furnace, in which the valuable metal is collected to a molten matte or dor phase and separated from the gangue components that accumulate in a less dense molten slag phase SSSMARC The Fresnillo Group Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations System Sistema fide Salud, Seguridad, Medio Ambiente y Relaciones con la Comunidad Sterling Deferred Shares Deferred shares of 1.00 each in the share capital of the Company Stope Underground void created by mining Strike Direction of line formed by the intersection of strata surfaces with the horizontal plane, always perpendicular to the dip direction Tailings dam A dammed reservoir to which the slurry is transported, where the solids settle and the supernatant liquid may be withdrawn TEP Termoelctrica Peoles S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Tonne Metric tonne 1,000 kilograms tpd Tonnes per day tpy Tonnes per year Treatment charges Fees payable by mines to smelters for processing concentrates Turnbull Guidance Guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in 1999 concerning the implementation of the requirements of the Combined Code concerning internal control UK United kingdom pounds sterling UKLA The United Kingdom Listing Authority US$ United States dollar 144 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL CALENDAR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
These forPreliminary Statement: 23 February 2009 ward-looking statements can be identied by the use of First Interim Management Statement: 15 April 2009 forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, Annual General Meeting: 27 May 2009 estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, inInterim Statement: 17 August 2009 tends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negaSecond Interim Management Statement: 14 October 2009 tive or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking statements include all DIVIDEND PAYMENT SCHEDULE matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include, but are 2008 Final Dividend Record Date: 8 May 2009 not limited to, statements regarding the Groups intentions, 2008 Final Dividend Payment Date: 29 May 2009 beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other 2009 Interim Dividend Record Date: 28 August 2009 things, the Groups results of operations, financial position, 2009 Interim Dividend Payment Date: 18 September 2009 liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future Registrar Sponsor and events and circumstances.
Computershare Investor Services PLC Corporate Broker P. O.
Box 82 JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future The Pavilions 20 Moorgate performance and the actual results of the Groups operaBridgwater Road London EC2R 6DA tions, financial position and liquidity, and the development Bristol BS99 7NH United Kingdom of the markets and the industry in which the Group opUnited Kingdom erates, may differ materially from those described in, or Auditor suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in Registered office Ernst & Young LLP this document.
In addition, even if the results of operations, 28 Grosvenor Street 1 More London Place financial position and liquidity, and the development of the London W1K 4QR London SE1 2AF markets and the industry in which the Group operates are United Kingdom United Kingdom consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this document, those results or developments may not be Corporate headquarters Solicitor indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
222 Linklaters LLP A number of factors could cause results and developments Col. Polanco One Silk Street to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the 11540 Mexico, D. F. London EC2Y 8HQ forward-looking statements including, without limitation, Mexico United Kingdom general economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency uctuations including the US dollar and Mexican WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS - BOILER ROOM SCAMS peso exchange rates, the Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, including its ability to Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK into resources or reserves, changes in its business strategy, shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ investors is around 20,000. materially from actual results.
Any forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing document, reect the Groups current view with respect for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount to future events and are subject to risks relating to fuor offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: ture events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Groups operations, results of operations, o Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation growth strategy and liquidity.
Investors should specically consider the factors identied in this document which o Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting could cause actual results to differ before making an inwww.
Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules o Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting and the Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicwww.
uk itly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking o If the calls persist, hang up.
statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations or to reect events or If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Comcircumstances after the date of this document.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
For further information, please visit our website: www.
com or contact: Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
Fresnillo plc Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
uk Octavio Alvidrez, Head of Investor Relations Design and Photography: K hjVa Printing: Earthcolor, Houston Fresnillo plc 28 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QR United Kingdom www.
