34 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of THE GAME GROUP PLC will be held on 3 July 2008 at 10.00 a. m. at Unity House, Telford Road, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG21 6YJ.
The full AGM notice detailing the ordinary and special business to be considered is contained in a separate document.
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, inter alia, to: s renew the Directors general authority to allot the Companys ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,747,802.
This authority shall expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009 or the date falling 15 months from the passing of this resolution.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority, which represents 33.33 per cent of the present issued share capital: s approve a limited disapplication of pre-emption rights on allotments for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 862,170: representing 5 per cent of the present issued share capital.
Following the introduction of The Companies Acquisitions of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, companies are now able to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than cancelling them.
The Company may consider holding any of its own shares which it purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by the relevant resolution as treasury shares.
This would allow the Company to sell shares out of treasury, providing the Company with the ability to replenish its distributable reserves.
No dividends will be paid on any shares held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to such shares.
It will also be possible for the Company to transfer shares out of treasury pursuant to an employee share scheme.
If any shares are so used then the Company will count them towards the limits in such employees share schemes on the number of new shares which may be issued under them.
As at 29 April 2008, the Company held no shares in treasury.
s authorise the Directors to make purchases of the Companys ordinary shares in the market when the Directors consider that it would be in the best interests of the Company to do so, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,724,340, representing 10 per cent of the present issued share capital.
The resolution sets out the maximum and minimum price at which ordinary shares may be purchased.
Purchases would only be made if the effect would be expected to improve earnings per share and the Directors consider that it would be in the best interests of the Company to do so.
As at 29 April 2008, there are outstanding options in respect of 3,317,028 ordinary shares pursuant to employees share schemes, which represent 0.96 per cent of the issued share capital.
If the authority to purchase ordinary shares were used in full, the options would represent 1.07 per cent of the issued share capital.
As at 29 April 2008, there were 2,844,094 ordinary shares held in trust to cover awards under the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan.
The consideration paid for these shares was 4,841,000 and these shares represent 0.8 per cent of the issued share capital.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the Groups assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
