36 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Treasury risk management Group treasury matters are governed by policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors.
The treasury group monitors and reviews treasury matters on a regular basis.
A written summary of major treasury activity is presented to each Board meeting.
The Groups treasury policies are set out in the Statement of Accounting Policies.
Disclosure of information to auditors So far as each Director at the date of approval of this Report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Directors indemnification provisions The Directors have the benefit of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of sections 309A to 309C of the Companies Act 1985 pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy of the Articles of Association is available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
The indemnity provisions in the Articles of Association were amended at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 6 July 2006 to take advantage of changes in legislation allowing companies to grant wider indemnities than previously permitted.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Vivienne Hemming ACIS Company Secretary Unity House Telford Road Basingstoke RG21 6YJ 29 April 2008 02 DIRECTORS & GOVERNANCE 37 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Corporate governance There is a commitment to high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
The Board confirms that the Company and the Group have complied during the year ended 31 January 2008 with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2003, as revised in June 2006 the Combined Code.
The Board notes that the Chairman has been a Director for more than nine years but considers that Peter Lewis makes a significant contribution to the Company and that his period of ofce does not impair his independence.
In accordance with Code provision A.
7.2, Peter Lewis will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and the statements set out below describe how the principles identied in the Combined Code are applied by the Group.
Directors The Board consists of a Non Executive Chairman, Peter Lewis, three other Non Executive Directors and two Executive Directors, of which Lisa Morgan is Group Chief Executive, and David Thomas is Group Finance Director and Deputy Chief Executive.
All of the Non Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Biographies of Board members appear on page 30.
These indicate the seniority and range of business experience, which are essential to manage effectively a business of the size and complexity of the Group.
The full Board meets at least six times each year and more frequently where business needs require.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including inter alia statutory matters: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and terminations of Directors, ofcers and auditors: appointments of committees and setting of terms of reference: review and approval of Group performance against budgets: approving risk management strategy and material contracts: and determining of authority levels within which management is required to operate.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The minutes of all meetings of the Board and each committee are taken by the Company Secretary who ensures that any unresolved concerns of the Directors are recorded in the minutes.
Appropriate Directors and Ofcers insurance cover is arranged and maintained via the Companys insurance broker, Heath Lambert Group, and its terms are reviewed annually.
When new members are appointed to the Board, they are provided with advice from the Company Secretary in respect of their role and duties as a public company director.
Christopher Bell is the Senior Non Executive Director.
Concerns relating to the executive management of the Company or the performance of the other Non Executive Directors may be raised with the Senior Non Executive Director.
The Senior Non Executive Director is also available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Non Executive Director also makes himself available to listen to the concerns of employees.
38 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED To enable the Board to function effectively and Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specic matters.
Appointments to the Board The Board ensures that plans are in place for the orderly succession of appointments to the Board and to senior management: taking into account the need to maintain an appropriate balance of skills.
Appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non Executive Directors are considered by the Nomination Committee.
The recommendations of the Nomination Committee are ultimately made to the full Board, which considers them before any appointment is made.
The Remuneration Committee considers any remuneration package before it is offered to a potential appointee.
The members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are set out on page 39.
Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors required to retire are those in ofce longest since their previous re-election, and each Director retires at least once every three years.
Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of the Companys remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report appearing on pages 42 to 49.
The members of the Remuneration Committee and the principal terms of reference of the Committee appear on page 39.
Meetings with Non Executive Directors The Chairman holds meetings as required with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
Board performance evaluation In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code, during the year the Board undertook a formal internal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
This review was led by the Senior Non Executive Director and included an evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
A further review will be conducted during the current financial year.
Individual attendance by Directors at meetings of the Board and of other committees Meetings held from 24 April 2007 to 29 April 2008 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number Number of Number Director meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended Peter Lewis 9 9 1 1 Lisa Morgan 9 9 David Thomas 9 9 Christopher Bell 99334411 Jean-Paul Giraud 99334411 Ishbel Macpherson 99334411 02 DIRECTORS & GOVERNANCE 39 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Ishbel Macpherson as Chairman, together with Christopher Bell and Jean-Paul Giraud.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on request and are published on the Companys website.
The Audit Committees main objectives are, inter alia, to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and any other formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: review significant financial reporting judgements contained in such statements or announcements, before submission to, and approval by, the Board, and before clearance by the external auditors: review the Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and review the arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee also reviews any matters raised by the auditors.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director are invited to attend part of each meeting of this Committee, as are the auditors.
The auditors have unrestricted access to the members of the Audit Committee, and the Committee ensures that meetings are used as an open avenue of communication between the external auditors and the Board.
Following a recommendation from the Audit Committee, the Board has adopted a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, with the objective of ensuring that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
This includes, inter alia, assessing all relationships with the audit rm, including their partners and staff: assessing the nature and level of fees for non-audit services in relation to the audit fee: obtaining conrmation of independence from the auditors: and ensuring the appropriateness of the rm as providers for non-audit services.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review is disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements.
The non-audit fees were principally paid in respect of tax compliance services and are considered by the Audit Committee not to affect the auditors independence or objectivity.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Jean-Paul Giraud as Chairman, together with Christopher Bell and Ishbel Macpherson.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is covered further in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 49.
Copies of Executive Directors service contracts and the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys ofce during normal business hours.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on request and are also published on the Companys website.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Peter Lewis as Chairman, together with Christopher Bell, Jean-Paul Giraud and Ishbel Macpherson.
It meets as required and makes recommendations to the Board on all Board and Committee appointments, including the selection of Non Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on request and are also published on the Companys website.
40 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Audit and internal control The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in connection with the Annual Report and Accounts are explained on pages 34 and 50 respectively and the statement of the Directors on going concern appears on page 41.
Following the publication of guidance for Directors, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place during the year ended 31 January 2008 and up to the date of approval of the accompanying Report and Accounts by the Board.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
The Board of Directors acknowledges its responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness over financial, operating and risk management controls.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year by reference to budgets, management accounts, cashow projections and reports from the internal and external auditors, and covers financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The risks facing the Group in each country of operation have been identied and the appropriateness of the associated direct controls and indirect controls have been assessed.
This risk matrix is reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to ensure that internal controls are effective are commensurate with a group of this size, a key control procedure being the day-to-day supervision of the business by the Directors.
Other internal control procedures and reviews for effectiveness by the Board include the following: s preparation, maintenance and review of a Group risk register: s review of financial, operational and compliance reports from management: and s review of any significant issues arising from the internal and external audits The Group has an internal audit function which focuses primarily on the control of cash and stock losses.
The Audit Committee consider the focus of the function to be appropriate for the business and operations of the Group.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope and cost-effectiveness of the external audit under review.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditors is also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears on page 68.
The non-audit fees were principally paid in respect of tax compliance services and are considered by the Committee not to affect the auditors independence or objectivity.
02 DIRECTORS & GOVERNANCE 41 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Communication with shareholders The Company attaches importance to the effectiveness of its communications with shareholders.
It publishes regular trading statements as well as a full Annual Report.
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and the financial community.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and interim results, regular meetings with major shareholders, participation in stockbrokers seminars and site visits.
The Group holds a variety of investor and analyst meetings in order to improve the financial communitys understanding of the Group and to introduce investors to a broader range of management.
All shareholders can gain access to these and other presentations, as well as to the Annual Report and other information about the Group, on the Groups website at www.
Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the Company highlights key business developments during the year and at which shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer any questions from shareholders on the work of their committees.
The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
Amendments proposed to be made to the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM would permit the Company to take advantage of new provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 relating to website and electronic communications.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes to the resolutions contained in the Notice of AGM.
Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with shareholders rests with the executive management team led by the Chief Executive.
However, the Board is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share price performance, the composition of the shareholder register and City expectations.
Independent research is commissioned annually into institutional shareholder perceptions of the Group.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Non Executive Directors make themselves available to meet with shareholders as required.
Going concern The Directors have reviewed the financial position of the Group and of the Company and have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
42 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Statement of compliance As well as complying with the provisions of the Combined Code as disclosed in the Corporate Governance Statement and with Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration as described below.
The Board has overall responsibility for Directors remuneration, but has delegated this responsibility to the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for all aspects of remuneration for the Executive Directors and for determining the policy of the remuneration of the Directors of the principal operating subsidiaries.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee, excluding the Chairman.
Remuneration policy The Committees policy, for current and future years, is to remunerate the Groups Chairman, Executive Directors and management fairly in such a manner as to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of suitably qualied personnel.
The measurement of their performance and the determination of the annual remuneration package of the Executive Directors are undertaken by the Remuneration Committee who utilise the services of external professional advisers to assist them in this area, and also take into account the annual remuneration packages of executives within the Companys peer group.
The main elements of the remuneration package are basic salary, benets, performance-related bonus, pension contributions and share-based long-term incentives.
Part of this policy is to ensure that a significant proportion of overall remuneration is performance related.
The Remuneration Committee receives advice from a variety of sources on issues where it considers it appropriate.
During the year ended 31 January 2008, the Committee sought external advice from Mike Langley, an independent remuneration consultant.
Mike Langley has not provided any other services during the year.
The Committee may also call on specialist advice on areas such as pensions.
In addition, Lisa Morgan, David Thomas and the Company Secretary have presented to the Committee on specic issues.
Base salaries The Remuneration Committee aims to pay competitive salaries having regard to market practice, internal relativities, performance and affordability.
Salary increases of 2 per cent have been awarded to the Executive Directors from 1 February 2008.
The remuneration of the Non Executive Directors is determined by the Board.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
Each element of remuneration payable to Executive Directors is discussed in more detail below.
Basic salary and benets Basic salaries for all Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee.
In addition to basic salary, each Executive Director is entitled to the following main benets: s 25 days holiday per annum: s fully expensed company car or cash equivalent: s critical illness cover and permanent health insurance: 02 DIRECTORS & GOVERNANCE 43 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 s health cover for themselves, their spouse and minor children: and s life assurance cover equal to four times basic salary.
Subject to approval by the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to accept outside appointments, but no such appointments have yet been authorised.
Salaries for senior management below main board level are benchmarked by means of appropriate market comparisons.
Performance-related bonus As referred to above, part of the Remuneration Committees policy on remuneration is to ensure that a significant proportion of overall remuneration is performance-related.
For the year ended 31 January 2008, the executive bonus scheme had the following principal features: s the potential bonus opportunity for Executive Directors will be restricted to 125 per cent of base salary: s 90 per cent of the bonus opportunity was determined by reference to stretching profit targets, with the other 10 per cent being determined by reference to clear objectives set for each Executive Director: and s to align further the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders, only the first half of the maximum bonus potential will be paid in cash i. e. a maximum of 62.5 per cent with any excess to be deferred into contingent shares for three years.
During this period, the executive will not be entitled to receive dividends on those shares and they will be subject to forfeiture if the executive voluntarily resigns or is dismissed.
The bonus opportunity for subsidiary company Directors does not exceed that of the Executive Directors and may be subject to similar deferral arrangements.
Bonus entitlements in respect of the year ended 31 January 2008 were as follows: Total Cash Deferred Total bonus payment shares bonus 2007 Lisa Morgan 271,875 271,875 543,750 382,997 David Thomas 240,625 240,625 481,250 341,267 Having taken appropriate advice from an independent consultant and consulted with the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee have changed the allocation of the bonus between profit targets and specified personal objectives.
This change is, intended to provide a more equitable balance between the reward for achieving financial targets and that for key personal objectives.
With effect from 1 February 2008, therefore, the principal features will be as follows: s 64 per cent of the bonus opportunity will continue to be determined by reference to stretching profit targets, with the other 36 per cent being determined by reference to clear objectives set for each Executive Director: and s to align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders, only the first half of the maximum bonus potential will be paid in cash i. e. a maximum of 62.5 per cent with any excess to be deferred into contingent shares for three years.
44 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors pension policy The Executive Directors are entitled to receive company contributions to their dened contribution pension schemes at a prescribed percentage rate of basic salary, which in 2008 is 20 per cent of basic salary.
Long-term incentives The Committee believes that share ownership by Executive Directors strengthens the link between their personal interests and those of shareholders.
In 2004 a comprehensive review of incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors was undertaken, with New Bridge Street Consultants LLP acting as independent advisers.
Thereafter, the Committee decided to introduce a Performance Share Plan to replace the 1998 Executive Share Option Scheme the 1998 scheme.
Following the introduction of the Performance Share Plan, it is intended that no further grants of options to Executive Directors will be made under the 1998 scheme.
The following disclosures up to and including page 47 on Directors remuneration have been audited, as required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Performance Share Plan Under the Plan, eligible employees may receive a conditional award of shares, which will normally be released after three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of challenging performance conditions, based on earnings per share.
This measurement was chosen as representing the most appropriate basis, as earnings per share growth should lead to an improvement in share price for the benefit of all shareholders.
After the year end on 25 February 2008, David Thomas exercised awards over 435,643 shares that were granted on 7 July 2004, and then sold 399,321 shares for a gain of 896,995, when the market price of the Companys shares was 224.63p.
The Board of Directors granted an extension on the life of the award beyond the 7 January 2008 expiry date as the Company was then in a close period owing to the Competition Commissions investigation into the acquisition of Gamestation.
02 DIRECTORS & GOVERNANCE 45 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 The exercise price for the above awards is 1 for the entire amount of the ordinary shares to which an award relates.
The awards will normally vest on the third anniversary after the grant subject to continued employment and the meeting of an earnings per share performance condition.
The targets range from EPS growth at the rate of RPI 15 per cent over a xed three-year period at which 25 per cent of any award will vest increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for EPS growth of at least RPI 30 per cent.
No consideration was paid for the grant of any of the above awards.
The awards are not subject to retesting and expire six months after the earliest exercise date.
Any ordinary shares required to full entitlements under the Performance Share Plan Scheme are provided by the Employee benefit Trust.
As at 31 January 2008, the Employee benefit Trust held 2,844,094 ordinary shares 2007: 1,615,000 ordinary shares.
No Directors exercised any share options during the year.
After the year end, Lisa Morgan and David Thomas exercised options over 865,451 and 640,625 ordinary shares respectively on 25 February 2008 and then sold the shares for a gain of 1,306,520 and 1,029,036 respectively, when the market price of the Companys shares was 224.63p.
As at 5 April 2008, there are outstanding options under the 1998 Scheme to subscribe for 3,317,028 ordinary shares pursuant to employees share schemes, which represent 0.96 per cent of the issued share capital.
If the authority to purchase ordinary shares were used in full, the options would represent 1.07 per cent of the issued share capital.
