Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of GKN plc We have audited the Company financial statements of GKN plc for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the balance sheet and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the related notes.
These Company financial statements have been on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is to the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial statements described as having been audited.
and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of GKN made by the Directors in the preparation of the Company financial plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 on page 73. statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the Company financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Company are set out in the Directors responsibility statement on page 72. financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements and the by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International in the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the remuneration report to be audited.
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 Opinion and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or In our opinion: assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial 2008: statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and given in the Directors report is consistent with the Company financial the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that Company financial statements.
specific information presented in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement and the Business review that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other  LLP transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham We read other information contained in the annual report and consider 25 February 2009 whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Business review, the corporate governance statement and the other information listed on the contents page of the annual report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
