206 GSK Annual Report 2008 Shareholder information Taxation information for shareholders This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices US shareholders at the date of this report.
It is intended only as a general guide.
The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA federal Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the income tax considerations that may be relevant to a US holder of tax consequences of the purchase and ownership of their shares shares or ADR.
This summary only applies to a shareholder that or ADR, and the consequences under state and local tax laws in holds shares or ADR as capital assets, is a citizen or resident of the USA and the implications of the current UK US Income the USA or a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject Tax convention.
to United States federal income taxation on a net income basis US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the in respect of the shares or ADR, and is not resident in the UK for underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA UK double UK tax purposes and does not hold shares for the purposes of a taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax trade, profession or vocation that is carried on in the UK through a Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention branch or agency.
and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as Taxation of dividends amended the Code.
The gross amount of dividends received without reduction for any UK withholding tax is treated as foreign source dividend income UK shareholders for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend received Taxation of dividends deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADR are From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax on Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the dividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK resident US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on individual shareholders.
Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to certain shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate Taxation of capital gains of 15% in respect of qualified dividends received before 2011.
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal Shareholders are advised to consult their own Tax Advisers to of shares or ADR.
For disposals made prior to 6th April 2008, they confirm their eligibility.
may also be entitled to indexation relief and taper relief on such sales.
Indexation relief is calculated on the market value of shares Taxation of capital gains at 31st March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent purchases Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, from the date of such purchase.
Indexation relief for individual but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998.
A capital gain is taxed at other disposal of shares or ADR.
the marginal tax rate of the individual.
For disposals after 5th April Estate and gift taxes 2008 no indexation or taper relief will be available and a capital Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not gain will be taxed at a flat rate of 18% rather than the marginal generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
tax rate of the individual.
Stamp duty Inheritance tax UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or transfer of shares or ADR.
Tax may be charged on the amount by depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price if issued, the amount which the value of the shareholders estate is reduced as a result of any consideration provided if transferred on sale, or their value of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full if transferred for no consideration.
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR.
No UK Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided tax and US estate or gift tax.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention that the instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times would generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited outside the UK.
Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would against tax payable in the UK.
be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
Stamp duty Any sale of the underlying shares would result in liability to UK UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate of 0.5% of the purchase price.
