qxp:Layout 3 12 9 08 13:33 Page 18 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility We believe that a strong and growing public transport network is vital to the sustainable development of the UK.
Keith Ludeman, Group Chief Executive As one of the UKs leading providers of transport services Highlights corporate responsibility is central to our business.
We believe that a strong and growing public transport Greenest network is vital to the sustainable development of the UK.
Sustained investment means that Go-Ahead has the youngest Investment in public transport strengthens the economy, and greenest bus eet of the major UK operators.
creates jobs, reduces trafc congestion and air pollution, and helps tackle social exclusion.
Improved efficiency Across our bus operations we have made significant We recognise that adopting a responsible approach directly investments in driver monitoring technology and training contributes to the success of our business.
Trials have suggested this should improve fuel on issues such as safety, service punctuality and ease of access efficiency by around 5%.
are factors that help us grow patronage.
At the same time, we must demonstrate our commitment to minimising our environmental impacts through a combination of innovation Energy saving and investment.
Southern and Southeastern achieved a significant engineering feat by introducing regenerative braking on the third rail system.
Industry leadership This saves energy by capturing electricity and returning it to the Corporate Responsibility has always been at the heart of rail network.
We were the first in our sector to recognise the importance of being open about our performance and led the 17% site energy reduction way by publishing our environmental data.
This year we will be We achieved a 17% reduction in site energy this full year and the first in our industry to publish an Economic Impact Report, have embarked on a significant project with the Carbon Trust measuring the significant contribution we make to the UK to further reduce our site energy.
In addition, from November economy and the communities we service.
2008 around 70% of our site electricity will be generated from renewable sources including hydro-power, wind-power and Reducing our energy consumption has always been important biomass fuels.
to Go-Ahead and in 2005 we were proud to be the first national transport operator to gain accreditation under the Gold award Energy efficiency Scheme EEAS, the UKs leading independent Go-Ahead scored 90.5% in Business in the Communitys emission reduction award scheme.
BITC 2008 Corporate Responsibility index the highest rating This year, our train companies led the way by introducing amongst comparable participating public transport operators.
regenerative braking technology on the third rail system.
In addition we received an impressive100% for the Emissions This achieves energy savings by capturing electricity generated to Air and Climate Change categories.
though train braking and returning it to the rail network.
Community commitment A decade-long investment programme means we have the We provided free transport themed teaching materials to most modern and environmentally friendly bus eet among over 900 teachers at schools nationwide.
This initiative was the major UK operators.
Tackling climate change Climate change is the most pressing issue facing our generation.
First in sector Buses and trains produce signicantly less emissions per We will be the first in our sector to publish an Economic passenger journey than the equivalent journey by private car.
Impact Report which measures the significant contribution We recognise that as a public transport operator we have Go-Ahead makes to the towns and cities we operate in.
a responsibility to operate our services in a sustainable and The third rail or conductor rail is the system by which some trains draw their power.
The system is mainly found in the South of England.
TAS Partnership August 2008 Analysis excludes regulated London operations.
Please see our Environmental & Social Report 2008 for further details.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8
