qxp:Layout 3 15 9 08 17:03 Page 19 environmentally responsible manner, while at the same time ensuring we deliver high quality services that provide 87% 87% an attractive alternative to car travel.
of bus eet tted of bus eet has low Being a responsible operator is also important to the public.
with CCTV oor access Increasingly we are seeing signs that they are prepared to excludes Meteors bus operations excludes Meteors bus operations leave their cars for greener public transport alternatives.
Our key responsibilities c. 80% c. 90% Through engagement with stakeholders we have identied of our rail passengers are of our trains arrived on time our key responsibilities as: Public performance measure PPM : satisfied with their service Southern 90.1%:, Southeastern 91.1%: Southern 81%, Southeastern 79%, London Midland 88.6% London Midland 81% Reducing our carbon footprint You will see in our highlights the significant steps we have made to minimise the environmental impacts of our bus and rail operations through investment in driver training and monitoring technology and regenerative braking.
We have reduced our site energy by an impressive 17% and are committed to continue this further.
In addition, from November 2008, 70% of our site electricity will be generated from renewable sources.
Safety & security Our priority is to ensure the safety and security of our passengers, employees and the general public.
This is a Board issue and we engage a specialist consultancy to measure, review and audit performance, reporting to the main Board.
Reliability, convenience, punctuality Oxford Bus Company has the greenest eet in the UK.
Our responsibility is to run our services to timetable and ensure that passengers have a positive journey experience.
The local approach Accessibility for all We believe passionately in empowerment: letting local management Our responsibility is to help as many people as possible to make local decisions based on local needs.
When our companies invest in new buses Our companies form an integral part of the communities in which they and trains, we make sure that the design takes into account operate and we continue to be the only company in our sector that produces ease of access for everyone.
a separate environmental and social report for each of our operating businesses.
Affordability Our responsibility is to help as many people as possible to use our services.
Our companies run a range of schemes that offer reduced rate services for particular groups older people, off-peak travellers and young people.
Community relationships Understanding and support from stakeholders is a basic requirement for running and expanding our services.
We aim to be active participants in local communities and this is supported by the Groups devolved structure.
Role as an employer Our responsibility is to provide a positive work environment conducive to the recruitment and retention of staff.
We know that through retaining good people, we can build our reputation for good customer service among passengers and customers.
More information For more information and in-depth analysis of our corporate responsibility performance please visit the Our Responsibility section of our website: Campaign by Southern to promote We are proud to be afliated www.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1
