qxp:Layout 3 12 9 08 13:11 Page 21 Senior Management Alex Carter Martin Dean Managing Director, Go South Coast Managing Director, Bus Development Alex has been Managing Director since 2003.
He leads and acts He controls eight businesses within Go South as a focus for all bus development and acquisition Coast embracing bus, coach and engineering.
Previously, Martin held senior Alex joined the bus industry in 1981 in its management roles in rail and bus with FirstGroup nationalised form and has held a number and National Express.
He began his career with of senior roles post-privatisation.
Alan Eatwell Roger French Managing Director, Metrobus Managing Director, Brighton & Hove Alan has been Managing Director since 2001 and was Roger has been Managing Director of Brighton previously the Group s Engineering Director.
Alan has & Hove since the company was purchased by almost 40 years experience in the bus industry and Go-Ahead in 1993.
He joined Brighton & Hove successfully participated in the management buy-out in 1982 and as general manager he was part of of Brighton & Hove.
Roger received an OBE in 2005 for his services to public transport.
Peter Huntley Philip Kirk Managing Director, Go North East Managing Director, Oxford Bus Company Peter has been Managing Director since 2006.
Philip has been Managing Director since 2001, He has brought a wide range of innovations and having joined the company in 1995 shortly after developments to the north east business.
Peter has it was acquired by Go-Ahead.
He has 30 years over 30 years experience in the bus industry including experience of managerial and technical positions periods working with local and national Government in bus companies, and is chair of the Oxford City on policy development.
JohnTrayner Steve Banaghan Managing Director, Go-Ahead London Managing Director, London Midland John has been Managing Director since 2006.
He Steve has been Managing Director since 2007. joined the Group in 2002 as Operations Director Previously, he was Managing Director of Central of London Central General having previously held Trains at National Express.
Steve has held a number senior positions at Arriva London.
He has been in of senior roles in UK train operating companies and the transport industry for 30 years.
has almost 30 years of experience in rail.
Chris Burchell Tom Smith Managing Director, Rail Development Managing Director, Southern Chris has been Managing Director of Southern since Tom has been Managing Director since 2001.
He leads the rail division s business development April 2006, having previously been Operations Director for two years.
He has also worked atThamesTrains, and franchise bidding activity.
PreviouslyTom was Managing Director of the company that nanced and the Foreign & Commonwealth Ofce and Railtrack, accumulating over 10 years of railway experience.
He spent 11 years in the diplomatic service after graduating from Oxford.
Charles Horton StephenTurner Managing Director, Southeastern Managing Director, Meteor Charles has been Managing Director since April 2006, Stephen has been Managing Director since 1993 after three years in the same role at Southern.
He when the company was founded and was part of a has gained extensive management experience in a management buy-out in 1994 along with three other career spanning 22 years on National Rail and private shareholders.
Previously, he spent 20 years in London Underground.
the property industry, involved in both commercial property letting and management.
PatrickVerwer RobWilliams Managing Director, Aviance UK Managing Director, Plane Handling Patrick joined as Managing Director in December 2007.
Rob has been Managing Director since 2007.
Previously, he was director of cargo for Aviance Previously, he spent more than 10 years with Netherlands UK, working in the aviation division of Go-Ahead Railways in various executive roles.
Patrick came to for a total of seven years.
His career to date has the UK in 2002 to head up the Serco NedRailways spanned 30 years in both the aviation and shipping Merseyrail concession in Liverpool.
He started his industry, holding numerous senior positions within working career as a senior police officer in Rotterdam.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
