Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the management of the Group, developing and monitoring Companys shareholders for maintaining good practices Group strategy and safety standards, setting plans for in corporate governance.
The purpose of this report is to the operating companies within the Group, monitoring describe how the Company applies the principles of performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining major corporate governance and the Combined Code published investment possibilities, formulating policy on key issues by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2006. and reporting to shareholders.
Compliance Statement Responsibility for the operation of Group companies, The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions implementation of Group strategy and achievement of set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code published in objectives is delegated to executive management.
The July 2006 throughout the year with the following exceptions: Executive Directors meet regularly with the Directors, senior managers and staff in the Groups operating companies.
2.1 & C. 3.1 Given the size of the Board, the Audit and The Board maintains a Group Board procedures manual Remuneration Committees consist of the prepared in response to the Combined Code.
It includes Non-Executive Chairman and the two formal procedures for the working of the Board and its Non-Executive Directors, and not three Committees, delegated authorities, the timely provision of Non-Executive Directors as required by the appropriate information, and the duties and responsibilities Code provisions.
The Board believes that of Directors, including standards of conduct and compliance.
these arrangements remain appropriate, with the The Group Company Secretary, whose appointment Companys Chairman being best placed and removal is a matter for the Board, is responsible to to be the Chairman of these Committees.
the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied However, it is intended that Andrew Allner, whose with and that the Board is regularly updated on matters of appointment as Non-Executive Director will be corporate governance, legislative changes and regulatory effective from 24 October 2008, will replace the regimes affecting the Group.
All Directors have access to Companys Chairman as Chairman of the Audit the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and Committee.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the may also take independent professional advice, at the Groups Non-Executive Directors are all considered to be expense, for the proper discharge of their duties as Directors.
robustly independent by the Board and their independence is subject to ongoing monitoring During the year the Board met nine times, with one of the by the Board at least annually.
meetings including a review of the Groups strategy.
All members of the Board attended each meeting.
3.3 It remains the Boards opinion that its size does not justify the appointment of a formally Performance evaluation recognised Senior Independent Director.
The Board has adopted a procedure for the evaluation of Furthermore, both of the independent the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Non-Executive Directors are well known Directors, including the Chairman, carried out by an external to investors and financial professionals in the consultant.
During the year, the review consisted of an UK.
Shareholders should approach either of interview and a questionnaire completed by each of the them in the event that their contacts with Directors in confidence and analysed by the external the Chairman and Executive Directors are consultant.
The findings were presented and discussed at a deemed unsatisfactory.
meeting of the Board where no significant issues were raised.
The Board confirms that it has established the procedures Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive necessary to comply with the Turnbull Report: Internal The offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive are held Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Chairman of the Company is Sir Patrick Brown and the Chief Executive is Keith Ludeman.
There is a clear The Board division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Throughout the year the Board comprised two Executive Executive, with the division of key responsibilities shown below: Directors, the Non-Executive Chairman and two NonExecutive Directors, each of whom the Board considers to Chairman be independent in accordance with the criteria for determining leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all independence as suggested by the Combined Code.
The aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account Directors biographies appear on page 20.
This composition the issues relevant to the Group and the concerns of all was maintained throughout the whole period of review.
The Board members: Board meets at least every two months, with the Group ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Company Secretary in attendance, and has a formal schedule Board and Committees: of matters reserved to it for decision.
The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be conducted at each facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors: meeting well in advance and individual Board members have encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
direct access to the Executive Directors should they wish to receive additional information on any of the items for discussion.
Key senior managers and advisers attend Board meetings as required to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the current issues facing the business.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 22 Chief Executive and half year profit figures and statements and monitored running the day to day business of the Group, within the controls in force to ensure the integrity of the financial the authorities delegated by the Board: information reported to the shareholders.
The Committee also considered the risk management processes and controls.
leading the development of the Groups strategy, including identifying and assessing opportunities: The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and, during the year, considered their ensuring the execution of policies and strategy as set by remuneration both for audit and non-audit work.
In order the Board as a whole: to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the provision ensuring effective communication with shareholders of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax and investors: services if the fees exceed a level set by the Audit Committee is subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
The Audit day to day leadership of the executive and senior Committee has specified that the external audit firm may management team: not provide certain categories of non-audit services to ensuring that the Chairman is kept updated in a timely the Group.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the manner of issues, events and developments.
cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee Appointment and re-election of Directors has unrestricted access to the auditors.
Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for a specified term, however, all Directors are subject to re-election by During the year the Committee held five meetings and shareholders following appointment and subsequently at all members of the Committee attended each meeting.
intervals of not more than three years.
Remuneration Committee Sir Patrick Brown joined the Board in 1999 as a Non-Executive The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown.
Director, becoming Non-Executive Chairman in 2002.
His The Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, industry-wide experience and long-standing contribution to with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company the Board are well recognised and the Boards performance Secretary in attendance.
The Group Chief Executive is evaluation procedures reaffirm his continued effectiveness absent from all meetings considering his own remuneration.
and contribution in his office as Chairman.
Sir Patrick Brown The Committee has the responsibility for determining has now served on the Board for more than nine years and the remuneration, contract terms and other benefits of therefore, in accordance with best practice, submits himself Executive Directors, including performance-related bonus for annual re-election.
The Board believe that he should be and share schemes.
Details of policy and Directors re-elected for a further year.
remuneration, including share options and contract terms, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on After nine years as a Non-Executive Director, Christopher pages 25 to 30.
Collins will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 23 October 2008.
Christopher During the year the Committee met five times and all Collins will be succeeded by Andrew Allner, whose members of the Committee attended each meeting.
appointment as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Nomination Committee the Audit Committee will be effective from 24 October 2008.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown Andrew Allner is a Chartered Accountant with significant and comprises all the Non-Executive Directors.
Meetings Executive and Non-Executive Director experience.
The Board are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive Directors.
believe that Andrew Allner is independent in character and The Nomination Committee meets as needed to deal with judgement, with both relevant and financial experience.
necessary assignments and is responsible for leading the Directors and officers liability insurance process of identifying candidates for Board appointment The Group maintained Directors and Officers liability and making recommendations to the Board in accordance insurance cover throughout the year as permitted by the with the needs of the Company and best practice in corporate Companys Articles of Association.
This cover was renewed governance from time to time.
During the year, in consultation with the Group Chief Committees of the Board Executive and an external search consultancy, the Committee The Board has established a number of Committees to deal met to discuss the appointment of a Non-Executive Director with specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The full terms of following Christopher Collins stated intention to retire from reference of all Committees are available on request from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting the Group Company Secretary or can be accessed by on 23 October 2008.
After interviewing a number of potential visiting the Companys website www.
candidates, the Committee unanimously proposed, and the Board accepted, that Andrew Allner be appointed as Audit Committee Non-Executive Director with effect from 24 October 2008.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown.
The Following his appointment, Andrew Allner will undertake an Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, with induction process which will include, but will not be limited to, the Group Company Secretary in attendance, and meets no meetings with senior management and relevant external less than four times annually.
Meetings are also attended, by advisors and a briefing on his responsibilities and obligations invitation, by the Executive Directors.
The agenda reflects the under law, regulation and corporate governance guidelines.
duties delegated to the Committee by its terms of reference.
During the year the Committee provided a forum for reporting During the year, the Nomination Committee held two by the Groups external and internal auditors, including health meetings.
This excluded interviews with potential candidates and safety auditors.
The Committee also received and for the position of Non-Executive Director.
All members of reviewed reports from management relating to the annual the Committee attended each meeting.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate governance continued Whistle blowing policy Internal controls A whistle blowing policy has been issued to all operating The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the companies to ensure a consistent approach across the Group.
Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its The arrangements allow employees to raise concerns effectiveness.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather confidentially and for the independent investigation of such than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups matters and the appropriate follow-up action which is overseen strategic objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not by the Audit Committee.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with shareholders The Board maintains a Group policies and procedures manual, The Group recognises the importance of regular which is designed to strengthen the Groups corporate communication with all of its shareholders.
The reporting governance and internal control processes and manage risk.
calendar is dominated by the publication of the interim and As part of the manual, and in accordance with the Turnbull annual results each year, when the Board provides shareholders guidance on internal controls, an ongoing process has been with a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups established for identifying, evaluating and managing the operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
significant risks faced by the Group.
The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of The Executive Directors meet with the Groups institutional approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
investors after announcement of the interim and annual results and at other times as appropriate including site visits and The key elements of the control framework, which the management presentations.
In addition to the meetings with Board has established and which are regularly reviewed by Executive Directors, institutional shareholders are offered the the Board with a view to providing effective internal controls, opportunity of additional meetings with the Non-Executive in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, are as follows: Directors.
The institutional shareholders have further a decentralised organisation structure with defined limits of opportunities to make their views known through follow up responsibility and authority in accordance with the Groups interviews by the Companys brokers which are then policy and procedures manual: documented and circulated to the Board.
The Executive Directors also provide feedback to the Board following an annual budgeting process with regular re-forecasting of presentations to investors.
results, identifying key risks and opportunities: The Executive Directors are in regular contact with defined investment approval procedures which include due stockbrokers analysts.
All shareholders are invited to the diligence where businesses are being acquired or divested: Annual General Meeting which provides an opportunity for monthly reporting of financial information to the Board communication with both private and institutional investors encompassing profit and loss, cashflow and balance sheet and the Board encourages all shareholders to attend.
information and key operating ratios: The Group maintains a website which continues to be a annual review of the Group internal control document which growing medium for communication to individual shareholders.
covers both the financial and non-financial areas of internal The annual and interim reports are made available via the controls, and is certified by the respective operating website, in addition to presentations to the analysts, regulatory Company Boards: news which includes interim management and trading statements and share price and shareholder information.
regular review of top down risk assessment and risk reduction plans: Pension plans The assets of the Groups pension plans are totally separate regular reporting to the Board on specific matters including from the assets of the Group and are invested with safety, insurance and treasury management: independent fund managers.
At the year end, the Groups main considering the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings non rail pension plan, the Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan, had and the relevant action determined in respect of any control 16 trustees, all of whom were employees, chosen to reflect the issues raised by internal and external auditors: geographic and functional spread of the Group.
The two Executive Directors are also trustees.
The Group Chief This framework is considered to be an integral part of the Executive is Chairman of the trustees and the Group Company Groups risk management processes and is reviewed regularly Secretary is Secretary to the trustees.
There are also two small by the Board to ensure that it accords with the Turnbull stand-alone non rail pension plans for employees of Wilts and guidance.
During the year, the Board continued to strengthen Dorset Limited and the Southern Vectis Group of companies.
the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing The majority of rail employees are members of the respective the key business risks faced by the Group.
As a result of these sections of the Railways Pension Scheme.
The auditors and processes, a number of minor control weaknesses were actuaries of all pension plans are independent of the Group.
identified during the year which are being addressed and Further details of all pension arrangements can be found in monitored.
There have been no weaknesses that would note 26 to the financial statements.
require specific disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
Going concern On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 24 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Policy on Directors remuneration requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 The policies for the next financial year are detailed below.
and has been approved by the Remuneration Committee In subsequent years the policies will be kept under review and the Board.
Ernst and Young LLP have audited certain to ensure that they reflect changing circumstances.
Where disclosures have been subject to The overall policy adopted by the Remuneration Committee audit, they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion is is to ensure that the Group is paying sufficient to attract, retain included in their report on page 73. and motivate Executive Directors of the desired calibre.
The The Board supports the principles of good corporate Committee considers Executive Directors cash bonuses, governance relating to Directors remuneration and, in which are dependent on the achievement of safety, corporate preparing this remuneration report, the Remuneration governance and financial targets in the relevant financial year.
Committee has followed the provisions of the The Committee is informed of the pay, incentives and Combined Code.
benefits packages of senior managers in the Group and its operating companies.
An ordinary resolution to receive and approve this Directors Remuneration Report will be proposed at the Companys In considering the Executive Directors remuneration, the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 October 2008.
Committee takes into account the pay practices of its major commercial competitors.
The Committee also has regard to Remuneration Committee procedures other factors specific to the Group and to each Director and Meetings his role and to the wider pay market in the FTSE 250.
Details of the members, the number of meetings and attendees The Remuneration Committee recognises that, for this in the year are shown on page 23.
Groups business, shareholder value is dependent on factors The Board continues to believe that, in the circumstances not all necessarily appearing within the published financial of this Group, the Chairman of the Board is the proper person statements, although their effect on later financial statements to be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as he has can be significant.
Leading these corporate governance issues more direct lines of communication with the business than are safety, control of risk and other executive actions of a the other Non-Executive Directors.
strategic nature that may take several accounting periods to show changes in shareholder value.
Executives in the Group Support to the Committee are encouraged to take corporate governance and strategy The Committee has appointed Watson Wyatt Limited, extremely seriously and always to consider the long-term independent remuneration specialists, to advise on all aspects implications of their decision-making.
The Remuneration of Board remuneration.
In addition to advising the Committee, Committee has regard to these factors, as well as the annual Watson Wyatt Limited are also consulting actuaries to the reported financial statements, in arriving at the Directors Group and advise on various pension issues.
The Committee overall remuneration and in considering the mix between receives recommendations from the Group Chief Executive on fixed and variable pay.
Executive Directors remuneration, other than his own.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors Role of the Committee The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a The key responsibilities and activities of the Committee matter for the Chairman and the Executive members of the during the year included: Board.
During 2008 a review of the level of fees paid to the determining the remuneration and conditions of Non-Executive Directors was undertaken.
Taking advice employment including any termination arrangements from Watson Wyatt Limited, the Committee considered of the Executive Directors: the fees paid for similar positions in the market and the time commitment required from the Non-Executive Directors.
determining the fees of the Chairman: With effect from 1 April 2008, the Non-Executive Directors reviewing the remuneration of senior managers within fees increased from 41,800 p. a. to 44,000 p. a. the Group: The Remuneration Committee also considers the reviewing the operation and continued appropriateness remuneration of the Chairman, in his absence.
During the year, of the Long Term Incentive Plan: and taking advice from Watson Wyatt Limited, the Committee proposed and the Board agreed that the Chairmans fees determining the contractual entitlements of the former would increase from 140,000 p. a to 150,000 p. a with effect Group Finance Director following his retirement: from 1 April 2008, to reflect the fees of chairmen of companies reviewing the terms of reference for the of comparable size and complexity.
Fees Fees 1 April 2008 1 April 2007 Acceptance by the Board of Remuneration 000 pa 000 pa Committee proposals Sir Patrick Brown 150 140 During the relevant period, the Committees Christopher Collins 44 42 recommendations were all accepted and implemented Rupert Pennant-Rea 44 42 by the Board without amendment.
The Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman cannot participate in any of the Companys share incentive or pension plan arrangements.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report continued Executive Directors salaries The performance conditions that have, so far, applied to Each of the Executive Directors is paid an annual basic salary all grants of awards have been based on a comparison of which is reviewed in April each year.
Salaries may be increased the Companys total shareholder return TSR with the TSR beyond inflation if justified by reference to the performance of of companies comprised in two peer groups.
the individual and if there is clear evidence that the existing The performance conditions applicable to one-half of each salaries are not competitive.
award is based on a comparison of the Companys TSR with Basic Salary Basic Salary the TSR of a peer group comprising four quoted companies 1 April 2008 1 April 2007 within the transport sector Arriva plc, FirstGroup plc, National 000 pa 000 pa Express Group plc and Stagecoach Group plc, and operates Keith Ludeman 500 470 as follows: Nicholas Swift 275 250 if the Companys TSR is midway between the TSR of the Nicholas Swift was appointed as Group Finance Director 17 July 2007.
Basic salary effective from 17 July 2007. comparator companies with the highest and the lowest TSRs, the award will vest as to 25%: Executive Directors cash bonuses Each of the Executive Directors are also eligible to earn an if the Companys TSR is higher than the TSR of the annual discretionary cash bonus of up to 100% of basic annual comparator company with the highest TSR, or is less than salary.
The bonus is paid in November each year, on the basis that TSR by not more than 25% of the difference between of achievement of financial and non-financial targets in the the TSRs of the comparator companies with the highest financial year ended in the previous June July.
The targets are and the lowest TSRs, the award will vest in full: and notified to the Executive Directors before the start of the year if the Companys TSR falls between those two positions, in question and are on a basis designed to introduce stretch the proportion of the award that will vest will increase, on into the performance assessment.
a straight-line basis, from 25% to 100%, the higher the TSR For the year ended 28 June 2008, the Remuneration of the Company.
Committee proposed, and the Board approved, bonus awards The Remuneration Committee has, however, recognised that of 67.5% of basic salary to the Group Chief Executive and if one company in the peer group were to perform very badly, the Group Finance Director.
A maximum bonus of 20% an award could vest notwithstanding that the performance of was awarded for the achievement of safety and corporate the Group were only marginally better.
A further maximum of 10% was earned Remuneration Committee has reserved the right to prevent after achieving 95% of budgeted profits.
Out of a potential awards vesting automatically if this is not justified by the maximum of 70% of bonus payable on the achievement of Groups performance.
115% of budget, 37.5% of bonus was earned after achieving 105.4% of budget.
The cash bonus targets remain unchanged The performance condition applicable to the other half of for the forthcoming financial year.
The bonus is nonthe award is based on a comparison of the Companys TSR pensionable and is paid in cash.
with the TSR of the companies excluding investment trusts in the FTSE 250 index of companies, as follows: Cash Bonus Cash Bonus 28 June 2008 30 June 2007 if the Companys TSR would place it at the median position, 000 000 the award will vest as to 25% only: Keith Ludeman 338 492 if the Companys TSR would place it in the top quartile, Nicholas Swift 186 the award will vest in full: and Appointed as Group Finance Director 17 July 2007.
First eligibility for cash bonus year ended 28 June 2008. if the Companys TSR would place it between those two Executive Directors Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP positions, the proportion of the award that will vest will The Go-Ahead Group Long-Term Incentive Plan 2005 LTIP increase, on a straight-line basis, from 25% to 100%, the was introduced with the approval of shareholders in October higher the position of the Company.
Under the LTIP, Executive Directors are eligible to be In both cases, no part of the awards will vest unless the granted awards whereby, subject to the satisfaction of Companys earnings per share has increased, during the performance conditions over a three-year period, they are performance period, in excess of the increase in the entitled to acquire a specified number of ordinary shares in Retail Prices Index for the same period plus 3% per year the Company.
The rules of the LTIP include, amongst other compounded annually.
provisions, limits on the number of shares over which a participant can be granted awards in any financial year the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Proposals for 2008 09 individual limit.
Currently, that limit which is determined The Remuneration Committee has a responsibility to review by reference to the average closing mid-market price of the regularly the operation and appropriateness of the LTIP within shares the subject of the awards on each dealing day falling in the overall remuneration arrangements and, during the year, the four-week period ending with the dealing day immediately such a review was undertaken.
With advice from Watson preceding their date of grant is 100% of the participants basic Wyatt Limited, the Remuneration Committee concluded that salary.
As disclosed when the LTIP was introduced, the rules the LTIP remained its preferred method of providing share allow awards to be made of up to 200% of a participants basic incentives to Executive Directors.
However, the Committee salary however, this is only in exceptional circumstances and also concluded that it needed to make some changes to there is currently no intention of doing so.
the way in which the Plan was operated in order to keep it in line with best practice and to increase its motivational effect for the Executive Directors.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 26 Fixed & performance related pay It is the Committees view that the changes to the LTIP will at maximum performance levels ensure that senior executives continue to be rewarded if they Basic salary excluding pension achieve substantial improvements in the Groups underlying contributions and benefits financial performance and perform well relative to other Value of LTIP shares vesting companies in the transport sector and other companies in the FTSE 250.
Performance related cash bonus Details of the changes, which the Company has discussed with its major shareholders and which it intends to apply to awards granted for the 2008 9 financial period, are set out below, but, in summary, involve: altering the performance conditions that will apply to future grants of awards: and Shareholding requirements proposals subject to obtaining shareholder approval, increasing the Historically it has been the Committees opinion that there individual limit.
has been no need for formal shareholding requirements because each Executive Director had a substantial personal a.
Following the appointment of a new Group Chief The Remuneration Committee has had some concerns Executive in 2006 and a new Group Finance Director in 2007, over the use of comparative TSR as the sole measure of the Committee has also reviewed the requirement for the performance.
Detailed research carried out by Watson Wyatt Executive Directors to hold shares in the Group.
As a result of Limited, on behalf of the Committee, has shown that it does this review, it was agreed that the Executive Directors would not always provide a fair reflection of performance.
In view be required to build up a personal shareholding equal to one of this, the Committee has recommended that the existing years base salary over a period of five years.
performance conditions will continue to apply to one-half of the award.
In the case of the other half of the award, no Executive Directors share bonus plan part will vest unless the Companys earnings per share has Until 2005, the Executive Directors share bonus plan was increased, during a three-year performance period, in excess used to make share based awards to Executive Directors of the increase in the Retail Prices Index for the same period and Senior Executives in the Group.
This has now been plus 3% per year compounded annually.
In that case, the replaced by the LTIP described previously.
award will vest as to 25% only.
This will increase to full vesting, The final grant of shares under the Executive Directors share on a straight line basis, if the Companys earnings per share bonus plan was made to the Executive Directors and one has increased, during the performance period, in excess of the Senior Executive in December 2005, in relation to the year increase in the Retail Prices Index for the same period plus ended 2 July 2005.
The award granted to the Group Chief 6% per year compounded annually.
Executive in October 2004, in relation to the year ended 3 July The Remuneration Committee considers that these 2004, matured and vested in full on 20 October 2007.
The performance conditions are relevant, challenging and designed only outstanding awards made under the plan that have not to enhance shareholder value and that awards will vest in full yet matured are those made to the Group Chief Executive only if exceptional performance has been achieved.
in December 2005 in relation to the year ending 2 July 2005.
These will remain in the trust for a period of three years from b.
Individual limit the award date, when title will be transferred to the Group Following a review of market practice of companies within Chief Executive, provided he is still employed by the Group the transport sector and the wider FTSE 250 index and or leaves for a permitted reason under the rules of the plan.
because the Company does not offer any other form of share incentive to Executive Directors other than those available to Details of the shares held under the rules of the plan can be all employees, it is the Committees view that the maximum found on page 31. size of award should increase from 100% to 150% of salary.
This will improve the balance between fixed and variable pay and between short and long-term incentives as well as maintaining competitiveness.
Fixed and performance related pay at maximum performance levels A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors pay is performance related.
The chart above shows the balance between fixed and performance related pay at maximum performance levels.
Maximum performance assumes achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of shares under the proposed LTIP rules which are subject to shareholders acceptance at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report continued Savings related share option scheme and share incentive plan Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment The Company operates a savings related share option scheme and their fees are determined by the Board based on surveys and a share incentive plan.
The Executive Directors are eligible of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of comparable to participate in these under terms identical to any other companies.
There is no fixed term of appointment.
Apart participating Group employee, if they so choose, and any such from salary and benefits in relation to the notice period for participation would not be separately regulated by the the relevant appointment, these terms contain no entitlement Remuneration Committee.
to compensation for early termination.
These letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys There are no other share option or long-term incentive registered office during normal business hours and will also schemes available to Executive Directors.
be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Other benefits Director Date of contract Notice period The Group does not allocate motor cars to any employees, including the Executive Directors.
Instead, personnel who Sir Patrick Brown February 1999 6 months would have been allocated a motor car as part of their benefits, Christopher Collins April 2005 6 months or to accomplish their work, are given a car replacement Keith Ludeman December 2006 1 year allowance.
Rupert Pennant-Rea October 2002 6 months Pension plan Nicholas Swift July 2007 1 year The Executive Directors are entitled to become members of Appointed as an Executive Director on 17 July 2007.
The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan, a registered pension plan.
Following his accession to Group Chief Executive in July 2006, Performance graph Keith Ludeman opted out of The Go-Ahead Group Pension The following graph shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Plan with effect from 1 December 2006, but retains a salary Group plc total cumulative shareholder return against that link in relation to his accrued benefit which is provided achieved by our peers and the FTSE 250 Index for the last five separately through an individual non-registered unfunded financial years to 30 June 2008.
In assessing the performance of pension arrangement.
In lieu of future benefits, Keith Ludeman the Groups TSR the Board believes the comparator groups it receives a non-pensionable salary supplement.
This salary has chosen represent an appropriate and fair benchmark upon supplement is not included with basic salary for the purposes which to measure the Groups performance for this purpose.
of calculating performance related cash bonus or long-term incentive plan awards.
Following his appointment as Group Finance Director in July 2007, Nicholas Swift joined The GoTotal shareholder return rebased to 100 Ahead Group Pension Plan with effect from 1 August 2007.
Directors contracts The Executive Directors have rolling contracts.
The Group 400 does not have any service agreements that provide special pension benefits such as beneficial early retirement terms to 300 Executive Directors.
Other than the notice periods specified, 200 Directors are not due any contractual compensation payments in the event of loss of office.
100 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Go-Ahead TSR Go-Ahead Peers TSR FTSE250 TSR The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 28 Audited information Emoluments and compensation Non-pensionable salary Performance related Car replacement Total exc.
Salary in 2007 includes 28,000 related to accrued holiday entitlement.
2 Resigned as an Executive Director 8 July 2006.
Under the terms of the former Group Chief Executives service agreement, contractual sick pay, car replacement allowance and benefits in kind were paid until death in September 2006.
3 Appointed as an Executive Director 17 July 2007.
Salary in 2007 includes the notional pension contributions which are deducted as a result of participating in the pensions salary sacrifice arrangement.
Directors share options Following his retirement on 1 July 2007, the 234 options at 1,210p awarded to Ian Butcher under the savings related share option scheme lapsed.
No further options have been granted to the Executive Directors.
Long Term Incentive Plan End of period Balance at 30 Awards lapsed Awards granted Share price at Awards vested Share price at Balance at 28 when conditions Award Date June 2007 in year in year date of award in year date of vesting June 2008 must be met No.
1 Ian Butcher 9 March 06 20,571 11,520 1,822p 9,051 2,490p 0 June 07 1 Ian Butcher 11 Sep 06 21,354 18,364 1,861p 2,990 2,519p 0 June 07 2 Keith Ludeman 9 March 06 17,791 1,822p 17,791 June 08 3 Keith Ludeman 11 Sep 06 24,514 1,861p 24,514 June 09 4 Keith Ludeman 10 Sep 07 17,974 2,548p 17,974 June 10 4 Nicholas Swift 10 Sep 07 9,556 2,548p 9,556 June 10 1 Following the retirement of the former Group Finance Director, Ian Butcher, on 1 July 2007, as required under the rules of the LTIP, the Committee considered the extent to which the awards granted to him in March 2006 and September 2006 should vest.
Taking advice from Watson Wyatt Limited on the extent to which the TSR and EPS tests had been met and then pro-rating the award for the periods 9 March 2006 to 30 June 2007 and 11 September 2006 to 30 June 2007, the Committee determined that 9,051 and 2,990 of the shares should be allowed to vest respectively 2 The awards granted on 9 March 2006 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be dependent upon the satisfaction of performance conditions as set out on page 26 covering the period commencing with the start of the 2005 06 financial year and ending with the end of the 2007 08 financial year.
3 The awards granted on 11 September 2006 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be dependent upon the satisfaction of performance conditions as set out on page 26, covering the period commencing with the start of the 2006 07 financial period and ending with the end of the 2008 09 financial period.
4 The awards granted on 10 September 2007 will vest following a period of three years from the award date and will be dependent upon the satisfaction of performance conditions as set out on page 26, covering the period commencing with the start of the 2007 08 financial period and ending with the end of the 2009 10 financial period.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors pension funds The following information relates to the Directors final salary pension benefits.
Disclosures required under the Stock Exchange Listing Rules Keith Ludeman Nicholas Swift Accrued pension 1 July 2007 000 p. a.
272 4 Directors notional contributions during the year 000 0 19 Increase in the accrued pension during the year in excess of inflation 000 p. a.
4 4 Transfer value of the increase in the accrued pension in excess of inflation and Directors notional 46 -3 contributions 000 Additional disclosures in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Keith Ludeman Nicholas Swift Increase in the accrued pension during the year 000 p. a.
14 4 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 1 July 2007 000 2,778 0 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 28 June 2008 000 2,776 16 Increase in transfer value over the year net of Directors notional contributions 000 -2 -3 Notes 1 The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11 published by The Board of Actuarial Standards.
In light of new legislation, changes in market conditions and actuarial advice, the Trustees of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan reviewed and amended the basis for the calculation of cash equivalent transfer values with effect from 1 February 2008.
2 Nicholas Swift and Keith Ludeman were members of the Groups approved final salary pension plan during the financial year.
In addition, part of Keith Ludemans benefit is provided separately through an individual unapproved unfunded pension arrangement.
The figures in the table above relate to Keith Ludemans benefits in both the approved and unapproved arrangements.
3 Ian Butcher resigned as Group Finance Director and as a Director of The Go-Ahead Group plc on 1 July 2007 and is consequently not included in the above table.
Mr Butcher took immediate early retirement from The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan on 2 July 2007 on standard Plan terms.
As at 1 July 2007 his immediate early retirement pension, before commutation for a cash lump sum on retirement, was 80,000p.
The transfer value figure, based on his immediate pension on retirement but based on market conditions and assumptions at the end of the financial year, was 1,926,000.
4 Keith Ludeman opted out of the Groups approved final salary arrangement from 1 December 2006 but retains a salary link in relation to his accrued benefit.
In lieu of future pension benefits, Keith Ludeman receives a non-pensionable salary supplement of 15% of basic salary which amounted to 71,655 during the financial year.
5 Nicholas Swift participated in the pensions salary sacrifice arrangement operated by the Group during the year.
The notional contributions shown in the table above are those he would have paid had he not participated in the salary sacrifice arrangement.
For and ob n ehalf of the Board Sir Patrick Brown, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 4 September 2008 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 30 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Other statutory information The Directors present their report and audited financial In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and statements for the year ended 28 June 2008. the Combined Code, Sir Patrick Brown, who was first elected to the Board in October 1999, will retire at the forthcoming Principal activities Annual General Meeting and being eligible will now offer The principal activities of the Group throughout the course himself for annual re-election.
Further information supporting of the year have been the provision of passenger transport the re-election of Sir Patrick Brown can be found on page 23. and aviation services.
Christopher Collins, who has served for nine years on the Results and dividends Board, will retire with effect from the conclusion of the Annual The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income General Meeting and will not stand for re-election.
To fill this statement on page 36.
The Directors propose that a final vacancy, Andrew Allner has been appointed as a Nondividend of 55.5p be paid, making a total of 81.0p for the year Executive Director effective from 24 October 2008 and 2007 70p.
The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be therefore will stand for election at the 2009 Annual General payable on 21 November 2008 to shareholders on the register Meeting in accordance with the Combined Code.
at the close of business on 31 October 2008.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company at A review of the business of the Group during the year and its 28 June 2008, with comparative figures for the 2007 year-end, prospects for the future, together with a description of the were as follows: principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, can be found 2008 2007 No.
in the Directors Report: Business Review from pages 2 to 19.
A description of the Groups funding and risk management Sir Patrick Brown Beneficial 10,149 7,500 policies can be found in note 26.
Christopher Collins Beneficial 10,000 10,000 Directors and their interests Keith Ludeman Beneficial 22,027 22,027 The names of the persons who at any time during the financial Rupert Pennant-Rea Beneficial 2,000 2,000 year were Directors of the Company are: Sir Patrick Brown, Nicholas Swift Christopher Collins, Keith Ludeman, Rupert Pennant-Rea and Includes 9,569 2007 : 21,640 shares held under the rules of the Executive Directors Nicholas Swift.
In addition, Ian Butcher retired from the Board share bonus plan as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There were no changes in these interests up to 4 September Nicholas Swift was appointed to the Board as Group Finance 2008.
Details of the Executive Directors interests in awards Director on 17 July 2007 and then appointed by ordinary granted to them as participants in the Long-Term Incentive resolution at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Christopher Plan, can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report Collins will retire from the Board as a Non-Executive Director on pages 25 to 30. following the close of the Annual General Meeting on 23 October 2008 and will be replaced by Andrew Allner whose No Director was interested in any contract or arrangement appointment will be effective on 24 October 2008. which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general Substantial shareholdings meeting of holders of ordinary shares.
The Directors have the As at 4 September 2008, the Company had been notified power to appoint a Director but any person so appointed shall of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and is or more of the voting rights in the Company: then eligible for appointment by ordinary resolution at that No.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, one Artemis Investment Management Ltd 3,968,988 9.31 third of the Directors or the nearest number to one third of Newton Investment Management Ltd 3,432,170 7.99 the Directors must retire from office at each Annual General Meeting.
Under the Combined Code published in July 2006, DS Ballinger 2,525,580 5.80 any Director who has held office for three years or more since JP Morgan Chase and Co. 2,110,118 4.85 their last appointment must offer themselves up for JR Moyes 2,054,061 4.57 reappointment at the Annual General Meeting and a NonF&C Management Ltd 2,001,540 4.46 Executive Director may serve longer than nine years, subject Schroders Investment Management Ltd 1,916,027 4.27 to annual re-election.
Legal & General Group plc 1,777,606 4.01 These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients interests within the respective asset management companies.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued Directors responsibilities in relation to the Directors declaration financial statements As far as each Director is aware, at the date when this report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report was approved, there is no relevant audit information of which and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director Standards as adopted by the European Union.
in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors The Directors are required to prepare Group financial are aware of that information.
statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial performance Management and staff and cashflows of the Group for that period.
In preparing The Group places considerable value on the involvement of those financial statements, the Directors are required to: its employees in the business and has continued its practice of keeping them informed on matters affecting them as select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 employees.
Employees are encouraged to participate directly Accounting Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates and in the prosperity of the Group through the Groups approved Errors and then apply them consistently: share option and incentive schemes.
present information, including accounting policies, in a The Groups savings related share option scheme sharesave manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and is approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
Currently, there are understandable information: two schemes in operation, whereby eligible employees were provide additional disclosures when compliance with the invited to enter into three-year savings contracts maturing in specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users July 2009 and June 2010.
Subsequent launches will be at the to understand the impact of particular transactions, other discretion of the Board and in accordance with guidelines events and conditions on the Groups financial position and issued by institutional investor bodies.
In particular, the Board financial performance: confirms that on a rolling ten-year basis the total number of share options utilised under the scheme, either exercised or state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to outstanding, will not exceed 10% of the issued share capital any material departures disclosed and explained in the excluding treasury shares.
financial statements: and The Group also operates a HM Revenue & Customs approved make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Share Incentive Plan SIP.
This is an ongoing plan whereby and prudent.
eligible employees can purchase partnership shares in the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting market each month.
Deductions from salary for purchase of records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time partnership shares are made before tax and national insurance the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure NI is calculated and employees retain the full tax and NI that the financial statements comply with the Companies benefit for all shares that remain in the SIP for five years or Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also more from their purchase.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and to all employees.
Appropriate training, career development detection of fraud and other irregularities.
and promotion opportunities are provided for all employees Responsibility statements regardless of gender, physical disability, religion, belief, race We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: or ethnic origin.
a. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to applications IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Disabled employees are the Company and the undertakings included in the eligible to participate in all career development opportunities consolidation taken as a whole: and available to staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees who become disabled to continue in their employment or to be b. the Directors Report: Business Review includes a fair review trained for other positions in the Group.
of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included The Group is committed to involving all employees in the in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with performance and development of the Group.
Employees are a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that encouraged to discuss with management matters of interest to they face.
the employees and subjects affecting day to day operations of the Group.
Discussions take place regularly with trade unions representing the employees in operating companies on a wide range of issues.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 32 Suppliers During the financial year 3,571,000 shares with a nominal value Each Group company agrees terms and conditions for its of 0.4m and representing 8.3% of the issued share capital business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made on were purchased under the authority for a total consideration these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by of 86.6m.
These purchases were in accordance with the the suppliers.
At 28 June 2008 the number of days purchases Companys share buyback policy in order to provide growing outstanding for the Company and the Group were nil and returns to shareholders.
During the year a total of 4,571,000 33 respectively 2007: nil and 31. shares with a nominal value of 0.5m and representing 10.6% of the issued share capital were cancelled including the Health, safety and environment cancellation of one million shares held in treasury.
The Group is fully committed to delivering the highest standards of health, safety and welfare for all of its employees and Additional information for shareholders customers and acknowledges its responsibility for other persons Where not stated previously in this Directors Report, the who may be affected by the Groups activities.
The Group is following provides the additional information required for committed to minimising any detrimental effect that the Groups shareholders as a result of the implementation of the activities may have upon the environment and acknowledges Takeovers Directive into UK law.
its responsibility to take reasonable measures to safeguard At 28 June 2008, the Companys issued share capital comprised the environment for both present and future generations.
a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details The Board takes all necessary steps to ensure that its statutory of the share capital and shares purchased and cancelled in duties are met in relation to health, safety and the environment.
the year can be found in note 24 to the consolidated The Groups internal policies in relation to health, safety and financial statements.
the environment are regularly monitored and the Groups Details of the changes in share capital, including purchases operating companies are subject to independent audit to by the Company of its own shares, are set out in note 24 ensure that the relevant objectives are achieved.
to the consolidated financial statements.
As at 4 September The Groups Environmental and Social Report and Economic 2008, the Company had not made any further purchases of Impact Report are published separately and can be found on its own shares for cancellation.
Under the existing authority, the Companys website www.
which remains in place until the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting, the Company may purchase a further Charitable donations 3,302,000 ordinary shares.
As at 4 September, the Company Charitable donations, sponsorship and community support held 3,902,230 shares in treasury.
over the year amounted to 0.3 million 2007: 0.3million.
No payments were made for political purposes 2007: nil.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed Hilton Newcastle Gateshead, Bottle Bank, Gateshead, NE8 2AR by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : on Thursday 23 October 2008 at 15:00 hours.
Details of the and business to be considered can be found in the Notice of Meeting restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial which has been sent to all shareholders with the Annual Report Services Authority whereby certain employees of the and Accounts 2008, and will be available on the Companys Company require the approval of the Company to deal in website www.
com from 26 September 2008. the Companys securities.
Authorities passed by special resolution at the 2007 Annual On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company General Meeting every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and The authorities for the Company to allot relevant securities and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every for the disapplication of pre-emption rights on the allotment of member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote equity securities, as passed by special resolution at the 2007 shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice Annual General Meeting, were not utilised in the financial year.
of Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either In the last three years shares amounting to 0.1% of the issued by proxy notice in person or by proxy in relation to resolutions share capital were issued on a non-pre-emptive basis.
to be passed at general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted The authority for the Company to make market purchases of and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each its own ordinary shares, as passed by special resolution at the resolution are announced at the Annual General Meeting and 2007 Annual General Meeting, was still in effect at the end of published on the Companys website www.
com after the financial year and will expire at the upcoming Annual the meeting.
General Meeting of the Company.
Under the authority the maximum aggregate number of shares that can be purchased is 4,500,000.
The authority also limits the maximum number of shares held in treasury to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company and states minimum maximum prices payable for shares purchased under the authority.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued Resolution 9, which will be proposed as a special resolution The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended at the Annual General Meeting, will seek renewal of the by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
authority to give the Company authority to use its available At the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on cash resources to acquire up to 4,297,829 of its own shares in 23 October 2008, a resolution will be put to shareholders the market for either cancellation or to hold them as treasury proposing amendments to the existing Articles of Association, shares.
The Directors will continue to use this authority only in accordance with the provisions of the new Companies after careful consideration, taking into account market Act 2006.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Meeting conditions prevailing at the time, other investment accompanying this document.
opportunities, appropriate gearing levels, and the overall Auditors position of the Company.
The Directors only purchase such Resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to share and the benefits for shareholders.
determine their remuneration will be put to members Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Company Limited, as trustee of The at the Annual General Meeting.
Go-Ahead Group Employee Trust, holds 0.12% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors of the Group and their dependants.
This By Order of the Board includes 0.02% which are beneficially owned by Keith Ludeman pursuant to the terms of the Companys share bonus plan under which no further awards will be made.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
Under the rules of The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive C Sephton, Plan, employees of the Group are entitled to acquire shares in Company Secretary the Company.
In order to preserve certain tax benefits these 4 September 2008 shares the partnership shares are held in a trust by Halifax Corporate Trustees Limited for employees.
Whilst the partnership shares are held in trust, the voting rights attached Registered office to them will not be exercised whether by the trustee or the 3rd Floor employees for whom they are held.
As at the date of this 4151 Grey Street report, 0.35% of the issued share capital of the Company is Newcastle Upon Tyne held by Halifax Corporate Trustees Limited.
In the event of NE1 6EE an offer being made to acquire the partnership shares the employees are entitled to direct Halifax Corporate Trustees Registered No.
2100855 Limited to accept an offer in respect of the partnership shares held on their behalf.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and for voting rights.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which are terminable upon the provision of fourteen days notice upon a change of control of the Company.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 34 Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of The Go-Ahead Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 28 June 2008, which consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated statements.
The other information comprises only the Group Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cashflow Statement, the Highlights, the Directors Report and Shareholder Information Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and and financial calendar.
We consider the implications for our the related notes 1 to 29.
These Group financial statements have report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 28 Basis of audit opinion June 2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International Report that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Companys members those matters we are required to state the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors assurance that the Group financial statements are free from The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set Group financial statements.
out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements Opinion in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 June 2008 and of financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance its profit for the year then ended: with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the IAS Regulation: and the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Review with the Group financial statements.
that is cross-referenced from the results and dividends section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Ernst & Young LLP, our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Registered auditor remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Newcastle Upon Tyne 4 September 2008 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Financial Statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 28 June 2008 2008 2007 Notes m m Group revenue 4 2,199.1 1,826.9 Operating costs excluding amortisation and exceptional items 5 2,054.2 1,708.8 Group operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 144.9 118.1 Goodwill and intangible asset amortisation 13 11.6 8.4 Exceptional items 8 16.4 6.9 Group operating profit after amortisation and exceptional items 116.9 102.8 Finance revenue 7 8.8 6.1 Finance costs 7 22.6 14.1 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 103.1 94.8 Analysed as: Before amortisation and exceptional items 131.1 110.1 Amortisation and exceptional items 28.0 15.3 Tax expense 9 26.3 23.6 Profit for the year from continuing operations 76.8 71.2 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 56.0 58.6 Minority interest 20.8 12.6 76.8 71.2 Earnings per share from continuing operations basic 10 128.8p 124.2p diluted 10 127.3p 122.6p adjusted 10 174.8p 140.7p Dividends paid pence per share 11 72.5p 61.0p Final dividend proposed pence per share 11 55.5p 47.0p The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 36 Financial Statements Consolidated balance sheet as at 28 June 2008 Restated 2008 2007 Notes m m Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 12 426.6 424.7 Intangible assets 13 136.2 129.4 Trade and other receivables 17 1.5 1.8 Other financial assets 28 8.7 Deferred tax assets 9 17.2 11.9 590.2 567.8 Current assets Inventories 16 12.0 9.3 Trade and other receivables 17 238.2 171.7 Cash and short-term deposits 18 157.1 128.9 Other financial assets 28 18.6 0.7 425.9 310.6 Assets classified as held for sale 15 2.6 0.9 Total assets 1,018.7 879.3 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 19 444.0 365.3 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 38.6 42.5 Current tax liabilities 6.0 14.0 488.6 421.8 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20 314.6 230.4 Retirement benefit obligations 26 59.4 26.8 Deferred tax liabilities 9 77.9 59.7 Other liabilities 19 9.8 7.7 Provisions 21 0.9 1.3 462.6 325.9 Total liabilities 951.2 747.7 Net assets 67.5 131.6 Capital & reserves Share capital 24 71.3 65.4 Reserve for own shares 24 68.8 80.6 Hedging reserve 24 17.5 0.5 Other reserves 24 1.6 1.6 Capital redemption reserve 24 0.7 0.2 Retained earnings 24 31.9 138.7 Total shareholders equity 54.2 125.8 Minority interest 24 13.3 5.8 Total equity 67.5 131.6 Sir Patrick Brown, Chairman 4 September 2008 Nick Swift, Group Finance Director 4 September 2008 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Financial Statements Consolidated cashflow statement for the year ended 28 June 2008 2008 2007 Notes m m Profit for the year 76.8 71.2 Net finance costs 7 13.8 8.0 Tax expense 9 26.3 23.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 49.1 44.6 Amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets 13 11.6 8.4 Impairment of goodwill 13 3.8 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 1.7 0.6 Share based payments 6 2.5 2.0 Loss on sale of subsidiary 1.8 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 16.8 2.0 Movement in provisions 0.4 6.7 Decrease in inventories 1.3 0.8 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 45.4 11.0 Increase in trade and other payables 66.4 29.7 Cashflow generated from operations 192.5 191.2 Taxation paid 18.1 11.5 Net cashflows from operating activities 174.4 179.7 Cashflows from investing activities Interest received 8.5 6.0 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 6.2 3.7 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 55.5 57.4 Purchase of intangible assets 5.4 1.2 Purchase of subsidiaries 14 5.5 22.9 Overdraft acquired with subsidiaries 0.1 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries 2.0 Net receipt on transfer of rail franchises 4.9 Additional contribution to railways pension scheme 10.4 Deposit paid on rolling stock 21.2 Net cashflows used in investing activities 76.4 71.9 Cashflows from financing activities Interest paid 22.5 14.1 Dividends paid to members of the parent 11 31.4 28.9 Dividends paid to minority interests 16.7 14.7 Proceeds from issue of shares 24 6.4 Payment to acquire own shares 24 87.3 51.6 Repayment of borrowings 259.0 136.7 Proceeds from borrowings 351.2 188.8 Proceeds from finance lease and hire purchase 4.5 21.2 Payment of finance lease and hire purchase liabilities 20.1 23.4 Repayment of loan notes 0.4 0.2 Net cash outflows on financing activities 75.3 59.6 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 22.7 48.2 Cash and cash equivalents at 30 June 2007 18 128.6 80.4 Cash and cash equivalents at 28 June 2008 18 151.3 128.6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 38 Financial Statements Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 28 June 2008 Restated 2008 2007 Notes m m Income and expense recognised directly in equity Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension plans 26 44.6 75.0 Unrealised gains on cashflow hedges 28 33.3 0.7 Gains on cashflow hedges taken to income statement operating costs 28 6.7 Tax recognised directly in equity 9 5.1 19.8 Net expense income recognised directly in equity 12.9 55.9 Profit for the year 76.8 71.2 Total recognised income and expense for the year 63.9 127.1 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 39.5 110.3 Minority interest 24.4 16.8 63.9 127.1 Restated 2008 2007 m m Effect of change in accounting policy Decrease in revaluation reserve 24.0 Reversal of impairment charges 1.4 Deferred tax on the above 6.6 16.0 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 28 June 2008 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement major transport companies and thereby provides more reliable of compliance with IFRS and relevant information on the financial position and performance The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc of the Group.
Accordingly prior year comparatives have been the Group for the year ended 28 June 2008 were authorised restated to reflect this change in policy, as required by IAS 8 for issue by the Board of Directors on 4 September 2008 and Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Patrick The impact of this change is set out in note 24.
As a result of the Brown and Nicholas Swift.
The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public change in the accounting policy the carrying value of fixed assets limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its has decreased by 11.0m at 1 July 2006 and a further 11.6m registered office in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary at 30 June 2007 with a corresponding decrease in the revaluation shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange and it reserve at that date.
The deferred tax liability has reduced by is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Revenue The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been reserves have increased by 4.8m at 1 July 2006 and 8.0m prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting at 30 June 2007.
The impact of the change on the income Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU as they statement is not material.
apply to the consolidated financial statements of the Group for New standards the year ended 28 June 2008, and applied in accordance with the The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The Group is required and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these to comply with international accounting requirements under IAS1 revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect Presentation of Financial Statements except in extremely rare on the financial performance or position of the Group.
They circumstances where management concludes that compliance did however give rise to additional disclosures, including, in would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective to some cases, revisions to accounting policies.
present fairly its financial statements.
On that basis, the Group has departed from the requirements of IAS19, Employee Benefits and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures has accounted for its constructive but not legal obligations for the This standard requires disclosure of information that enables Railways Pension Scheme RPS under the terms of its UK rail users of the financial statements to evaluate the significance of franchise agreements.
Details of the background and rationale the Groups financial instruments and the nature and extent of for this departure are provided in note 26. risks arising from those financial instruments.
The new disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
Summary of significant accounting policies been no effect on the financial position or results, comparative Basis of preparation information has been revised where needed.
A summary of the Groups accounting policies applied in IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements preparing the financial statements for the year ended 28 June This amendment requires the Group to make new disclosures to 2008 are set out below.
enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the Groups The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
These sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred new disclosures are shown in the Directors Report and note 27. thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2, IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded As noted above, the Group has taken the decision to depart Derivatives, IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment, from the requirements of IAS19 Employee Benefits so as to and transactions had no impact on the financial position or present fairly its financial performance, position, and cashflows performance of the Group.
in respect of its obligation for the RPS.
Use of estimates Change of accounting policy The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of Valuation of property estimates and assumptions.
Although these estimates are based The Group has elected to change its accounting policy of carrying on managements best knowledge, actual results ultimately may land and buildings at valuation and apply the cost model under differ from these estimates.
On first time adoption of The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant IAS16 on 3 July 2004, the Group elected to measure properties risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets at their fair value and use those fair values as deemed cost as at and liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: that date.
The Directors still believe that the use of this election was appropriate, since it allowed properties that under UK the measurement and impairment testing of indefinite life GAAP had been carried at either cost, acquisition fair value or intangible assets requires estimation of future cashflows and using a 1998 valuation to be measured on a consistent basis the selection of a suitable discount rate and growth rate, as under IFRS.
In addition, the Group determined at that time to detailed in note 13: apply the revaluation model in IAS 16, with property recognised the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations initially at cost and thereafter measured at fair value less any requires the estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, subsequent depreciation and impairment.
the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable This policy of revaluation was adopted in part because it seemed discount rate, as set out in note 26: and to reflect better the underlying value of these properties to the the measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an business and also because it was believed that other transport assessment of the expected settlement of known claims companies would move to a revaluation model.
However, this has and an estimate of the cost of claims not yet reported not proved to be the case, with all our major peers adopting the to the Group, as detailed as follows: cost model.
After consideration, the Group has decided that the use of the cost model improves the comparability with other The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 40 Basis of consolidation Finance revenue The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Government grants Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control Government grants are recognised at their fair value where is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the financial statements of subsidiaries for use in the consolidation grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised in the income are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent Group statement over the period necessary to match on a systematic and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intergroup basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
a deferred income account and is released to the income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.
Minority interests represent the interests not held by the Group in GOVIA Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are presented Uninsured liabilities within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer from parent shareholders equity.
and public liability claims through insurance policies issued by third parties.
These provide individual claim cover, subject to high Revenue recognition excess limits and an annual aggregate stop loss for total claims Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that within the excess limits.
An accrual is made within current the income will flow to the Group and the value can be liabilities for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date, subject to the the consideration received, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT overall stop loss.
On the basis that the Group does not have an and other sales taxes or duty.
unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 12 months Rendering of services after the balance sheet date, these uninsured liabilities are The revenue of the Group comprises income from road classified as current.
passenger transport, rail passenger transport and aviation services.
The estimation of the balance sheet uninsured claims accrual is Bus revenue comprises amounts receivable generated from ticket made after taking appropriate professional advice and is based sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf of on an assessment of the expected settlement on known claims, local transport authorities.
Aviation revenue represents income together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in receivable generated from contracts in place with airlines and respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date other aviation businesses.
It also includes parking revenue but that have not yet been reported to the Group.
generated through the operation and management of car parks Franchise bid costs and associated services, which include security and bus A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding transportation.
Where the Group acts as a managing agent at a for and securing franchises to operate rail services in the UK.
car park it recognises only the commission earned as revenue.
All franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed bidder status are treated as an expense in the income statement models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited irrespective of the ultimate outcome of the bid.
Directly which administers the income allocation system within the UK attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving preferred rail industry, in respect of passenger receipts and other related bidder status are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission on over the life of the franchise.
In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT Profit revenue sharing agreements and local Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing revenue, and franchise premium payments to DfT are recognised agreements with the DfT.
An accrual is made within amounts in operating costs.
payable to central government for the estimated cost to Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion the Group of the relevant amounts accrued at the balance of the customers journey or for other services based on the sheet date.
The attributable share of Exceptional items season ticket or travel card income is deferred within liabilities The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the and released to the income statement over the life of the income statement, those material items of revenue or expense relevant season ticket or travel card.
which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the Rental income events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties better understanding of financial performance.
and subleasing of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
Property, plant and equipment It is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRS less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Reports and Accounts 2008 41 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment of assets Depreciation is charged to the income statement based on The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is cost or fair value, less estimated residual value of each asset an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication evenly over its expected useful life as follows: exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount, Short leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease being the higher of the assets or cash-generating units fair value Freehold buildings and less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is determined long leasehold land and buildings Over 10 to 100 years for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash Rolling stock Over 8 to 15 years inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and the estimated future cashflows are Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment that reflects current market assessments of the time value are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in of money and the risks specific to the asset.
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable If any such indication exists the assets are written down to their amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written recoverable amount.
down to its recoverable amount.
Non-current assets held for sale Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the income statement in those expense categories consistent the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the impairment loss was recognised.
The reinstated amount cannot exceed the carrying amount Business combinations and goodwill that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no Acquisitions of businesses since 3 July 2004 are accounted for impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
under IFRS3 using the purchase method.
Goodwill on acquisition After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future is initially measured at cost being the excess of the costs of the periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, meeting the conditions for recognition under IFRS3 at the Franchise assets acquisition date.
It is capitalised and carried as an asset on the Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise require balance sheet.
If an acquisition gives rise to negative goodwill, the Group to assume legal responsibility for any pension liability this is released immediately to the income statement.
that exists at that point in time, the Group recognises a liability representing the fair value of the related net pension deficit that In some instances certain fair value accounting adjustments the Group expects to fund during the franchise term.
When a are required to be made using provisional estimates, based on pension deficit exists at the start of the franchise, a corresponding information available, and amendments are sometimes necessary intangible asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in acquiring the in the 12 months following the acquisition, with a corresponding right to operate the franchise.
If a pension surplus exists at the adjustment to goodwill.
start of the franchise, then a corresponding deferred income Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less balance is recognised, representing a government grant.
The any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for intangible asset or deferred income balance is amortised through impairment, annually, or more frequently if events or changes the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income The carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment statement and not subsequently reversed.
For the purposes at the end of the first full financial year following the award of of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the related the franchise and in other periods if events or changes in cash-generating units monitored by management.
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition be recoverable.
to IFRS has been retained at the previous amounts, and has been subject to impairment testing as at the transition date and annually thereafter.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 27 June 1998 has not been reinstated.
In the event of subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates, goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal to be charged to the income statement.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 42 Software Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the capitalised as an intangible asset and stated at cost less asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts amortisation and any impairment in value.
Amortisation is are capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding liability charged to the income statement evenly over its expected being recognised, and are depreciated over the shorter of their useful life of 3 to 5 years.
useful lives and the lease terms.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts are included Inventories as liabilities in the balance sheet.
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to costs incurred in bringing the items to their present location and the income statement over the periods of the leases and hire condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling purchase contracts and represents a constant proportion of price less costs of sale.
the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Cash and cash equivalents Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of amortisation of lease incentives and initial direct costs in securing the consolidated cashflow statement, cash and cash equivalents leases, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of basis over the lease term.
Provisions Financial assets and derivatives Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS39.
or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the transaction price plus directly attributable transaction costs.
obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated Treasury shares with fuel price fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, recognised at fair value by reference to market values for similar are deducted from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated instruments, and subsequently re-measured at fair value at each costs are also recognised in shareholders funds as a separate balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups shares is transferred from Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are the reserve for own shares to revenue reserves.
designated and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised Retirement benefits immediately in the income statement.
When the cashflow hedge The Group operates a number of pension schemes: both results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then defined benefit and defined contribution.
The costs of these are at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains recognised in the income statement within operating costs.
As or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in discussed below, the Group has invoked the provisions of IAS1 equity are included in the initial measurement of that nonPresentation of Financial Statements and has departed from the financial asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the requirements of IAS19 in respect of the rail pension schemes.
recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity Non-rail schemes are recognised in the income statement in the period which the The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans hedged item affects net profit or loss.
is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken current period to determine current service cost and to the directly to the income statement as they arise.
current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or change in present value of obligations during the period, and is rollover, or otherwise no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging value of the benefit obligation, taking into account material instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until the forecast changes in the obligation during the year.
The expected return transaction occurs, at which point it is taken to the income on plan assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning statement or included in the initial carrying amount of the related of the year of long-term market returns on scheme assets, non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss contributions received and benefits paid during the year.
recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement.
The Group has applied the option under IAS19 to recognise Interest-bearing loans and borrowings actuarial gains and losses in the Statement of Recognised Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being Income and Expense in the period in which they occur.
the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Following initial recognition the carrying amount is The difference between the expected return on plan assets measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
and the interest cost, along with the current service cost, is Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses arising on the recognised in the income statement within operating costs.
repurchase, settlement or other fide-recognition of debt, are recognised directly in the income statement.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Reports and Accounts 2008 43 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet recognised, at each reporting date, reflects the extent to comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the which the period to vesting has expired and the Directors best defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest or, quality corporate bonds, less any past service cost not yet in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which treated as vesting as described above.
the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest market price information and in the case of quoted securities is except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market the published bid price.
condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other basis over the vesting period or immediately if the benefits have performance conditions are satisfied.
When a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date already accrued or a curtailment reducing future obligations as of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a is recognised immediately.
reduction in future entitlement occurs the obligation and related Taxation plan assets are remeasured using current actuarial assumptions Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount and the resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation during the period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
authorities on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or the charged to operating costs in the income statement as they liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have fall due.
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Rail schemes Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary Our train operating companies participate in the Railways differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of Pension Scheme RPS, a defined benefit scheme which covers assets and liabilities for taxation purposes, and their carrying the whole of the UK Rail Industry.
This is partitioned into sections amounts in the financial statements.
It is provided for on all and the Group is responsible for the funding of these schemes temporary differences, except: whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast to the on the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the a shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit shared 60% employer and 40% employee.
A liability or asset nor taxable profit or loss: and is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is offset by a franchise adjustment so that in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with the net liability or asset represents the deficit or surplus that the investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal Group expects to fund or benefit from during the franchise term.
of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is This represents a departure from IAS19 so as to present fairly the probable that the temporary differences will not reverse Groups financial performance, position and cashflow in respect of in the foreseeable future.
its obligations for the RPS.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is Share-based payment transactions probable that the temporary differences will be reversed in the The cost of options granted to employees is measured by foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available to allow reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The determined by an external valuation using an appropriate pricing carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each model.
In valuing equity-settled options, no account is taken of any balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions.
all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which in equity and not in the income statement.
Otherwise, tax is the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with recognised in the income statement.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 44 New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS periods beginning on or after IFRS 8 Operating segments 1 January 2009 IAS 23 Borrowing costs revised 1 January 2009 IFRS 2 Share-based payments vesting conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 Business combinations revised 1 July 2009 IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements revised 1 July 2009 IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements revised 1 January 2009 Amendment to IAS 32 and IAS 31 Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidations 1 January 2009 Amendment to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Amendments for determining the cost of an investment in separate financial statements 1 January 2009 Amendment to IAS 39 Eligible hedged items 1 January 2009 International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee IFRIC IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes 1 July 2008 IFRIC 14 IAS19 The limit on defined benefit assets, minimum funding requirements 1 January 2008 IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements 1 January 2008 IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate 1 January 2009 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation 1 October 2008 At present the Directors are reviewing the requirements of the above standards.
However, they do not anticipate adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Reports and Accounts 2008 45 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segmental Analysis The Groups primary reporting format is business segments and its secondary format is geographical segments.
The operating businesses are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and services provided, with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers different products and serves different markets, as detailed in the Directors Report.
Transfer prices between business segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The Group has only one reportable geographical segment, being the United Kingdom.
Business segments The following tables present revenue and profit information and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 28 June 2008 and 30 June 2007.
Year ended 28 June 2008 Aviation Bus Rail services Unallocated Total m m m m m Segment revenue 578.5 1,381.4 267.0 2,226.9 Inter-segment revenue 20.8 3.0 4.0 27.8 Group revenue 557.7 1,378.4 263.0 2,199.1 Group operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 66.2 77.2 1.5 144.9 Goodwill and intangible amortisation 1.9 9.3 0.4 11.6 Exceptional items 8.4 8.0 16.4 Segment result 55.9 67.9 6.9 116.9 Net finance costs 13.8 Profit before tax and minority interest 103.1 Tax expense 26.3 Profit for the year 76.8 Assets and liabilities Segment assets 479.0 376.8 129.3 31.0 1,016.1 Assets classified as held for sale 2.6 2.6 Total assets 481.6 376.8 129.3 31.0 1,018.7 Segment liabilities 92.3 333.1 44.3 481.5 951.2 Net assets liabilities 389.3 43.7 85.0 450.5 67.5 Aviation Bus Rail services Total m m m m Other segment information Capital expenditure: Additions 36.3 9.3 9.9 55.5 Acquisitions 3.5 4.6 8.1 Intangible fixed assets 2.0 3.4 5.4 Depreciation 30.911.36.9 49.1 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 46 Year ended 30 June 2007 restated Aviation Bus Rail services Unallocated Total m m m m m Segment revenue 520.2 1,073.4 244.8 1,838.4 Inter-segment revenue 6.2 2.1 3.2 11.5 Group revenue 514.0 1,071.3 241.6 1,826.9 Group operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 55.8 66.1 3.8 118.1 Goodwill and intangible amortisation 0.7 7.5 0.2 8.4 Exceptional items 6.9 6.9 Segment result 55.1 51.7 4.0 102.8 Net finance costs 8.0 Profit before tax and minority interest 94.8 Tax expense 23.6 Profit for the year 71.2 Assets and liabilities Segment assets 463.5 264.8 127.9 22.2 878.4 Assets classified as held for sale 0.9 0.9 Total assets 464.4 264.8 127.9 22.2 879.3 Segment liabilities 87.6 258.8 40.2 361.1 747.7 Net assets liabilities 376.8 6.0 87.7 338.9 131.6 Aviation Bus Rail services Total m m m m Other segment information Capital expenditure: Additions 36.1 4.9 16.6 57.6 Acquisitions 7.9 0.6 8.5 Intangible fixed assets 16.2 0.7 3.7 20.6 Depreciation 29.09.2 6.444.6 Summary of unallocated assets and liabilities Restated 2008 2007 m m Assets Cash 13.8 10.3 Deferred tax assets 17.2 11.9 31.0 22.2 Liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 347.4 272.6 Overdraft 5.8 0.3 Current tax liabilities 6.0 14.0 Deferred tax liabilities 77.9 59.7 Group retirement benefit obligations The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan 44.4 14.5 Other liabilities 481.5 361.1 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Operating costs 2008 2007 m m Staff costs note 6 813.7 704.2 Other operating income 20.3 18.6 Other external charges 446.6 375.2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 27.7 22.4 leased assets 21.4 22.2 Total depreciation expense 49.1 44.6 Goodwill and intangible amortisation 11.6 8.4 Auditors remuneration audit of the financial statements 0.6 0.6 taxation services 0.2 0.3 other services 0.1 0.9 0.9 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 108.5 85.4 Write down of inventories to net realisable value 0.3 0.2 108.8 85.6 Trade receivables not recovered 1.7 0.4 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 666.9 533.5 sublease payments 9.2 13.9 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense 657.7 519.6 Government grants 3.6 3.7 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.6 Exceptional items note 8 16.4 6.9 Total operating costs 2,082.2 1,724.1 The fee relating to the audit of the financial statements can be analysed between audit of the Companys financial statements of 0.1m 2007 0.1m and audit of subsidiaries financial statements of 0.5m 2007 0.5m.
In addition to audit fees detailed above, nil 2007 0.3m of non-audit fees were capitalised as part of the cost of acquisitions and franchise bid costs during the year.
During the year, 1.2m 2007 2.0m was also paid to other Big 4 accounting firms for a variety of services.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 48 6.
Staff costs 2008 2007 m m Wages and salaries 717.3 618.2 Social security costs 63.4 54.8 Other pension costs 30.5 29.2 Share based payments charge 2.5 2.0 813.7 704.2 The average monthly number of employees during the year, including Directors, was: 2008 2007 No.
Administration and supervision 2,676 2,726 Maintenance and engineering 2,188 1,826 Operations 22,763 19,826 27,627 24,378 The information required by Schedule 6 1 of the Companies Act 1985 and details regarding compensation of key management personnel of the Group is provided in the Directors Report.
Sharesave Scheme The Group operates a HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2003 the Sharesave Scheme.
The Sharesave Scheme is open to all Group employees including executive Directors who have completed at least six months service with a Group company at the date they are invited to participate in the scheme.
Qualifying employees are invited to save between 5 and 75 per month up to a maximum of 250 per month across all schemes for a period of three years.
At the end of that period, employees can apply the amounts saved, together with a bonus, in acquiring shares in the Company at a minimum price equal to 80% of their market price at the time of invitation.
There are savings-related options at 28 June 2008 as follows: Scheme maturity 1 June 2010 1 July 2009 1 June 2008 Option price 19.14 14.62 12.10 No.
of options exercised during the year 129 1,955 521,094 No.
of options exercisable at 28 June 2008 5,657 6,135 72,266 The expense recognised for these schemes during the year to 28 June 2008 was 2.3m 2007 1.6m.
The following table illustrates the number No.
and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of share options for the SAYE: 2008 2007 WAEP WAEP No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,847,855 15.15 1,440,697 13.27 Granted during the year 565,945 19.14 Forfeited during the year 173,936 16.14 154,241 12.33 Exercised during the year 523,178 12.11 4,546 10.80 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,150,741 16.38 1,847,855 15.15 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was 15.34 2007 22.18.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.3 years 2007 1.9 years.
These options are exercisable between 12.10 and 19.14 2007 between 12.10 and 19.14.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Staff costs continued The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, future dividend yield, future risk free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life.
Share incentive plan The Company operates an HMRC approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan the SIP.
The SIP is open to all Group employees including executive Directors who have completed at least six months service with a Group company at the date they are invited to participate in the plan.
The SIP permits the Company to make four different types of awards to employees free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares, although the Company has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only.
Under these awards, the Company invites qualifying employees to apply between 10 and 125 per month in acquiring shares in the Company at the prevailing market price.
Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are available to the Company and employees.
Long-term incentive plan LTIP The executive Directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 the LTIP.
The LTIP provides for executive Directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Company conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of three years.
Refer to the Directors Report for further details of the LTIP.
The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 28 June 2008 was 0.2m 2007 0.4m.
The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 28 June 2008 were: 2008 2007 % per annum % per annum The Go-Ahead Group Future share price volatility 22.0 21.0 Transport Sector comparator Future share price volatility 21.0 27.0 20.0 27.0 Correlation between companies 40.0 40.0 FTSE Mid-250 index comparator Future share price volatility 25.0 25.0 Correlation between companies 20.0 20.0 The following table illustrates the number of share options for the LTIP: 2008 2007 No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 87,577 61,713 Granted during the year 27,530 45,868 Forfeited during the year 29,884 20,004 Vested during the year 15,388 Outstanding at the end of the year 69,835 87,577 None of the options were exercisable at the year end and the weighted average exercise price of the options is nil.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 50 7.
Finance revenue and costs 2008 2007 m m Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 8.0 5.4 Other interest receivable 0.8 0.7 Finance revenue 8.8 6.1 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 18.3 10.4 Other interest payable 1.7 1.2 Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 2.6 2.5 Finance costs 22.6 14.1 8.
Exceptional items 2008 2007 m m Redundancy and reorganisation costs 8.0 Impairment charges and loss on sale of business 8.4 EC4T 6.9 16.4 6.9 The redundancy and reorganisation costs relate to the closure and restructuring of a number of our operations within our aviation business.
The impairment charges and loss on sale of business relates to the sale of The Birmingham Omnibus Company Ltd formerly known as Go West Midlands and The Birmingham Coach Company Ltd on 29 February 2008.
EC4T is electricity purchased by the train companies to operate electric trains from Network Rail.
During the prior year our rail companies negotiated a new basis for determining the cost of electricity going forward.
In return for agreeing to revise the terms of the related track access agreements to reflect this new basis, Network Rail required the Group to make a one-off compensation payment.
This cost was identified as an exceptional item, given the size of this payment and the fact that it was made to secure a fundamental change to the basis on which the Group is charged for EC4T.
Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity 2008 2007 m m Current tax charge 16.8 19.1 Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 3.1 13.7 19.1 Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 9.6 6.9 Impact of deferred tax rate change 30% to 28% 1.7 Previously unrecognised deferred tax of a prior period 3.0 0.7 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 26.3 23.6 Tax relating to items charged or credited to equity Restated 2008 2007 m m Corporation tax on share based payments 0.7 0.1 Deferred tax on share based payments 2.3 1.4 Tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension plans 12.5 23.1 Tax on IAS39 asset 7.4 0.2 Revaluation of land and buildings 3.5 Tax reported in equity 3.5 18.3 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Taxation continued b. Reconciliation A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit before tax at the statutory tax rate to tax at the Groups effective tax rate for the years ended 28 June 2008 and 30 June 2007 is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 103.1 94.8 At United Kingdom tax rate of 29.5% 2007 30% 30.4 28.4 Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 3.1 Previously unrecognised deferred tax of a prior period 3.0 0.7 Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes 2.5 1.1 Goodwill amortisation and impairment charges 1.4 0.8 Differences re: tax efficient financing 7.4 4.3 Rate change due to timing differences 29.5% to 28% 0.5 Deferred tax rate change 30% to 28% 1.7 Tax reported in consolidated income statement at effective tax rate of 25.5% 2007 24.9% 26.3 23.6 c. Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Restated 2008 2007 m m Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 25.9 18.6 Intangible assets 7.1 3.9 Other temporary differences 20.6 13.9 Revaluation of land and buildings 24.3 23.3 77.9 59.7 Deferred tax asset Retirement benefit obligations 16.6 7.5 Share based payments 0.5 2.6 Losses carried forward 0.1 1.8 17.2 11.9 The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Accelerated capital allowances 5.4 7.7 Share based payments 0.2 0.4 Tax losses 1.4 Retirement benefit obligations 3.6 0.1 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 Other temporary differences 0.8 2.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.0 0.7 Rate change 30% to 28% 1.7 Deferred income tax expense 12.6 4.5 d. Factors that may affect future tax charges In the 2007 budget the UK government announced its intention to legislate to abolish industrial buildings allowances.
As of 28 June 2008, this change was not substantially enacted.
Had the change been substantially enacted as of the balance sheet date, the estimated impact on the balance sheet would be an increase in the deferred tax liability of 7.8m.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 52 10.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 2008 2007 Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent m 56.0 58.6 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000 43,481 47,188 Basic earnings per share pence per share 128.8 124.2 The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Company, and shares held in trust for the Directors Long Term Incentive Plan.
Diluted earnings per share 2008 2007 Net Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent m 56.0 58.6 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000 43,481 47,188 Effect of dilution: Dilutive potential ordinary shares under share option schemes 000 505 601 Adjusted weighted average number of shares 000 43,986 47,789 Diluted earnings per share pence per share 127.3 122.6 The dilution calculation assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share is also presented to eliminate the impact of goodwill and intangible amortisation and exceptional costs and revenues in order to show a normalised earnings per share.
This is analysed as follows: 2008 Profit Exceptional for the year items Amortisation Total m m m m Profit before taxation 103.1 16.4 11.6 131.1 Less: Taxation 26.3 2.8 2.7 31.8 Less: Minority Interest 20.8 2.5 23.3 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 56.0 13.6 6.4 76.0 Adjusted earnings per share pence per share 174.8 2007 Profit Exceptional for the year items Amortisation Total m m m m Profit before taxation 94.8 6.9 8.4 110.1 Less: Taxation 23.6 2.1 1.7 27.4 Less: Minority Interest 12.6 1.7 2.0 16.3 Adjusted profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 58.6 3.1 4.7 66.4 Adjusted earnings per share pence per share 140.7 11.
Dividends paid and proposed 2008 2007 m m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2007: 47p per share 2006 38p 20.5 18.1 Interim dividend for 2008: 25.5p per share 2007 23p 10.9 10.8 31.4 28.9 2008 2007 m m Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability as at 28 June Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2008: 55.5p per share 2007 47p 23.2 21.6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53 Financial Statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 54
