Other information Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty-first AGM of Greene King plc will be held at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk on Tuesday 2 September 2008 at 12 noon.
Resolutions 1 to 10 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 11 to 14 will be proposed as special resolutions.
1 To receive the report of the directors and the accounts for the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008 and the auditors report thereon.
2 To approve the directors remuneration report as set out on pages 71 to 77 of the annual report for the 53 weeks ended 4 May 2008.
3 To declare a final dividend of 18.7p per ordinary share.
4 To re-elect Tim Bridge as a director of the company.
5 To re-elect David Elliott as a director of the company.
6 To re-elect Jane Scriven as a director of the company.
7 To re-elect John Brady as a director of the company.
8 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the company until the conclusion of the next AGM.
9 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors of the company.
10 That the authorities and powers conferred on the directors by article 11 of the articles of association of the company be renewed for the period ending on the date of the AGM in 2009 and that for such period the section 80 amount shall be 5,604,835.50.
11 Special resolution That the authorities and powers conferred on the directors by article 11 of the articles of association of the company be renewed for the period ending on the date of the AGM in 2009 and that for such period the section 89 amount shall be 840,725.
12 Special resolution That the company be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 12p each provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased shall be 13,451,605 ordinary shares: b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the nominal value of the ordinary shares at the time of purchase: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be 105% of the average of the closing price of the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: and d the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2009, except in relation to the purchase of shares pursuant to contracts entered into before such expiry whose execution may be wholly or partly after such expiry.
13 Special resolution That the regulations contained in the document marked A submitted to the AGM and initialled for the purposes of identication by the chairman be approved and adopted as the new articles of association of the company, in substitution for and to the exclusion of the existing articles of association with effect from 1 October 2008.
14 Special resolution That the regulations contained in the document marked B submitted to the AGM and initialled for the purposes of identication by the chairman be approved and adopted as the new memorandum of association of the company, in substitution for and to the exclusion of the existing memorandum of association with effect from the end of this AGM.
By order of the board Registered ofce: Westgate Brewery Lindsay Keswick Bury St Edmunds Company Secretary Suffolk IP33 1QT 2 July 2008 GREENE KING PLC 83 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Other information Notice of meeting Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Resolution 10 This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors to allot securities in the company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,604,835.50, representing approximately 33.3% excluding any shares held in treasury of the issued ordinary share capital as at 1 July 2008, until the date of the AGM in 2009.
The directors consider that this authority is desirable to allow the company to retain exibility, although they have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 11 This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors to dis-apply pre-emption rights and allot equity securities for cash in connection with a rights issue and otherwise and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury see below up to an aggregate nominal amount of 840,725, being approximately 5% of the ordinary share capital in issue at 1 July 2008, until the date of the AGM in 2009.
Resolution 12 This resolution seeks to renew shareholders authority for the company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares, up to a maximum of 13,451,605 ordinary shares, as permitted by article 8 of the articles of association until the date of the AGM in 2009.
This represents 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 1 July 2008 excluding shares held in treasury and the companys exercise of this authority is subject to the stated upper and lower limits on the price payable which reect the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The directors will only take advantage of this authority to purchase and cancel shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benets for shareholders generally.
The authority will only be used after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the company.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 1985 as amended, the company can hold any shares which are repurchased as treasury shares and either re-sell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the company to have this choice.
Holding the repurchased shares as treasury shares will give the company the ability to re-sell or transfer them in the future and will provide the company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are subsequently re-sold or transferred out of treasury.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the company will not, save in accordance with a pre-determined, irrevocable and non-discretionary programme, repurchase shares in the period of two months immediately preceding the preliminary announcement of its annual or interim results or, if shorter, between the end of the financial period concerned and the time of a relevant announcement or, except in accordance with the Listing Rules, at any other time when, in terms of the model code, the directors would be prohibited from dealing in shares.
The full exercise of all options outstanding at the date of this report would require the issue of 5,110,438 ordinary shares.
This represents 3.8% of the current issued share capital excluding any shares held in treasury and 4.2% of what the share capital would be if the proposed authority to purchase the companys own shares had been obtained and exercised in full.
The company has issued no warrants to subscribe for share capital.
Resolution 13 It is proposed in this resolution to adopt new articles of association the new articles with effect from 1 October 2008 in order to update the companys current articles of association the current articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 and to update the provisions in the articles to take account of the changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004, as amended by the Companies Act 2006, relating to the indemnification of directors against liability and to the funding of directors defence costs in proceedings.
The Companies Act 2006 is being implemented in phases with the final phase coming into force on 1 October 2009.
Accordingly, further changes may be proposed at next years AGM, following full implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the new articles are summarised in the Appendix.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted in the Appendix.
Copies of the current articles and the new articles showing all changes to the current articles are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered ofce of the company until the date of the AGM or upon request from the company secretary.
Copies will also be available at least 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
Resolution 14 It is proposed in this resolution to adopt a new memorandum of association the new memorandum with effect from the end of the AGM, in order to update the companys current memorandum of association the current memorandum to include a new objects clause which takes account of the changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004, as amended by the Companies Act 2006, giving the company the power to provide directors with funds to meet expenditure on defending themselves against criminal or civil proceedings.
Copies of the current memorandum of association and the new memorandum of association showing all the changes to the current memorandum of association are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered ofce of the company until the date of the AGM or upon request from the company secretary.
GREENE KING PLC 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Appendix Explanatory note of principal changes to the companys articles of association.
1 Articles which duplicate statutory provisions Provisions in the current articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general meetings.
The main changes made to reect this approach are detailed below.
2 Form of resolution The current articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special resolution or extraordinary resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended as the concept of extraordinary resolution has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
3 Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings The provisions in the current articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
4 Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands as well as on a poll whereas under the current articles, proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that the articles cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may also be appointed.
The new articles reect all of these new provisions.
5 Conict of interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties, which largely codify the existing law, but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the companys interests.
This requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conicts and potential conicts, where appropriate, where the articles contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The new articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and include other provisions to allow conicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when the directors decide whether to authorise a conict or potential conict.
Firstly, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and secondly, in taking the decision, the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is also proposed that the new articles should contain provisions relating to condential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a director from being in breach of duty, if a conict of interest or potential conict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conict has previously been authorised by the board.
It is the boards intention to report annually on the companys procedures for ensuring that the boards powers to authorise conicts are operated effectively.
6 Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 introduced various changes into the Companies Act 1985 in relation to the indemnification of directors against liability and to the funding of directors defence costs in proceedings.
In particular, it has enabled a company to indemnify a director by means of a qualifying third-party indemnity provision and to pay directors defence costs even if the action is brought by the company itself provided that the director repays his defence costs to the company if any defence proves to be unsuccessful.
The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In particular, a company that is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify a director against liability incurred in connection with the companys activities as trustee of the scheme.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose if funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to directors of associated companies.
These changes are reected in the new articles.
A new objects clause has also been added to the memorandum of association of the company giving the company the power to provide directors with funds to meet expenditure on defending themselves against criminal or civil proceedings.
7 General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the new articles and in some areas to conform the language of the new articles.
GREENE KING PLC 85 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Other information Notice of meeting Notes 1 A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to attend and speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
To appoint more than one proxy, please photocopy the form of proxy indicating on each copy the name of the person you wish to appoint, the number of shares in respect of which the proxy is appointed over and the way in which you wish them to vote on the resolutions that are to be proposed.
Please also indicate by ticking the box on the proxy form if you intend to appoint more than one proxy.
All forms should be returned together to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
2 A form of proxy is enclosed.
The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from subsequently attending and voting at the meeting in person.
3 To be effective the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of attorney under which it is signed or duly certied copy of any such power of authority must be sent to the companys registrar, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU, so as to arrive not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
4 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the company in accordance with the provisions of section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated persons should contact the member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
5 Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the company.
The total number of issued ordinary shares in the company on 1 July 2008, which is the latest practicable date before the publication of this document is 135,490,032.
On a vote by show of hands every member who is present has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote has one vote.
On a poll vote every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share of which he is the holder.
6 Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast at the meeting, will be determined by reference to the companys register of members at 12 noon on Sunday 31 August 2008, or, if the meeting is adjourned, 48 hours before the time xed for the adjourned meeting.
In each case, changes to the register after such time will be disregarded.
7 Employees participating in the Greene King Free4All profit share scheme can instruct the trustees to vote on their behalf by completing the form of direction.
8 Copies of the executive directors service agreements and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection from the date of despatch of this notice until the date of the AGM at the registered ofce of the company at any time during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays and will also be available for inspection at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk from 10.00am on the day of the meeting until its conclusion.
9 Short biographical details of the directors standing for election or re-election can be found on pages 24 and 25 of the annual report.
10 This year the company is again offering shareholders the opportunity to record a proxy vote electronically.
Certicated shareholders who would like to vote online may do so by visiting the shareholder portal, www.
com, and following the instructions.
If you have not previously registered you will need to insert your Investor Code, your family name and postcode as shown on the enclosed proxy form before you are able to vote.
In addition, the company would like you to take the opportunity to register your email address for future communications.
If your shares are held electronically via CREST, you may register your votes via your usual CREST link following established CREST procedures.
In both cases, instructions should be received by 12 noon on Sunday 31 August 2008.
11 In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy, the revocation of a proxy appointment or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Capita Registrars ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in note 3 above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Capita Registrars is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to him by other means.
12 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
GREENE KING PLC 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 13 The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
14 Except as provided above, shareholders who wish to communicate with the company in relation to the AGM should do so by writing to the company secretary at the registered ofce address or to the registrars, whose details are provided on page 88.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of meeting or in any related documents to communicate with the company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
15 Shareholders should note that, on a request made by shareholders of the company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting for the financial year beginning 5 May 2008: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the company appointed for the financial year beginning 5 May 2008 ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting for the relevant financial year includes any statement that the company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
16 In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place so that i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
GREENE KING PLC 87 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08
