Management and governance Directors statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the group financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group financial statements, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU.
The directors are required to prepare group financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the group and the financial performance and cash ows of the group for that period.
In preparing those group financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance: and state that the group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the parent company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors responsibility statement The directors confirm, to the best of their knowledge: that these financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company and the group: and that the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the position of the company and the group, and a description of the risks and uncertainties faced.
The directors of Greene King plc are listed on pages 24 and 25.
T J W Bridge R Anand Director Director GREENE KING PLC 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08
