1 10 08 1 7 08 1 4 08 1 1 08 1 10 07 1 7 07 1 4 07 1 1 07 1 10 06 1 7 06 1 4 06 1 1 06 1 10 05 1 7 05 1 4 05 1 1 05 1 10 04 1 7 04 1 4 04 1 1 04 Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-executive directors Non-executive directors Performance graph In order to ensure that no director is involved in deciding his her own remuneration, the fees payable to non-executive directors other than the Chairman The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return for are set, after consultation with the Chairman, by a committee of the Board consisting only of executive directors Mike Darrington Ken McMeikan, Richard Company.
However, each of them does have a letter of appointment.
the Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the Hutton and Raymond Reynolds who periodically seek advice from external consultants as to the appropriate market rates applicable.
Such advice was These are dated 25 February 2002 for Derek Netherton, 1 December 2003 total shareholder return for the companies comprised in the FTSE Mid obtained in 2008 from Monks Partnership.
for Bob Bennett, 19 June 2008 for Mike Darrington, 1 March 2005 for Julie 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts and the FTSE 350 excluding Baddeley and 21 February 2008 for Roger Whiteside respectively.
The fees payable to the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee after taking advice from Monks Partnership.
terms of appointment of each non-executive director require that they These indices were chosen for this comparison because they include Policy on Performance Conditions seek re-election on a regular basis in accordance with the Articles of companies of broadly similar size to the Company.
Association of the Company see above.
The fees payable to the nonThe performance conditions attaching to share options granted to the executive directors under the Companys Senior Executive Share Option Schemes executive directors cover all normal duties.
In exceptional circumstances, have varied according to the date of grant.
Such conditions are set by the Committee to establish challenging performance objectives linked to where significant additional time commitment is required, the Board or a shareholder return.
Executive directors are not eligible to have executive share options granted in the same year as participation in the LTIP.
The Committee duly authorised committee may award additional fees.
No right of 250 intends that if any executive share options are granted in the future, performance conditions will continue to be settled on this basis.
Details of the compensation exists where the office is terminated, for whatever reason.
performance conditions for options currently outstanding are set out in the section headed Share Options below.
200 Whether performance conditions attached to share options have been met is tested by the Committee, which compares the actual performance of the Company with relevant published statistics and, if necessary, obtains advice from external consultants in order to reach its conclusion.
150 No performance conditions have been attached to options granted pursuant to the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is available 100 for all employees.
The principal purpose of this scheme is to encourage employees at all levels within the Company to participate in, and to understand better, the growth in value of the Company and the rules of that scheme require that all options granted must be on the same terms.
50 Performance criteria in relation to the performance based annual cash bonuses payable to the executive directors are set by the Committee each year in accordance with the general remuneration policy set out above.
Given the low level of bonus payments for 2008, the Committee will not offer participation 0 in the LTIP in 2009.
Instead it proposes to grant options to a number of senior executives in the Company including Ken McMeikan, Richard Hutton and Raymond Reynolds pursuant to the Companys Senior Executive Share Option Schemes.
FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts FTSE Mid 250 excluding Investment Trusts Greggs plc Policy on Service Contract Notice Periods and Payments on Early Termination The Companys policy on the duration of directors contracts is that: the Chief Executive should have a service contract terminable on one years notice served by either the Company or the directo r: other existing executive directors should have service contracts terminable on one years notice served by the Company or by s ix months notice served by the director: future executive directors will be engaged on terms necessary to secure individuals of appropriate calibre, having regard to p revailing market conditions at that time: non-executive directors are appointed subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which require them to retire and to se ek re-election at the first AGM after appointment.
Any non-executive director who has served on the Board for over nine years must seek re-election annually.
One half of the remaining directors, being those who have been longest in office since last re-election, and any other director who has not been elected or re-elected at either of the two preceding AGMs, must retire and seek re-election.
The Nominations Committee advises the Board as to whether a particular director, whose turn it is to retire by rotation, should be nominated for re-election.
The policy on termination payments for executive directors is that the Company does not normally make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in respect of notice to which a director is entitled.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to compensation for early termination of their appointments prior to the date on which they would next be due to retire by rotation, or if not re-appointed at such time.
Directors service contracts Details of the directors service contracts or letters of appointment are as follows: Executive Directors Ken McMeikan has a service contract with the Company dated 8 April 2008.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1 June 2008.
Richard Hutton has a service contract with the Company dated 7 April 2006.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1 January 1998.
Raymond Reynolds has a service contract with the Company dated 18 December 2006.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 1 December 1986.
In addition to their basic salaries, each is entitled to participate in the Companys profit sharing scheme available to all employees.
They are also entitled to additional benefits including membership of the company pension scheme, the use of a motor car, private medical insurance, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 74 75
