Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts Auditors Disclosure of information to auditors The directors are responsible for preparing Under applicable law and regulations, the Auditor Independence and policy on the the annual report and the accounts, in directors are also responsible for preparing Each of the directors who held office at use of the auditors for non-audit work accordance with applicable law and a directors report, Directors Remuneration the date of approval of this directors regulations.
report and Corporate Governance The Audit Committee has reviewed report confirms that, so far as he she is statement that comply with that law and whether, and is satisfied that, the individually aware, there is no relevant Company law requires the directors to those regulations.
Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, audit information of which the Companys prepare Group and Parent Company continue to be objective and independent auditors are unaware: and that he she has accounts for each financial year.
Under The directors are responsible for the of the Company.
KPMG Audit Plc does taken all the steps that he she ought to that law they are required to prepare the maintenance and integrity of the corporate perform non-audit services for the Group have taken as a director to make Group accounts in accordance with IFRSs and financial information included on the but the Audit Committee is satisfied that himself herself aware of any relevant audit as adopted by the EU and applicable law Companys website.
Legislation in the its objectivity is not impaired by such work information and to establish that the and have elected to prepare the Parent UK governing the preparation and non-audit fees amounted to 71,000 Companys auditors are aware of that Company accounts on the same basis.
dissemination of accounts may differ during 2008 and related to taxation information.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Group and Parent Company accounts compliance services and pensions In accordance with Section 384 of the are required by law and by IFRSs as The directors confirm that to the best of advice.
The Audit Committee's policy, to Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the adopted by the EU to present fairly the their knowledge: ensure that the auditor's objectivity is not re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as financial position of the Group and Parent the accounts, prepared in accordance impaired by non-audit work, is that the auditors of the Company will be proposed Company and the performance for that with the applicable set of accounting Company should not use the auditors for at the forthcoming Annual General period: the Companies Act 1985 provides standards, give a true and fair view of more than 100,000 per year work of Meeting.
in relation to such accounts that references the assets, liabilities, financial position non-audit work inclusive of tax in the relevant part of that Act to accounts and profit of the Company and the compliance advice.
Any fees in excess of giving a true and fair view are references undertakings included in the this must be discussed in advance with By order of the Board to their achieving a fair presentation.
consolidation taken as a whole and: the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Andrew Davison, Secretary In preparing each of the Group and The Companys internal audit function Fernwood House, Clayton Road, the directors report, which incorporates Parent Company accounts, the directors assists in the monitoring of systems of Jesmond, the Chairmans statement, the Chief are required to: control and augments the examination Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 1TL Executives report and the Corporate carried out by the external auditors.
select suitable accounting policies and and Social Responsibility statement Greggs plc CRN 502851 then apply them consistently: include a fair review of the development 10 March 2009 and performance of the business and make judgements and estimates that the position of the Company and the are reasonable and prudent: undertakings included in the state whether they have been consolidation taken as a whole, together prepared in accordance with IFRSs as with a description of the principal risks adopted by the EU: and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 36 37
