Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 Substantial shareholdings Authority to purchase shares served notice under section 793 1 of which includes all directors and those subject to the provisions of any relevant the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 or likely to have access to inside statutes and the Company's articles of At 10 March 2009, the only notified At the AGM on 13 May 2008, the if the shareholder has failed to reply to information may in certain association and to such regulations as holdings of substantial voting rights in shareholders passed a resolution a duly served notice requiring him to circumstances be restricted as to when may be prescribed by the Company respect of the issued share capital of the authorising the purchase by the Company provide a written statement stating he they can transfer shares in the Company.
of its own shares to a maximum of Company were: is the beneficial owner of shares.
There are no agreements between Under the Companies Act 1985 and That authority has been used as to Number of Percentage of A notice convening a general meeting shareholders known to the Company the Company's articles of association, shares held issued share capital 236,044 shares as at 27 December 2008. can contain a statement that a which may result in restrictions on the the directors' powers include the power The balance remains in force until the shareholder is not entitled to attend transfer of shares or on voting rights.
to allot and buyback shares in the Aberforth Partners LLP 1,038,389 9.99% conclusion of the AGM in 2009 or 12 Company.
At each Annual General and vote at a general meeting unless Details of the significant holders of the A. J. Davison August 2009, whichever is the earlier.
Meeting, resolutions are proposed his name is entered on the register of Company's shares are set out on page as trustee of various settlements 769,114 7.40% setting out the limits on these powers.
members of the Company at a specific 34. time not more than 48 hours before Schroders plc 572,418 5.50% The Company is not party to any Additional information Where, under an employee share plan the meeting and if a shareholders significant agreements which take effect, F&C Asset Management 557,572 5.36% operated by the Company, participants name is not so entered he is not Following the implementation of the alter or terminate upon a change of are the beneficial owners of shares but entitled to attend and vote.
Baillie Gifford & Co 520,071 5.00% European Directive on Takeover Bids by control of the Company, following a not the registered owner, the voting certain provisions of the Companies Act takeover bid.
Under the Company's articles of Legal and General Investment rights are normally exercised by the 2006, the Company is required to association the directors may, in their Management Limited 413,924 3.98% registered owner at the direction of the There are no agreements between the disclose certain additional information in absolute discretion, refuse to register participant.
Company and its directors or employees Prudential Group of companies 401,827 3.86% the directors report.
This information is the transfer of a share in certified form providing for compensation for loss of set out below.
The Company's articles of association F. K. Deakin 345,434 3.32% in certain circumstances where the office or employment whether through may only be amended by special Company has a lien on the share The Company has one class of share resignation, purported redundancy or F. M. E. Nicholson 325,434 3.13% resolution at a general meeting of the in issue being ordinary shares of 20p provided that the directors do not otherwise that occurs because of a shareholders.
As at 10 March 2009, there were exercise their discretion so as to takeover bid.
Details of the directors' 10,399,047 such ordinary shares in prevent dealings in partly paid shares The Company's articles of association service agreements and terms of Each of F. K. Deakin and F. M. E. issue.
There are no shares in the from taking place on an open and set out how directors are appointed appointment are set out in the Directors Nicholson holds 245,434 shares jointly Company that grant the holder special proper basis, where a shareholder and replaced.
Directors can be Remuneration report on pages 71 to 80. with A. J. Davison as trustees of various rights with regard to control of the has failed to reply to a duly served appointed by the Board or by the However, provisions in the employee settlements within the numbers noted Company.
notice under section 793 1 CA 2006 shareholders in a general meeting.
At share plans operated by the Company above.
Various other trustees jointly hold or if a transfer of a share is in favour of each Annual General Meeting, any may allow options to be exercised on At general meetings of the Company, shares with A. J. Davison above, some of more than four persons jointly.
In director appointed by the Board since a takeover.
on a show of hands every shareholder whom, by reason of such joint holdings addition, the directors may decline to the last Annual General Meeting plus a present in person or by proxy has one and other holdings in their own name, recognise any instrument of transfer proportion of the other directors must vote only and, in the case of a poll, have declarable interests as follows: K. C. unless it is in respect of only one class retire from office but each is eligible for Payments to Suppliers every shareholder present in person or McCann 3.16% jointly held with A. J. of share and is deposited at the re-election by the shareholders.
Under by proxy has one vote for every share Good relationships with our suppliers Davison and others and N. A. Bailey address at which the register of the CA 2006 and the Company's in the capital of the Company held by are an important factor in the success of 3.16% jointly held with A. J. Davison and members of the Company is held or articles of association, a director can him.
Payments to suppliers are others.
at such other place as the directors be removed from office by the made in accordance with the Groups The Company's articles of association may determine accompanied by the shareholders in a general meeting.
normal terms and conditions of business set out the circumstances in which relevant share certificate s and such The Company's articles of association except where varied terms and conditions shares may become disenfranchised.
other evidence as the directors may set out the powers of the directors.
are agreed with individual suppliers, in No shareholder is entitled, unless the reasonably require to show the right of The business of the Company is to be which case these prevail.
Where disputes directors otherwise determine in the transferor to make the transfer.
In managed by the directors who may respect of any share held by him, to be arise, we attempt to resolve them respect of shares held in uncertificated exercise all the powers of the Company present or to vote at a general meeting promptly and amicably to ensure delays form the directors may only refuse to and do on behalf of the Company all either personally or by proxy or to in payment are kept to a minimum.
register transfers in accordance with exercise any other right in relation to such acts as may be exercised and the Uncertificated Securities Regulations The average creditor payment period for meetings of the Company in respect done by the Company and are not by 2001 as amended from time to time.
the Company and the Group at 27 of that share in certain circumstances any relevant statutes or by the December 2008 was 33 days 2007 - 39 if any call or other sum is payable and Under the Company's Code on dealings Company's articles of association days.
remains unpaid, if the shareholder is in in securities in the Company, persons required to be exercised or done by default in complying with a duly discharging managerial responsibilities the Company in general meeting, Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 34 35
