Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued 2.
Profit before tax Currency Risk Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting 2008 2007 Following the decision to exit from the Belgian operation the Group will have no regular transactions in foreign currency although there may be occasional 000 000 purchases, mainly of capital items, denominated in foreign currency.
Whilst certain costs such as electricity and wheat can be influenced by movements in the US dollar, actual contracts are priced in sterling.
In respect of those key costs which are volatile, such as electricity and flour, the price may be fixed for Depreciation on owned property, plant and equipment 26,010 24,548 a period of time in line with Group policy.
All such contracts are for the Groups own expected usage.
Profit on disposal of fixed assets including disposal of properties - note 4 771 1,951 Interest rate Release of government grants 84 16 The Group has low exposure to interest rate risk.
Interest only arises on its bank deposits and overdrafts.
Net financial income in the year was 857,000.
Payments under operating leases - property rents 38,935 36,718 Equity prices Auditors remuneration The Group has no equity investments other than its subsidiaries.
Audit of these accounts 178 165 Capital Management Audit of subsidiaries accounts pursuant to legislation - 5 The Board defines capital as the equity of the Group.
The Group remains net cash positive with funding requirements met by cash generated from retail Other services pursuant to such legislation 3 7 operations.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to enable successful future development of the business.
The Boards policy on dividend levels is to progressively and prudently reduce dividend cover.
There are no externally Audit of pension schemes accounts 9 11 imposed capital requirements and there were no changes to the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Other services relating to taxation 58 54 The Board will continue to consider purchasing its own shares on the market dependent on market prices and surplus cash levels.
The trustees of the All other services 4 16 Greggs Employment Benefit Trust also purchase shares for future satisfaction of employee share options.
The Board is proposing a ten for one share split in order to make the Companys shares more accessible and appealing, particularly to small shareholders the Companys own employees.
This is subject Amounts paid to the Companys auditor in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Companys accounts, have not been disclosed to the approval of shareholders at the AGM on 13 May.
as the information is required instead to be presented on a consolidated basis.
Exceptional items Group and Parent Company The following items have been presented separately on the face of the consolidated income statement in order to show separately the underlying trading performance of the Group: All the Groups surplus cash is invested as cash placed on deposit.
Profit on disposal of properties The Groups treasury policy has as its principal objective the achievement of the maximum rate of return on cash balances whilst maintaining an acceptable level of risk.
Other than mentioned below there are no financial instruments, derivatives or commodity contracts used.
During 2008 the Company had a profit on disposal of properties of 1,064,000, principally relating to the disposal of a freehold development site in Scotland.
Financial assets and liabilities During 2007 the Company disposed of bakery sites in Newcastle upon Tyne, Glasgow and Manchester together with several freehold shops.
The profit arising on disposal of properties of 2,193,000 principally related to the sale of the redundant Carricks bakery site in Newcastle.
The other bakery disposals The Groups main financial asset comprises cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial assets include trade receivables arising from the Groups activities.
were linked to the relocation to improved facilities in Scotland and the North West.
Other than trade and other payables, the Group had no financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 as at 27 December 2008 2007: nil.
Curtailment of defined benefit pension scheme Fair values An exceptional credit of 6,969,000 has arisen on the curtailment of the defined benefit scheme following a change in the calculation assumptions.
The The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is not materially different from their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities comprise scheme is now closed as regards the accrual of future benefits and the assumptions regarding future payments increases have therefore been changed principally of trade receivables and trade payables and the only interest bearing balances are the bank deposits and borrowings which attract interest at from being salary based to inflation based.
Restructuring costs Interest rate, credit and foreign currency risk A one-off restructuring charge of 3,715,000 was taken in 2008 which reflects our expected exit costs from our Belgian operation, the costs of closing two The Group has not entered into any hedging transactions during the year and considers interest rate, credit and foreign currency risks not to be significant.
Bakers Oven shops in January 2009 which were not suitable for conversion to Greggs, and an increase in previously disclosed provisions for the restructuring of Bakers Oven in the North and Scotland to reflect the worsening property market.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 48 49
