Notes to the Consolidated Accounts Significant accounting policies Greggs plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Group accounts consolidate those of the Company and its The preparation of financial information in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company accounts present information about the Company as a separate entity and not affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are about its Group.
reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.
The accounts were authorised for issue by the directors on 10 March 2009.
The key estimates and judgements that have the most significant impact on the accounts are as follows: a Statement of compliance Lease classification Both the Parent Company accounts and the Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under Judgement has to be applied as to whether the Groups shop leases are operating leases or finance leases see note 23 for how this is determined.
On publishing the Parent Company accounts here together with the Group accounts, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s230 of Post retirement benefits the Companies Act 1985 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these approved accounts.
The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme depends on the selection of certain b Basis of preparation assumptions including the discount rate, inflation rate, mortality rates and expected return on scheme assets.
Differences arising from actual experience or The accounts are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand, and are prepared on the historical cost basis.
A minor presentational future changes in assumptions will be reflected in future years.
The key assumptions made for 2008 are given in note 20. change has been made to the income statement reallocating profit on sale of properties from cost of sales to other income.
There is no impact on net profit.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Directors report Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
and business review on pages 8 to 36.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the For example, bakery equipment may be impaired if it is no longer in use and or shop fittings may be impaired if sales in that shop fall.
When a review for Chief Executives report on pages 13 to 17.
In addition note 2 to the accounts includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its impairment is conducted the recoverable amount is determined based on value in use calculations which include managements estimates of future cash capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
flows generated by the assets and an appropriate discount rate.
The Group has considerable financial resources and the business continues to be strongly cash generative.
As a consequence, the directors believe that Depreciation of property, plant and equipment the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Depreciation is provided so as to write down the assets to the residual values over their estimated useful lives, both of which require managements After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational judgement see accounting policy g. existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Provisions The Group chose not to restate business combinations prior to the transition date on an IFRS basis, as no significant acquisitions had taken place during the previous 10 years.
The Groups policy up to and including 1997 was to eliminate goodwill arising upon acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 and Provision is required in respect of closed shops for which the Group has on-going lease commitments.
Management exercise judgement as to whether the IFRS 3, such goodwill remains eliminated against reserves.
shop will be sublet to a third party taking into account current market conditions and, if so, for how long and at what rent, in order to estimate the future net holding cost to the Group until the lease can be exited.
This estimate is then discounted where the impact would be material at a rate that reflects the The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the Group and to all years presented in these consolidated accounts and current time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
In respect of our exit from the Belgian operation estimates have been made of the costs of are unchanged from previous years.
A minor presentational change has been made to the income statement reallocating profit on sale of properties from exiting from our shops there, and the consideration that we might receive in respect of assigning the leases.
Any adjustment to our estimate will be cost of sales to other income.
As a result the comparative figures for 2007 have been restated as follows gross profit has reduced from 367.6m to included in the 2009 accounts.
365.4m, and other income has increased from nil to 2.2m.
From 1 January 2008 the following standards, amendments and interpretations became effective and were adopted by the Group: c Basis of consolidation IFRIC 10 Interim financial reporting and impairment The consolidated accounts include the results of Greggs plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008.
The comparative period is the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2007.
IFRIC 11 Group and treasury share transactions i Subsidiaries IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Instruments operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The accounts of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts from The adoption of the above has not had a significant impact on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
the date control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
d Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as items of income and expenditure which are material and unusual in nature and which are considered to be of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1. e Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 42 43
