Notes to the Consolidated Accounts continued Significant accounting policies continued p Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
i Restructuring A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related deferred tax benefit will A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has be realised.
commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
v IFRSs available for early adoption not yet applied ii Closed shops The following standards and amendments to standards which will be relevant to the Group, were available for early adoption but have not been applied in Provision is made for vacant and partly sublet properties for the shorter of the remaining period of the lease and the period until, in the directors opinion, these accounts: they will be able to exit the lease commitment.
Significant assumptions are applied in making these calculations and such provisions are assessed by reference to the best available information at the balance sheet date.
IFRS 8: Operating Segments applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009: q Revenue IFRIC 14: IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. i Goods sold Amendments to IAS 23: Borrowing costs applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised as income on receipt of cash and is stated after deduction of discounts, promotions and value added taxation.
Amendments to IFRS 2: Share based payment applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. r Government grants Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements applicable to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Government grants are recognised in the balance sheet initially as deferred income when there is a reasonable assurance that they will be received and These standards amendments are not currently expected to have a significant impact on the accounts when they are adopted.
that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them.
Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised in the income All other amendments to standards and interpretations that are available for early adoption currently have no impact for the Group.
statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in the income statement over the useful life of the asset.
Segment analysis s Expenses Business is the basis of the Groups primary segmentation.
The Group operates in one business segment being the retailing of sandwiches, savouries and other bakery related products.
As a result no additional business segment information is required to be provided.
The Groups secondary segment is i Operating lease payments geography.
It operates in one geographical segment, the United Kingdom.
Payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Financial Risk Management are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
Credit Risk t Finance income and expense Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
i Finance income Trade and other receivables Finance income comprises interest receivable on cash balances and foreign exchange movements relating to overseas bank accounts.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues using the effective interest method.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is considered not to be significant as sale of goods is for cash.
Other receivables are primarily prepaid rent and rates as well as amounts owed from HM Revenue & Customs in respect of VAT.
The credit risk on remaining other receivables and trade receivables is therefore ii Finance expenses not considered significant.
Finance expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings and related foreign exchange movements on our Euro bank borrowings.
Counterparty risk is also considered low.
All of the Groups surplus cash is held with highly rated banks, in line with Group policy.
u Income tax Liquidity Risk Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
The Group operates with net current liabilities because all sales are for cash and limited stocks are held given their perishable nature.
It is therefore reliant on Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and the continued strong performance of the retail portfolio to meet its short term liabilities.
Any increase in short term liquidity risk can be mitigated by reducing any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
In the longer term the Group remains cash positive, and if necessary would be able to obtain substantial debt funding.
Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and The Group has overdraft facilities of 5,000,000 and 3,000,000 of which 3,563,000 and 2,019,000 was undrawn at 27 December 2008 2007: 20,000,000. liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary Market Risk differences reverse, based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the Temporary differences relating to the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit are not provided for, other than value of its holdings of financial instruments.
Given that market risk is not significant, sensitivity analysis would not be meaningful.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 46 47
