14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 60 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors confirm that they have complied with the Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the above requirements in preparing the financial Group and the Company financial statements in statements.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounting records that disclose with reasonable financial statements for each financial year.
Under that accuracy at any time the financial position of the law the Directors have prepared the Group financial Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure statements in accordance with International Financial that the Group financial statements comply with the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS European Union, and the Company financial Regulation and the Company financial statements and statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Company financial statements are required by law to prevention and detection of fraud and other give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the irregularities.
Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the In preparing those financial statements, the Directors United Kingdom governing the preparation and are required to: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the Board make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Alex Henderson state that the Group financial statements comply Company Secretary with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the Company financial statements 4 June 2007 that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the Group and Company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
60 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149
