BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT Other statutory information Activities approximately 0.4% of the issued share capital of the Company Halma p. l. c. is a holding company.
A list of its principal subsidiary excluding treasury shares as at that date.
companies and their activities is set out on pages 88 and 89.
The Companies Act 1985 also requires that, if the Company issues new Ordinary dividends shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must first offer them to The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 4.55p per share and, existing shareholders in proportion to their current holdings.
At the Annual if approved, this dividend will be paid on 20 August 2008 to ordinary General Meeting a special resolution will be proposed which, if passed, shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 July 2008. will authorise the Directors to issue a limited number of shares for cash Together with the interim dividend of 3p per share already paid, this and or sell treasury shares without offering them to shareholders first.
will make a total of 7.55p 2007: 7.18p per share for the financial year.
The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of up to 5% of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as Share capital and capital structure at 17 June 2008 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Details of share capital issued in the financial year are set out in note 21 Notice of meeting.
The resolution will also modify statutory pre-emption to the accounts.
rights to deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may arise Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details on a rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
The authority will expire of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year at the same time as the resolution conferring authority on the Directors are shown in note 21 to the accounts.
The Company has one class of to allot shares.
The Directors consider this authority necessary in order to ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
Each share carries give them exibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions contained in the resolution.
other classes of share capital.
There are no present plans to issue shares, except under share plans There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer previously approved in general meeting.
of shares, with both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Directors Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any The Directors of the Company are listed on page 37.
Brief biographies agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in are set out on pages 36 and 37. restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
E Jane Aikman was appointed a Director on 1 August 2007 and Shares held in treasury are non-voting and are not eligible for dividends.
Adam J Meyers was appointed a Director on 3 April 2008.
Having Details of employee share plans are set out in note 23 to the accounts.
been appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting, No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share both are proposed for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Kevin Thompson, Neil Quinn, Geoff Unwin and Andrew Williams all With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, For each Director being re-elected at the Annual General Meeting, the the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may Board confirms that, following formal performance evaluations, each be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of individuals performance continues to be effective and they continue directors are described in the Matters reserved for the Board, copies to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
of which are available on request, and the Corporate governance statement on page 39.
Purchase of own shares The Company was authorised at the 2007 annual general meeting to Under its Articles of Association, the Company has authority to issue purchase up to 37,000,000 of its own 10p ordinary shares in the market.
436,564,890 ordinary shares of which 374,796,280, including treasury This authority expires at the end of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
In shares, are in issue as at the date of this Report.
accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual renewal, There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate a special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to upon a change of control of the Company, principally bank loan renew this authority, until the end of next years annual general meeting, agreements and employee share plans.
in respect of up to 37,000,000 ordinary shares, which is approximately 10% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares The only significant agreement, in terms of its likely impact on the as at 17 June 2008 the latest practicable date prior to the publication business of the Group as a whole, containing such provisions is that of the Notice of meeting.
The Directors consider it desirable that the governing the 165m revolving credit facility which on change of control, possibility of making such purchases, under appropriate circumstances, if the majority lenders require, can result in 30 days notice being given to is available.
Their present intention is that the shares purchased under the Company for all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and the authority will to the extent statutory requirements are met be held in payable at which time the facility would be cancelled.
treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash or transfer for the purposes The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which of, or pursuant to, an employee share plan, although in the light of options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change circumstances at the time it may be decided to cancel them immediately of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most purposes, while held in treasury The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company shares are treated as if they have been cancelled for example, they and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss carry no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Following approval of the performance share plan PSP at the 2005 Allotment authority annual general meeting, the Directors made, and intend to continue Under the Companies Act 1985 the Directors may only allot shares if to make, routine purchases of Halma shares in the market for holding authorised by shareholders to do so.
At the Annual General Meeting an in treasury until required for vesting under the PSP.
In the year to ordinary resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise the 29 March 2008, 774,000 shares were purchased in the market for Directors to allot and issue new shares up to an aggregate nominal treasury.
Otherwise, the Directors have no present intention of using this value of 6,176,861 up to 61,768,610 new ordinary shares of 10p each, authority.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares, the Directors will which is equal to approximately 14% of the issued share capital of the take into account the Companys cash resources, capital requirements Company excluding treasury shares as at 17 June 2008 the latest and the effect of any purchase on the Companys earnings per share.
practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of meeting.
In It is anticipated that renewal of the authority will be requested at accordance with the Directors stated intention to seek annual renewal, subsequent annual general meetings.
the authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company in 2009.
Passing this resolution will give the Directors As at 17 June 2008, which is the latest practicable date prior to the exibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when opportunities publication of the Notice of meeting, options were outstanding to arise, by issuing new shares.
subscribe for a total number of 8,050,849 ordinary shares, or 2.1% As at 17 June 2008 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of of the Companys issued share capital.
If this authority to purchase shares were used in full, the proportion of the adjusted issued share the Notice of meeting, the Company had 374,796,280 ordinary shares of 10p each in issue and held 1,563,813 treasury shares, which is equal to capital represented by this gure would be 2.4%.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 49
