DIRECTORS REPORT Other statutory information Directors responsibilities continued Deeds of indemnity The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, Directors Following amendment of the Companys Articles of Association at the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with annual general meeting in 2006, the Company has entered into deeds applicable law and regulations.
of indemnity, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for purpose of the Companies Act 1985, with each of the current Directors.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to Substitution of Articles of Association prepare the Group financial statements under IFRSs IFRSs as adopted by The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2008 Annual by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act General Meeting, a special resolution will be put to shareholders 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
proposing substitution of to the existing Articles of Association primarily International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial in order to accommodate the provisions of the new Companies Act 2006. statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial Amendment to performance share plan position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful The Companys performance share plan does not currently contain the representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions provision to grant tax efficient HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, share options.
Therefore, at the 2008 Annual General Meeting a liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting resolution will be put to shareholders proposing an amendment to Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of permit the granting of approved share options subject to approval financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will of the amendment by HMRC.
be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: Supplier payment policy The Company does not follow any particular supplier payment code properly select and apply accounting policies: of practice.
The Company has due regard to the payment terms of present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that suppliers and generally settles all undisputed accounts within 30 days provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable of the due date for payment.
At 29 March 2008 the Companys trade information: and creditors represented 31 days 2007: 37 days of its annual purchases.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic Donations requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the Group companies made charitable donations amounting to 11,000 impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 2007: 5,209 during the financial year.
There were no political entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial Substantial shareholdings statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted On 17 June 2008, the Company had been notied, in accordance with Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
Percentage of In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: No.
of voting rights ordinary and issued select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: shares share capital make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 22,317,670 5.98 state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Silchester International Investors Ltd 22,147,989 5.93 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Capital Research and Management Co 19,089,943 5.11 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that Barclays Bank PLC 15,724,354 4.21 disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company Legal & General Group Plc 15,076,072 4.04 financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also Sanderson Asset Management Ltd 15,075,762 4.04 responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual report confirms that: corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and other jurisdictions.
the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as Directors responsibility statement a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit We confirm to the best of our knowledge: information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in taken as a whole: and ofce as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
report includes a fair review of the development and performance of By order of the Board the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Carol Chesney By order of the Board Company Secretary 17 June 2008 Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Chief Executive Finance Director 17 June 2008 17 June 2008 50 www.
