qxp 27 3 09 22:46 Page 92 92 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Governance Annual report 2008 Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report We confirm to the best of our knowledge: and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance the financial statements, prepared in accordance with with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs and have also elected to prepare financial by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
financial position and profit or loss of the company and Company law requires the Directors to prepare such the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as financial statements in accordance with IFRSs, the a whole: and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
the business review, which is incorporated into the Directors International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial report, includes a fair review of the development and statements present fairly for each financial year the performance of the business and the position of the Company Companys financial position, financial performance and and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks effects of transactions, other events and condition in and uncertainties they face.
accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the By order of the Board International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will Said Darwazah Chief Executive officer be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
16 March 2009 Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
