Notes to the financial statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement Key sources of estimation uncertainty of compliance with IFRS The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant The Group and Company financial statements of HMV Group plc risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts for the period ended 26 April 2008 were authorised for issue by of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the the Board of Directors on 30 June 2008, and the balance sheets measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement were signed on the Boards behalf by Simon Fox and Neil Bright.
of defined benefit pension obligations.
The Group determines HMV Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
which the goodwill is allocated.
This involves estimation of future The financial statements of the Group and the Company cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate.
Measurement of have been prepared in accordance with International Financial defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable Companies Act 1985.
The principal accounting policies adopted discount rate.
by the Group and the Company are set out below.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption Basis of consolidation permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts publish its individual income statement and related notes.
of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting policies The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during a period are included from the date that effective control passed Basis of preparation or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its The income statement for the comparative period has been subsidiaries are made up to the Saturday on or immediately restated to reflect the disposal of the HMV Japan business, which preceding 30 April each year.
Consequently, the financial has been classified as a discontinued operation.
statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2008, whilst the comparative period covered the Investments in subsidiaries 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007.
The financial statements are In its separate financial statements, the Company recognises prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards its investments in subsidiaries at cost less impairments and specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set booked.
Income is recognised from these investments only in out below.
relation to distributions received from post-acquisition profits.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling Distributions received in excess of post-acquisition profits are and are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million except where deducted from the cost of the investment.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based Revenue payments and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
Revenue represents the value of goods supplied, less discounts The preparation of financial statements requires given, and is recognised when goods are delivered and title has management to make estimates and assumptions that affect passed.
It also includes commission earned on ticket sales and the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance similar activities.
Revenue excludes value added tax VAT and sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses similar sales-related taxes.
The nature of estimation means that actual Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to outcomes could differ from those estimates.
the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Rental income from sub-let properties is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the sublease.
47 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
