Notes to the financial statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement Key sources of estimation uncertainty of compliance with IFRS The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant The Group and Company financial statements of HMV Group plc risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts for the period ended 26 April 2008 were authorised for issue by of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the the Board of Directors on 30 June 2008, and the balance sheets measurement and impairment of goodwill and the measurement were signed on the Boards behalf by Simon Fox and Neil Bright.
of defined benefit pension obligations.
The Group determines HMV Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary shares an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
which the goodwill is allocated.
This involves estimation of future The financial statements of the Group and the Company cash flows and choosing a suitable discount rate.
Measurement of have been prepared in accordance with International Financial defined benefit pension obligations requires estimation of future Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European changes in salaries and inflation, as well as mortality rates, the Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the expected return on assets and the selection of a suitable Companies Act 1985.
The principal accounting policies adopted discount rate.
by the Group and the Company are set out below.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption Basis of consolidation permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 not to The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts publish its individual income statement and related notes.
of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting policies The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during a period are included from the date that effective control passed Basis of preparation or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its The income statement for the comparative period has been subsidiaries are made up to the Saturday on or immediately restated to reflect the disposal of the HMV Japan business, which preceding 30 April each year.
Consequently, the financial has been classified as a discontinued operation.
statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2008, whilst the comparative period covered the Investments in subsidiaries 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007.
The financial statements are In its separate financial statements, the Company recognises prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards its investments in subsidiaries at cost less impairments and specifically in accordance with the accounting policies set booked.
Income is recognised from these investments only in out below.
relation to distributions received from post-acquisition profits.
The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling Distributions received in excess of post-acquisition profits are and are rounded to the nearest tenth of a million except where deducted from the cost of the investment.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based Revenue payments and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
Revenue represents the value of goods supplied, less discounts The preparation of financial statements requires given, and is recognised when goods are delivered and title has management to make estimates and assumptions that affect passed.
It also includes commission earned on ticket sales and the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance similar activities.
Revenue excludes value added tax VAT and sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses similar sales-related taxes.
The nature of estimation means that actual Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to outcomes could differ from those estimates.
the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Rental income from sub-let properties is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the sublease.
47 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment The capitalised cost of property, plant and equipment includes Foreign currencies only those costs that are directly attributable to bringing an asset Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded to its working condition for its intended use.
at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transactions.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies on cost, at rates estimated to write off the cost, less the estimated are retranslated into Sterling at period end rates.
The resulting residual value, of the relevant assets by equal annual amounts foreign exchange differences are dealt with in the determination over their estimated useful lives.
of profit loss for the period.
The annual rates used are: On consolidation, average exchange rates are used to Leasehold improvements Period of the lease translate the results of overseas companies and businesses, and 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 to 33 % 3 the assets and liabilities of overseas companies and businesses are translated into Sterling at period-end rates.
Differences on The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed translation are recognised as a separate equity reserve, which for material impairment in periods if events or changes in was set to zero on transition to IFRS.
On disposal of an overseas circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
company or business, the cumulative exchange differences for Useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and where that entity are recognised in the income statement as part of the adjustments are required these are made prospectively.
profit or loss on disposal.
Leased assets Exceptional items In respect of property operating leases, benefits received and The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the receivable as an incentive to sign a lease, such as rent-free income statement those material items of income and expense periods, premiums payable and capital contributions, are spread which, because of the nature or expected infrequency of the on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
All other operating events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow lease payments are charged directly to the income statement on shareholders to better understand the elements of financial a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group has a number performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior of lease agreements in which the rent payable is contingent on periods and to better assess trends in financial performance.
revenue, which is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Exceptional items recognised in arriving at operating profit include Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group but are not limited to those costs associated with integrating a substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the leased newly acquired business, impairment losses and costs associated assets, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with a with restructuring the business.
corresponding liability being recognised for the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum Goodwill lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the The Group has utilised the exemption available in IFRS 1 reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income whereby IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the retrospectively to past business combinations.
Goodwill arising remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases on acquisitions prior to 25 April 1998 was set off directly against are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the reserves.
This goodwill has not been reinstated on the balance asset and the lease term.
sheet on the transition to IFRS.
Furthermore, it will not be transferred to the income statement if the subsidiary is disposed Intangible assets of or if the investment in the subsidiary becomes impaired.
Intangible assets are valued at cost and amortised over their Positive goodwill arising since 25 April 1998 is capitalised useful life unless the asset can be demonstrated to have an and classified as an asset on the balance sheet.
On transition to indefinite life.
Intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for IFRS, this goodwill was frozen at its carrying value on the date impairment if there is any indication that the carrying value may of transition, 25 April 2004, subject to impairment testing at that not be recoverable.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life date.
Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since the Groups are tested for impairment annually.
transition to IFRS is also capitalised, classified as an asset on the balance sheet and is not amortised.
Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
All capitalised goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
48 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 2.
Accounting policies continued Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of Impairment of assets assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there are reporting purposes.
indicators that an asset may be impaired.
Assets are grouped for Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which temporary differences and deferred income tax assets are there are identifiable cash inflows that are largely independent of recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will the cash inflows of other groups of assets cash-generating units.
be available against which the deductible temporary differences If any indicator of impairment exists, or when annual impairment can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax testing is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to the future cash inflows expected to be derived from the asset.
Where the asset does not generate cash inflows that are Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is estimated.
other than in a business combination of other assets and Where the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognised nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised for temporary If there is an indication at the reporting date that previously differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and recognised impairment losses no longer exist or may have branches, as the Group has determined that undistributed profits decreased, the recoverable amount is again estimated.
To the will not be distributed in the foreseeable future.
extent that the recoverable amount has increased, the previously Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at recognised impairment loss is reversed.
An impairment loss in the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset respect of goodwill is not reversed.
is realised or the liability settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet Inventories date, and is not discounted.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable Taxation is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to value on a first-in, first-out basis.
Net realisable value is based items that are themselves charged or credited directly to equity, on estimated selling prices less further costs to be incurred otherwise it is recognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against Taxation current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
49 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees granted Cash and cash equivalents on or after 7 November 2002, which had not vested by 1 January Cash and short-term deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand 2005, is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over or less.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits less employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is bank overdrafts that are payable on demand.
determined by using an appropriate pricing model.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative Interest bearing loans and borrowings expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised period has expired and managements best estimate of the at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs and are achievement or otherwise of non-market performance conditions, subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective and hence the number of equity instruments that will ultimately interest rate method.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with Provisions a corresponding entry in equity.
No expense is recognised for A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or awards that do not ultimately vest.
constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to Treasury Shares settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, expected future cash HMV Group plc shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects the Trust are classified in shareholders equity as other reserve own risks specific to the liability.
shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, sale, issue or Pension costs cancellation of equity shares.
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes, the funds of which are held in Derivative financial instruments separate, trustee administered funds.
The Group may from time to time use derivative financial The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit instruments for hedging purposes, including cross-currency scheme is determined using the projected unit credit method, swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet options and interest rate swaps.
The Group does not enter into date.
The net retirement benefit obligation recognised in the derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
balance sheet represents the present value of the liabilities of the Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair value.
defined benefit scheme as reduced by the market value of the The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency defined benefit scheme assets.
options is their quoted market value at the balance sheet date, Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity being the present value of the quoted forward price.
The fair value in full in the period in which they occur and are presented in the of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Other income would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet and expenses associated with the defined benefit scheme are date, taking into account current interest rates.
recognised in the income statement.
The defined benefit scheme provides benefits to a number of Group companies.
There is no agreement or policy for allocating a share of the defined benefit obligation to each participating entity.
Consequently, the Company, as sponsoring employer of the defined benefit scheme, recognises the net pension obligation for the scheme.
The other participating members of the scheme account for their relevant pension costs on a defined contribution basis.
Contributions to the defined contribution scheme are charged in the income statement as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
50 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 2.
Accounting policies continued IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
This new Hedge accounting accounting standard had no effect on reported income or Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that net assets and liabilities.
The additional required disclosures are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are given in Notes 26 and 27 to the accounts.
are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For these cash IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: flow hedges, when the asset or liability for the hedged transaction Capital Disclosures, effective for periods beginning on or is recognised in the balance sheet, the associated gains or losses after 1 January 2007.
The required disclosures are given in on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity are Note 31 to the accounts.
included in the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions Gains or losses realised on cash flow hedges are therefore 1 March 2007 clarifies the guidance for applying sharerecognised in the income statement in the same period as the based payment arrangements to the separate financial hedged item.
statements of each group company.
It has had no impact Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging on the results or net assets of the Group but has led to a instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no prior year adjustment in the Companys financial statements longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time any cumulative see Note 31. gain or loss on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is retained in equity until the hedged transaction occurs.
The following have been adopted but have no material impact If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net on the Group or Company: cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is then transferred to IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 1 May 2006 the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the 1 June 2006 income statement as they arise.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment 1 November 2006 Hedges of a net investment Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation, including a IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 July 2008 hedge of a monetary item that is accounted for as part of the The Group has not adopted early the requirements of the net investment, are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow following accounting standards and interpretations, which have hedges.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the an effective date shown in brackets after the date of these effective portion of the hedge are recognised directly in equity, financial statements: whilst any gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in profit or loss.
On disposal of the foreign operation, Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based payment vesting the cumulative value of any such gains or losses recognised conditions and cancellations 1 January 2009 directly in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 2008 1 July 2009 Customer loyalty schemes IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 The fair value of loyalty points awarded is deferred until the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised 2007 awards are redeemed, after adjustment for the number of points 1 January 2009 expected never to be redeemed.
Fair value is determined by reference to the value for which the points can be redeemed.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs 1 January 2009 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements New accounting standards revised 2008 1 July 2009 The Group and the Company have adopted the following new accounting standards, amendments to accounting standards and IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 interpretations, which are either mandatory for the first time for IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset the financial year ending 26 April 2008 or have been adopted Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction early as appropriate.
1 January 2008 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
51 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
