Reserves and resources Ore reserves and mineral resources estimates Hochschild Mining plc reports its mineral resources and reserves estimates in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2004 edition the JORC Code.
This establishes minimum standards, recommendations and guidelines for the public reporting of exploration results and mineral resources and reserves estimates.
In doing so it emphasises the importance of principles of transparency, materiality and confidence.
The information on ore reserves and mineral resources on pages 126 to 128 were prepared by or under the supervision of Competent Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
Competent Persons are required to have sufficient relevant experience and understanding of the style of mineralisation, types of deposits and mining methods in the area of activity for which they are qualified as a Competent Person under the JORC Code.
The Competent Person must sign off their respective estimates of the original mineral resource and ore reserve statements for the various operations and consent to the inclusion of that information in this report, as well as the form and context in which it appears.
Hochschild Mining plc employs its own Competent Person who has audited all the estimates set out in this report.
Hochschild Mining Group companies are subject to a comprehensive programme of audits which aim to provide assurance in respect of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates.
These audits are conducted by Competent Persons provided by independent consultants.
The frequency and depth of an audit depends on the risks and or uncertainties associated with that particular ore reserve and mineral resource, the overall value thereof and the time that has lapsed since the previous independent third party audit.
The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable economic assumptions.
These include long-term commodity price forecasts which, in the Groups case, are prepared by ex-house specialists largely using estimates of future supply and demand and long-term economic outlooks.
Ore reserve estimates are dynamic and are influenced by changing economic conditions, technical issues, environmental regulations and any other relevant new information and therefore these can vary from year to year.
Mineral resource estimates can also change and tend to be influenced mostly by new information pertaining to the understanding of the deposit and secondly the conversion to ore reserves.
The estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources are shown as at 31 December 2008, unless otherwise stated.
Mineral resources that are reported include those mineral resources that have been modified to produce ore reserves.
All tonnage and grade information has been rounded to reflect the relative uncertainty in the estimates: there may therefore be small differences.
The prices used for the reserves calculation were: Au Price: US $800 per ounce and Ag Price: US $12 per ounce.
125 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Reserves and resources continued Further information Reserves and resources audited by IMC Group Consulting Limited Attributable metal reserves As at 31 December 2008 Proved and Proved Probable probable Ag Au Ag Au Ag Eq.
Includes discounts for ore loss and dilution.
2008 reserve and resource figures are not comparable to 2007 due to the increase in cut-off grades.
No ore loss or dilution has been included, and stockpiled ore excluded.
2 Increase in reserves and resources due mainly to mine site exploration but also to price increases.
Change in attributable reserves and resources Percentage December December Net 1 1 Ag equivalent content million ounces Category attributable 2007 Att.
2008 reserve and resource figures are not comparable to 2007 due to the increase in cut-off grades 128 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
