Notes to the consolidated Overview Business review financial statements Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 1 Corporate information Hochschild Mining plc hereinafter the Company is a public limited company incorporated on 11 April 2006 under the Companies Act 1985 as a Limited Company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 05777693.
The Companys registered office is located at 46 Albemarle Street, London W1S 4JL, United Kingdom.
The ultimate controlling party of the Company is Mr Eduardo Hochschild whose beneficial interest in the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or Hochschild Mining Group is held through Pelham Investment Corporation, a Cayman Islands company.
On 8 November 2006, the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups principal business is the mining, processing and sale of silver and gold.
The Group has four operating mines Ares, Arcata, Selene and Pallancata located in southern Peru, one operating mine San Jos located in Argentina and one operating mine Santa Maria fide Moris located in Mexico.
The Group also has a portfolio of projects located across Peru, Argentina, Mexico, Chile and Canada at various stages of exploration and development.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 March 2009.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are as follows: Equity interest at 31 December Principal Country of 2008 2007 Company activity incorporation US$000 US$000 Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation S. A.
1 formerly Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation Holding company Argentina 100 100 Hochschild Mining Peru S. A. formerly 1,2 Hochschild Mining Peru Corporation Holding company Peru 100 100 1,2 Larchmont S. A. formerly Larchmont Corporation Holding company Peru 10 1,2 Garrison S. A. formerly Garrison Corporation Holding company Peru 100 1,2 Ardsley S. A. formerly Ardsley Corporation Holding company Peru 100 Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. formerly 1 Hochschild Mining Mexico Corporation Holding company Mexico 100 100 Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales 100 100 Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Production of gold and silver Peru 100 100 Compaa Minera Arcata S. A.
Production of gold and silver Peru 96.8 96.8 Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. Power transmission Peru 100 100 3 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy Not-for-profit Peru Pallancata Holding S. A. C. formerly Compaa Minera Coriorco S. A.
Holding company Peru 100 100 Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Production of gold and silver Peru 60 60 MH Argentina S. A.
Exploration office Argentina 100 100 Minera Hochschild Chile S. C. M. formerly Minera MH Chile Ltda.. Exploration office Chile 100 100 Minera Hochschild Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 Minas Santa Mara fide Moris, S. A. fide C. V. Production of gold and silver Mexico 70 70 Moris Holding, S. A. fide C. V. Holding company Mexico 100 100 Servicios Corporativos Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Service company Mexico 100 100 Hochschild Mining US Inc. formerly MH Nevada, Inc. Exploration office USA 100 100 Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
Production of gold and silver Argentina 51 51 Hochschild Mining Chile S. A.. Holding company Chile 100 100 HMX, S. A. fide C. V.. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 4 Inmaculada Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 4 Liam Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 4 Hochschild Mining Ares UK Ltd. Subsidiary England and Wales 100 5 Minera Minasnioc S. A. C. Subsidiary Peru 100 1 These subsidiaries were previously domiciled in the Cayman Islands.
Between 2007 and 2008, the place of domicile of these subsidiaries was transferred to Peru, Argentina and Mexico.
2 In 2008 Hochschild Mining Per S. A. merged with Larchmont S. A. Garrison S. A. and Ardsley S. A.
3 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy is an unincorporated entity, which receives donations from Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. and spends this money on the community and social welfare activities around its mine units at the direction of Ares.
As a result, the Group consolidates this entity.
5 Company incorporated due to the purchase of shares of Compaa fide Minas Buenaventura S. A.
62 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and with Companies Acts 1985 and 2006, where relevant.
The Groups Financial Statements are also consistent with IFRS issued by the IASB.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007 are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied, except for the effects of adoption of new and amended accounting standards refer to note 2 c. The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain classes of property, plant and equipment which were revalued at 1 January 2003 to determine the deemed cost refer to note 2 f, available-for-sale financial instruments and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss which have been measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars $ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Standards, interpretations and amendment to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted.
Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRS 8 Operating Segments applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting upon its effective date.
The Group concluded that the operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 are the same as the geographical segments identified under IAS 14.
This conclusion is based on the definition of operating segment included in IFRS 8 which defines an operating segment as the component of an entity: a that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses: b whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance: and c for which discrete financial information is available.
IAS 23 Amendment, Borrowing Costs, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment requires that borrowing costs relating to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset be capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs should be expensed as incurred.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised January 2008, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IFRS 3 introduces a number of changes in the accounting for business combinations occurring after this date that will impact the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results.
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 Vesting Conditions and Cancellations, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendment clarifies the definition of a vesting condition and prescribes the treatment for an award that is cancelled.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised January 2008, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 27 requires that a change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Therefore, such transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will it give rise to gain or loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses incurred by partially-owned subsidiaries as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The standard separates owner and non-owner changes in equity.
The statement of changes in equity will include only details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes in equity presented as a single line.
In addition, the Standard introduces the statement of comprehensive income which it presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
IAS 32 and IAS 1 Amendment Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments to IAS 32 address the classification of puttable financial instruments and obligations arising only on liquidation, with the object of providing a short-term, limited scope amendment designed to avoid outcomes arising under the general principles of IAS 32 that were counter-intuitive.
63 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 2 Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Amendment Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The amendments deal with the measurement of the cost of investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates when adopting IFRSs for the first time, and they address concerns that the previous requirement to retrospectively determine cost and to apply the cost method in accordance with IAS 27 could not, in some circumstances, be achieved without undue cost or effort for first-time adopters.
The amendments have removed from IAS 27 the requirement to distinguish between preand post-acquisition dividends.
IAS 27 has also been amended to deal with circumstances where a parent reorganises the structure of its group by establishing a new entity as its parent.
Under the new rules, the new parent measures the cost of its investment in the previous parent at the carrying amount of its share of the equity items show in the separate financial statements of the original parent at the date of the reorganisation.
2008 Annual Improvements to IFRS, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
In May 2008, the International Accounting Standards Board IASB issued its first omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
This is the first Standard published under the IASBs annual improvements process which is intended to deal with non-urgent, minor amendments to Standards.
The Standard includes 35 amendments, and is split into two parts: Part I amendments that result in accounting changes for presentation, recognition or measurement purposes, that includes changes in: IFRS: 5, 7 IAS: 1, 7, 16, 19, 20, 23, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 36, 38, 39, 40, 41 Part II amendments that are terminology or editorial changes only, which the Board expects to have no or minimal effect on accounting, that includes: IFRS: 7 IAS: 8, 10, 18, 20, 29, 34, 40, 41 IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 October 2008.
IFRIC 16 provides guidance on the accounting for a hedge of a net investment.
As such it provides guidance on identifying the foreign currency risk that qualify for hedge accounting in the hedge of a net investment, where within the Group the hedging instruments can be held in the hedge of a net investment and how an entity should determine the amount of foreign currency gain or loss, relating to both the net investment and the hedging instrument, to be recycled on the disposal of the net investment.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
It clarifies that a dividend payable should be recognised when the dividend is appropriately authorised and is no longer at the discretion of the entity.
It also clarifies that an entity should measure the dividend payable at the fair value of the net assets to be distributed and that an entity should recognise the difference between the dividend paid and the carrying amount of the net assets distributed in profit or loss.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement Eligible Hedged Items, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment addresses the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item, and the designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular situations.
It clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability of a financial instrument as a hedged item.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the above standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Other standards and interpretations not included above are not expected to have impact on the financial statements.
IAS 23 has been revised to require capitalisation of borrowing costs when such costs relate to a qualifying asset.
A qualifying asset is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale.
In accordance with the transitional provisions in the Standard, the Group will adopt this as a prospective change.
Accordingly, borrowing costs which will result in future economic benefits will be capitalised on qualifying assets from 1 January 2009.
No changes will be made for borrowing costs incurred prior to this date that have been expensed.
In accordance with our current accounting policy borrowing costs are not capitalised and are expensed.
64 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 2 Significant accounting policies continued b Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the financial statements.
The key areas are summarised below.
Significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Determination of functional currencies note 2 e. Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes note 2 f. Determination of ore reserves and resources note 2 g. Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges notes 2 h, k, u and note 15.
Estimation of the amount and timing of mine closure costs notes 2 o and 25.
Contingent liabilities regarding claims from tax authorities note 33.
Estimation of the executive long-term incentive plan note 25.
Judgement in deciding if a company is a subsidiary of the Group note 2 d. c Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except as follows: Adoption of new and amended standards The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group.
IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Shares Transactions, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19, The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
Amendment to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Assets.
d Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position and the Groups operations and cash flow as at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 and for the years then ended, respectively.
Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the amount of shares owned by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
However, minority shareholders rights to safeguard their interest are fully considered in assessing whether the Group controls a subsidiary.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase consideration is allocated to the assets and liabilities on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of net assets of the entity acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting periods as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Minority shareholders primarily represent the interests in Minera Santa Cruz, Compaa Minera Arcata, Minera Suyamarca, and Minas Santa Mara fide Moris not held by the Company.
In the event of a purchase of minority shareholders interest when the Group holds the majority of shares of a subsidiary, any excess of the consideration given over the Groups share of net assets is recorded in retained earnings within equity.
65 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 2 Significant accounting policies continued e Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For the holding companies and operating entities this currency is US dollars and for the other entities it is the local currency of the country in which it operates.
The Groups financial information is presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional currency.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are initially recorded in the functional currency using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions which are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities which are translated at period-end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising from monetary items that are part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in equity and transferred to income on disposal of such net investment.
Subsidiary financial statements expressed in their corresponding functional currencies are translated into US dollars by applying the exchange rate at period-end for assets and liabilities and the average exchange rate for income statements items.
The resulting difference on consolidation is included as cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The source of uncertainty is related to the change of exchange rates in the future.
This change could affect the Groups results.
f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises its purchase price and directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
The cost or deemed cost of property, plant and equipment hereafter referred to as cost at 1 January 2005, the date of the Group transition to IFRS is the deemed cost as at the date of transition by considering the revalued amounts as at 1 January 2003 at the time of the initial public offering of the group and depreciated for the period until the date of transition.
Economical and physical conditions of assets have not changed substantially over this period.
The cost less residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of production on a units of production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations and plant and equipment used in the mining production process, or charged directly to the income statement over the estimated useful life of the individual asset on a straight-line basis when not related to the mining production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect units of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
An assets carrying amount is written-down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other income expenses, in the income statement.
The expected useful lives under the straight-line method are as follows: Years Buildings 3 to 33 Plant and equipment 5 Furniture, fixtures and fittings 10 Vehicles 5 Borrowing costs are not capitalised and are expensed.
66 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 2 Significant accounting policies continued Mineral properties and mine development costs Payments for mineral properties are expensed during the exploration phase of a project and capitalised during their development phase when incurred.
Costs associated with developments are capitalised.
Mine development costs are, upon commencement of commercial production, depreciated using the units of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves and resources to which they relate.
Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised separately with the carrying amount of the component being written-off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditures are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
g Determination of ore reserves and resources The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and are stated in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
It is the Groups policy to get the report audited by a Competent Person.
Reserves and resources are used in the units of production calculation for depreciation as well as the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and impairment analysis.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
h Investment in associates The Groups investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised or separately tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
The share of profit of associates is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the associate and therefore is profit after tax and minority interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its associates.
The Group determines at each balance sheet date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
i Interest in a joint venture The Group has an interest in a joint venture which is a jointly controlled entity, whereby the venturers have a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity.
The Group recognises its interest in the joint venture using the equity method of accounting and presents its aggregate share of the profit or loss of joint ventures on the face of its income statement.
The investment is presented as non-current assets on the face of the balance sheet.
The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
67 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 2 Significant accounting policies continued j Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is included in intangible assets and represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are primarily computer software which are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life of three years.
k Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
The assessment require the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms-length basis.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
l Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The cost of work in progress and finished goods ore inventories is based on the cost of production and excludes borrowing costs.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
m Trade and other receivables Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable which on average, do not exceed 30 days.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount and this difference is recognised in the income statement.
n Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Excess to par value of shares received upon issuance of shares is classified as share premium.
68 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 2 Significant accounting policies continued o Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Mine closure cost Provisions for mine closure costs are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates and operating lives.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure costs as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at balance date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future rehabilitation costs required.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the rehabilitation asset and liability.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of rehabilitation provisions exceeds the carrying value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Workers profit sharing and other employee benefits In accordance with Peruvian Legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
Mexican Law also requires Mexican companies to provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 10% of the profit of each year.
This amount is charged to the income statement within personnel expenses refer to note 10 and is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group has no pension or retirement benefit schemes.
Share based payments The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The fair value of the awards is taken to be the market value of the shares at the date of award adjusted by a factor for anticipated relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently remeasured at each accounting date to reflect the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
Uncertainties in estimating the award include potential changes in the TSR, the number of participants in the plan, and levels of interest rates.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
p Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements and are disclosed in notes to the financial information unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but are disclosed in the notes if their recovery is deemed probable.
q Revenue recognition The Group is involved in the production and sale of gold and silver from dor bars and concentrate containing both gold and silver.
Concentrate is sold directly to customers.
Dor bars are sent to a third party for further refining into gold and silver which is then sold.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of concentrate and gold and silver from dor bars is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has passed to customer.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
69 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes to the consolidated Overview Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 2 Significant accounting policies continued The revenue is subject to adjustment based on inspection of the product by the customer.
Revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained gold and silver.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, certain sales are provisionally priced where the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period, normally ranging from 15 to 90 days after the start of the delivery process to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met, using market prices at that date.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract at each reporting date.
The provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotational period ends.
The selling price of gold and silver can be measured reliably as these metals are actively traded on the international exchanges.
The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
Income from services provided to related parties note 29 is recognised in income when services are provided.
r Finance income and costs Finance income and expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest income on funds invested, gains and losses from the change in fair value of derivative instruments and gains and losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
s Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, with the following exceptions: Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unutilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
Additionally, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could limit the ability of the Group to obtain tax deductions in future periods.
t Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
The depreciation policy for leased assets is consistent with that for similar assets owned.
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
70 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 2 Significant accounting policies continued u Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as loans or borrowings, receivables, payables, financial instruments fair valued through profit and loss or as available-forsale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
When financial assets and liabilities are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and borrowings, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative when the entity first becomes a party to it.
The embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair value through profit or loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way transactions require delivery and receipt of assets within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss includes financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit and loss.
Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract which is not measured at fair value through profit or loss when the analysis shows that the economic characteristics and risks of embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments or a financial guarantee contract.
Gains or losses on financial assets held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-forsale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using recent arms length market transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
71 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 2 Significant accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, through the use of an allowance account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as availablefor-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised when: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: and either: a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset: or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, a new asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset, is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
A financial liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
v Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
w Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the balance sheet at cost.
For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash within three months or less and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
72 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 2 Significant accounting policies continued x Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Exceptional items mainly include: Impairments of assets, including goodwill, assets held for sale, and property, plant and equipment.
Gains or losses arising on the disposal of subsidiaries, investments or property, plant and equipment.
Fair value gains or losses arising on financial instruments not held in the normal course of trading.
Any gain or loss resulting from any restructuring within the Group.
The related tax impacts of these items.
y Comparatives Where applicable, certain comparatives have been reclassified to present them in a comparable manner to the current periods figures.
3 Segment reporting The Groups activities are principally related to mining operations which involve the exploration, production and sale of gold and silver.
Products are subject to the same risks and returns and are sold through the same distribution channels.
The Group has a number of activities that exist solely to support mining operations including power generation and services.
As such, the Group has only one business segment as its primary reporting segment.
The Group operates in various countries including Peru, Argentina, Mexico, Chile and Canada.
Therefore, the geographical segment is the Groups secondary reporting format.
Transfer prices between geographical segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to that used for third parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and segment results include transfers between business segments.
Those transfers are eliminated in consolidation.
a Revenue Revenue for the year is allocated based on the country in which the customer is located.
Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 External customer USA 130,631 158,092 Peru 125,171 48,147 Mexico 15 47, 919 Belgium 6,011 22,415 Canada 50,465 9,606 Germany 54,570 9,370 Switzerland 66,883 United Kingdom 8,202 Chile 33 1,270 Total 433,779 305,021 Inter-segment Peru 25,164 Mexico 4,455 Total 463,398 305,021 The allocation of revenue based on the country in which the asset is located is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 External customer Peru 319,516 303,377 Argentina 88,891 1,270 Mexico 25,372 374 Total 433,779 305,021 Inter-segment Peru 2,359 Mexico 4,455 Argentina 22,805 Total 463,398 305,021 73 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 3 Segment reporting continued b Profit loss for the year from continuing operations Profit loss for the year is based on country of operation as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 | Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Peru 71,070 14,111 56,959 94,415 2,454 96,869 Cayman Islands 68 393 461 Argentina 13,925 29 13,954 5,689 5,689 Mexico 8,249 20,776 29,025 11,403 11,403 Chile 5,593 5,593 2,718 2,718 USA 10 7 17 1,212 8 1,204 United Kingdom 11,613 10,271 21,884 3,919 680 4,599 Total 31,680 45,194 13,514 77,380 3,535 80,915 c Total segment assets Total segment assets, which exclude income tax assets, are allocated based on where the assets are located: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Peru 349,502 234,667 Cayman Islands 6 Argentina 274,508 194,176 Mexico 66,203 37, 915 Chile 634 972 USA 78 234 United Kingdom 287,506 329,263 Total segment assets 978,431 797,233 Deferred income tax assets 20,795 22,400 Income tax receivable 15,272 1,619 Total assets 1,014,498 821,252 1 d Capital expenditure Capital expenditure is allocated based on where the assets are located: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Peru 164,773 68,226 Argentina 80,422 62,929 Mexico 65,646 13,386 Chile 43 USA 49 United Kingdom 430 105 Total 311,271 144,738 1 In 2007 the amounts shown above exclude increases in the mine rehabilitation asset amounting to US$1,056,000.
In 2008 there is no amount of increases in the mine rehabilitation included within capital expenditures refer to note 15.
74 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 Segment reporting continued e Total segment liabilities Total segment liabilities, which exclude income tax liabilities, are allocated based on where the liabilities are located: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Peru 115,066 80,284 Argentina 127,600 97,853 Mexico 5,574 4,192 Chile 1,336 267 USA 36 304 United Kingdom 205,032 2,363 Total segment liabilities 454,644 185,263 Deferred income tax liabilities 15,839 9,091 Income tax payable 997 10,850 Total liabilities 471,480 205,204 1 f Depreciation Depreciation is allocated based on where the assets are located: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Peru 24,484 19,170 Argentina 12,483 4,818 Mexico 5,251 1,940 Chile 25 19 USA 11 29 United Kingdom 89 24 Total 42,343 26,000 1 Includes US$111,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Hochschild Mexico S. A. fide C. V. due to the San Felipe project 2007: US$861,000 of depreciation charged on equipment used to construct the Moris and San Jos mines capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
g Non-cash expenses Non-cash expenses for the year based on country of operation were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 | Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Peru 2,384 21,806 24,190 1,501 1,501 Mexico 32 21,830 21,862 United Kingdom 57 12,572 12,629 71 71 Total 2,473 56,208 58,681 1,572 1,572 75 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 4 Acquisitions a Acquisition of jointly controlled assets Liam On 20 August 2008, the Group signed an assignment agreement with Newmont Peru Limited Newmont by which Newmont assigned all of its rights to acquire, explore and exploit, under its Venture Agreement with Southwestern Resources Corp.
Southwestern the Liam properties located in Peru, and transferred its 50% interest in the joint venture with Southwestern, to the Group for a consideration of US$33,333,333.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Group and Southwestern will each contribute 50% of the exploration funding.
In addition, when the technical committee determines that any of the properties or group of properties constitutes a viable project, a new company will be incorporated and the Group may elect to increase its interest up to 70% in the new company by producing a feasibility study and financing 100% of the costs to initiate commercial production.
A total of 38 exploration prospects have been identified and evaluated in the project area with the Crespo project being the most important property which is in the inferred mineral resource category.
The investment of US$33,333,333 was made mainly to acquire the Crespo resources and immediately commence an exploration programme to transform these inferred resources into reserves.
The consideration has been allocated to the mining rights and the subsequent investment of US$197,000 during 2008 has been capitalised within exploration and evaluation costs.
b Acquisition of assets San Felipe On 15 May 2006 the Group signed a joint venture agreement which gave the Group the right to earn a 70% interest in the San Felipe project once investment thresholds in exploration and mine development of US$33,300,000 were met.
On 4 June 2008 the Group acquired 100% ownership of the San Felipe project in Mexico for a total consideration of US$51,500,000 payable to its former local partner, Grupo Serrana S. A. fide C. V. With the acquisition of the San Felipe project, the original joint venture agreement was terminated.
As at the acquisition date, the Group had invested approximately US$8,800,000 in the property which has been expensed to the income statement in accordance with the Groups accounting policy see also note 15.
Further on 4 June 2008, the Group acquired a group of assets related to the project for a total consideration of US$1,000,000 payable to Grupo Serrana S. A. fide C. V. c Acquisition of associates Lake Shore Gold Corp. During 2008, the Group acquired a 39.99% interest in Lake Shore Gold Corp. Lake Shore, a gold mining company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange for a total consideration of US$163,997,000.
The acquisition was made in the following tranches: 19.99% acquired through a share issue on 19 February 2008 for US$64,806,000.
15.00% acquired through a share issue on 13 June 2008 for US$78,029,000.
The interest in Lake Shore gives the Group the right to exercise significant influence over that company.
In compliance with the Groups policy and IAS 28, the investment has been treated as an associate and accounted for using the equity method.
Management has assessed the fair value of the Groups interest in the assets and liabilities acquired as being US$151,698,000, resulting in goodwill of US$12,513,000 on acquisition.
The fair value includes transaction costs incurred by the Group of US$214,000.
5 Revenue Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Gold from dor bars 124,772 105,975 Silver from dor bars 98,738 64,713 Concentrate 210,145 134,212 Services 124 121 Total 433,779 305,021 76 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5 Revenue continued The concentrate sold contained: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Gold 44,451 19,275 Silver 165,339 114,127 Other minerals 355 810 Total concentrate 210,145 134,212 Included within revenue is a loss of US$14,561,723 provisional pricing adjustments representing the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives 2007: US$6,303,000 arising on sales of concentrates and dor bars refer to notes 2 q and 21 3.
The total volumes of gold and silver sold are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 Total in thousands of ounces: Gold 198 198 Silver 20,593 13,670 6 Cost of sales Included in cost of sales are: Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 | Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Depreciation 41,373 41,373 24,679 24,679 Amortisation of software licences 6 6 1 Personnel expenses 47,286 234 47,520 20,565 20,565 Mining royalty 5,935 5,935 4,218 4,218 Change in products in process and finished goods 9,310 9,310 23,591 23,591 1 The exceptional item corresponds to termination benefits paid to the employees due to the restructuring process of the Group made at the end of 2008.
7 Administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 | Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Personnel expenses 35,504 1,127 36,631 33,262 33,262 Professional fees 10,012 10,012 15,159 15,159 2 Social and community welfare expenses 4,635 4,635 4,317 4,317 Lease rentals 1,447 1,447 1,969 1,969 Travel expenses 2,696 2,696 2,823 2,823 Communications 732 732 356 356 Indirect taxes 3,159 3,159 1,606 1,606 Depreciation 859 859 460 460 Amortisation of software licences 266 266 65 65 Contribution to Peruvian Government 944 944 940 940 Technology and systems 1,204 1,204 1,744 1,744 Security 587 587 320 320 Supplies 466 466 332 332 Other 6,240 6,240 5,464 5,464 Total 68,751 1,127 69,878 68,817 68,817 1 The exceptional item corresponds to termination benefits paid to the employees due to the restructuring process of the Group made at the end of 2008.
2 Represents amounts expended by the Group on social and community welfare activities surrounding its mining units.
77 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 8 Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 | Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Mine site exploration Arcata 1,333 1,333 930 930 Ares 869 869 1,657 1,657 Selene 859 859 987 987 Pallancata 151 151 San Jos 547 547 264 264 Moris 527 527 112 112 4,286 4,286 3,950 3,950 2 Prospects Peru 286 286 1,805 1,805 Argentina 193 193 599 599 Mexico 2,676 2,676 Chile 2,450 2,450 312 312 5,605 5,605 2,716 2,716 3 Generative Peru 501 501 959 959 Argentina 126 126 3,149 3,149 Mexico 902 902 6,491 6,491 Chile 1,708 1,708 346 346 USA 110 110 South Africa 104 104 3,237 3,237 11,159 11,159 Mining rights 398 398 641 641 4 Personnel 6,498 69 6,567 5,434 5,434 Other 3,817 3,817 2,990 2,990 Total 23,841 69 23,910 26,890 26,890 1 Mine site exploration is performed with the purpose of identifying potential minerals within an existing mine site, with the goal of maintaining or extending the mines life.
Once an inferred resource has been identified, costs incurred converting it to indicated and measured resources are capitalised.
2 Prospects expenditure relates to detailed geological evaluations in order to determine zones which have mineralisation potential that is economically viable for exploration.
Exploration expenses are generally incurred in the following areas: detail mapping, detail sampling, geophysics, identification of local targets and reconnaissance drilling.
3 Generative expenditure is very early stage exploration expenditure related to the basic evaluation of the region to identify prospects areas that have the geological conditions necessary to contain mineral deposits.
Related activities include regional and field reconnaissance, satellite images, compilation of public information and identification of exploration targets.
4 The exceptional item corresponds to termination benefits paid to the employees due to the restructuring process of the Group made at the end of 2008.
The following table lists the liabilities generally payables outstanding at the year end, which relate to the exploration activities of Group companies engaged only in exploration.
Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to the exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Liabilities related to exploration activities 1,247 709 Cash flows of exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Payments 8,304 13,486 78 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9 Selling expenses Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Transportation of dor, concentrates and maritime freight 4,636 1,559 Sales commissions 1,144 651 Personnel expenses 97 82 Warehouse services 4,022 191 Other 1,358 297 Total 11,257 2,780 10 Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 1 Salaries and wages 65,984 35,815 2 Workers profit sharing 4,273 11,621 Other legal contributions 12,873 6,566 3 Termination benefits 4,096 2,538 Statutory holiday payments 3,683 1,960 Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan note 25 2 302 799 Other 3,260 2,033 Total 94,471 61,332 Personnel expenses are distributed as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 Total US$000 US$000 Cost of sales note 6 47,520 20,565 Administrative expenses note 7 36,631 33,262 Exploration expenses note 8 6,567 5,434 Selling expenses note 9 97 82 Property, plant and equipment 3,656 1,989 Total 94,471 61,332 1 Included in salaries and wages is the Directors remuneration refer to note 29 b and defined pension contributions of US$524,869 2007: US$662,000.
2 In accordance with Peruvian Legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
3 The amount includes US$1,430,000 termination benefits paid to the employees due to the restructuring process of the Group made at the end of 2008.
Average number of employees for 2008 and 2007 were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 1 Peru 2,084 1,020 Argentina 699 512 Mexico 217 94 Chile 21 16 USA 4 United Kingdom 12 11 Total 3,033 1,657 1 The increase in number of employees is due to the inclusion of contractors in the payroll of the Group.
The amount of contractors hired by the Group during the year was 1,304 employees.
79 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 11 Other income and other expenses Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 | Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Other income: 1 Decrease in provision for mine closure 2,647 450 3,097 Export incentive refer to note 19 2 2,622 2,622 Gain on recovery of expenses 225 225 519 519 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 252 252 Lease rentals 217 217 235 235 Reversal of impairment of supplies 355 355 2 Recognition of assets on restructuring 482 482 Other 1,961 1,961 1,939 1,939 Total 5,025 252 5,277 5,695 932 6,627 Other expenses: 1 Increase in provision for mine closure 3,216 3,216 Impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, 3 Singer and Friedlander Bank 1,292 1,292 4 Electroperu contingency 692 692 5 Loss on sale of Sipn subsidiary 1,034 1,034 Cost of maintenance of equipment 1,165 1,165 713 713 Penalty on cancellation of contract 13 13 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 634 634 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 467 467 Other 3,231 3,231 1,301 1,301 Total 8,246 1,984 10,230 2,027 1,501 3,528 1 Decreases in the provision for mine closure costs are recorded in Other income where the mine to which it relates has fully depreciated the mine rehabilitation asset but the closure and rehabilitation costs are yet to be incurred, and there is a reduction in the estimate of the total mine closure cost.
Out of the 2007 amount, US$450,000 represents a reduction in cost being the VAT component now deemed to be recoverable due to the transfer of the mine rehabilitation provision from Minera Sipan to Minera Ares as part of the internal restructuring prior to the disposal of Minera Sipan.
Increases in the provision for mine closure costs are recorded in Other expenses when there is an addition to the estimate of the total mine closure cost.
2 Represents VAT assets that will now be recoverable due to the transfer of assets from Minera Sipan to Minera Ares as a result of the internal restructuring.
3 This amount represents the impairment of cash deposits with Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank which went into administration in October 2008.
4 Compaa Minera Ares has a dispute with Electroper S. A. regarding the electric power it used during November and December 2002 which was simultaneously billed by Electroper and Sociedad Elctrica del Sur Oeste S. A. SEAL.
Compaa Minera Ares has filed a claim with Osinerg the Peruvian power regulator claiming that the billing should be only for the actual power consumed by the company and that Electroper and SEAL should each have half the billing.
Electroper has filed an administrative court action against the resolution issued by Osinerg and initiated an arbitration process seeking to additionally collect S. 832,135 US$264,842 plus interest.
Management, having consulted legal counsel, considers that there is a reasonable possibility that the outcome of these proceedings will not be favourable for Compaa Minera Ares, and accordingly has provided in full for the claim.
5 On 28 December 2007, the Groups wholly owned subsidiary, Compaa Minera Sipan was sold to Avignon Business Corporation a third party for US$199,996.
This disposal resulted in a loss to the Group of US$1,034,000.
The book value of the individual assets and liabilities disposed of are as follows: Year 2007 US$000 Income tax receivable 1,205 Other assets 29 Net book value of assets disposed 1,234 80 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 12 Finance income and finance costs Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 | Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Finance income: 1 Interest on time deposits 5,934 5,934 17, 169 17, 169 2 Gain from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 304 2,301 2,605 4,331 4,331 3 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 1,613 1,613 Interest on loans to minority shareholders note 19 2,623 2,623 2,324 2,324 4 Discount on purchase of EXMIN shares 1,143 1,143 Interest on loans to third parties 47 47 118 118 Other 474 474 172 172 Total 9,382 3,914 13,296 19,783 5,474 25,257 Finance costs: Interest on bank loans and long-term debt 13,387 13,387 5,966 5,966 5 Unwind of discount rate 4,590 4,590 1,227 1,227 6 Loss from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 6,246 6,246 7 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 11,421 11,421 71 71 8 Premium paid on purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 421 421 Other 856 856 324 324 Total 18,833 18,088 36,921 7,517 71 7,588 1 Mainly corresponds to interest on liquidity funds refer to note 22.
2 In 2008 the amount corresponds to the change in the fair value of the option over 4,330,000 shares of Gold Resource Corp. and a gain of US$304,000 due to changes in the fair value of derivative instruments according to the contracts signed in December 2008 with Citibank and INTL Commodities Inc. with the intention of removing the risk of fluctuations in metal prices refer to note 21 4.
In 2007 this amount related mainly to the change in fair value of 2,475,355 warrants over the same number of shares in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. refer to note 21 1.
3 Corresponds to the sale of 1,660,150 shares in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. at a price of CAD$2 per share for a total consideration of CAD$3,320,300 US$3,321,450 resulting in a realised gain of US$1,613,000 which has been recycled from equity into the income statement.
4 On 9 July 2007 the Group acquired 7,875,000 common shares of EXMIN Resources Inc. EXMIN for US$3,000,000.
In addition, on the same date, the Group converted an outstanding loan receivable from EXMIN of US$1,570,000 into 4,127,231 common shares.
The common shares were acquired at a discount of 20% to the market price, resulting in a gain on the issue of shares.
5 Corresponds to the unwind of the discount on the provision for mine closure of US$669,000 2007: US$1,134,000 refer to note 25 and the unwind of discount on VAT of Minera Santa Cruz of US$3,921,000 2007: US$93,000.
6 Mainly corresponds to the change in fair value of warrants in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. of US$6,245,000 refer to note 21 1.
7 Corresponds to the impairment of the investment in the shares of EXMIN US$8,229,000, Mirasol Resources Inc. US$323,000, Electrum Capital Inc. US$2,637,000, Fortuna River US$157,000 and Ventura Gold Corp. US$75,000.
8 Corresponds to the premium paid on the acquisition of the shares of Iron Creek Capital Corp. and Mariana Resources Ltd. amounting to US$173,000 and US$248,000 respectively.
Interest income and expense from assets and liabilities that are not at fair value through the profit and loss are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Interest income from financial assets that are not at fair value through the profit and loss 8,604 19,611 Interest expense from financial liabilities that are not at fair value through the profit and loss 13,387 5,966 Total 4,783 13,645 81 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 13 Income tax expense Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 | Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional 1 items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current tax: Current tax charge from continuing operations 13,058 56 13,002 44,933 44,933 13,058 56 13,002 44,933 44,933 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of temporary differences from continuing operations note 27 15,809 6,792 9,017 11,641 1,299 10,342 15,809 6,792 9,017 11,641 1,299 10,342 Withholding taxes 895 895 1,161 1,161 Total taxation charge in the income statement 29,762 6,848 22,914 34,453 1,299 35,752 1 This amount corresponds to the related tax impact of exceptional items refer to note 2 x.
The weighted average statutory income tax rate was 40.6% for 2008 and 29.7% for 2007.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the Group companies in their respective countries as included in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in the weighted average statutory income tax rate is due to a change in the weighting of profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The total taxation charge on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the consolidated profits of the Group companies as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 9,400 116,667 At average statutory income tax rate of 40.6% 2007: 29.7% 3,818 34,598 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5,315 2,381 Non-taxable income 2,055 505 1 Deferred tax recognised on special investment regime 6,063 4,479 2 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 1,102 2,917 Non-taxable share of losses of associates 2,534 3 Net deferred tax assets generated in the year not recognised 13,871 5,214 4 Change in tax regime 1,544 3,403 5 Change in statutory Income Tax Rate 786 Recognition of deferred tax assets on restructuring 767 6 Foreign exchange rate effect 7,731 1,611 Other 377 435 At average effective income tax rate of 243.8% 2007: 30.6% 22,914 35,752 Taxation charge attributable to continuing operations 22,914 35,752 Total taxation charge in the income statement 22,914 35,752 1 Corresponds to the deferred tax income asset recognised for the additional tax losses generated during the year arising from the double deduction claimed for tax purposes by Minera Santa Cruz during the year refer to note i on page 83.
2 Mainly corresponds to the tax effect of certain mine closure expenses which are now expected to be deductible against taxable income, when incurred.
82 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 Income tax expense continued 3 Deferred tax assets generated in the year not recognised are comprised by: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Tax losses not recognised 3,851 4,672 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 3,234 Impairment of the San Felipe project 4,350 Provision for mine closure 1,483 542 Write-off of bank account 364 Change in fair value of derivative instruments 341 Other 248 13,871 5,214 4 Corresponds to the effect of the change in the Mexican tax regime refer to note ii below.
5 Corresponds to an increase in the statutory corporate income tax rate for the Arcata mining unit from 30% to 32% with effect from 1 January 2009, refer to note 34.
6 Mainly corresponds to the foreign exchange effect from converting tax bases and monetary items from local currency to the functional currency.
i Special investment regime Minera Santa Cruz benefits from a special investment regime that allows for a double deduction in the calculation of its corporate income tax liability for all costs relating to prospecting, exploration and metallurgical analysis, pilot plants and other expenses incurred prior to the completion of the feasibility studies for mining projects.
In this regard, the total investment eligible for additional deduction amounts to approximately 95,061,000 Argentinian pesos US$27,853,000 as at 31 December 2008 2007: 79,680,000 Argentinian pesos US$25,596,000.
As this additional deduction does not affect either taxable profit or accounting profit on initial recognition, no deferred tax was recognised in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
However under the Argentina tax regime, following commencement of operations in 2007, this amount could be claimed in equal amounts over 1 to 5 years.
At 31 December 2007, the Group decided to make this claim over 2 years, resulting in 50% of the available deduction being included in the tax losses for the year 2007.
In 2008 the Group included in the tax losses of the year 54,797,000 Argentinian pesos US$17,324,000.
This amount includes the remaining 50% of eligible costs calculated as at 31 December 2007 of 79,680,000 Argentinian pesos plus 15,381,000 Argentinian pesos of additional eligible costs.
The balance of the eligible costs of 1,582,000 Argentinean pesos US$464,000 will be claimed in 2009. ii Change in Mexican tax regime On 28 September 2007, the Mexican Government enacted a bill for tax reform that significantly changed the current income tax structure in Mexico.
Effective from 1 January 2008, the tax reform requires companies to pay tax equal to the greater of the tax charge calculated under the new flat rate business tax IETU as abbreviated in Spanish or the tax charge calculated under the current income corporate tax regime ISR as abbreviated in Spanish.
The Group has performed an analysis of the future impact of this tax reform on its Mexican companies and has determined that Santa Maria fide Moris S. A. fide C. V. the operator of the Moris mine will be required to pay IETU in each period until the end of the mines life.
Therefore, as at 31 December 2007 the Group recognised a deferred tax liability in connection with IETU of US$3,403,000 due to the resulting reduction in the amount of capital allowances arising on the investment in the mine to date.
As at 31 December 2008 the IETU deferred tax liability had decreased by US$1,554,000 to U$1,859,000.
14 Basic and diluted earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares issued during the year.
The Company has no dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
Additions during the year include US$7,872,000 of plant and equipment under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease.
2 The amount of impairment losses recognised in profit and loss during the period was US$34,706,000.
As a result of the impairment testing, the Group has impaired the Selene mine by US$ 13,651,000, the Moris mine by US$5,652,000 and the San Felipe project by US$15,403,000.
The triggers for the impairment test were primarily the effect of the current economic environment and significantly reduced gold, silver and zinc prices.
The Group tested for impairment all its mining units: Arcata, Ares, Selene, Pallancata, San Jos, Santa Maria fide Moris and its project San Felipe.
In assessing whether impairment is required to the carrying value of the assets related to each mining unit, its carrying value is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
Given the nature of the Groups activities, information on the fair value of an asset is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place.
Consequently, unless indicated otherwise, the recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charges described below is value in use.
The Group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model for each mining unit covering its remaining useful life.
84 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 Property, plant and equipment continued The calculation of value in use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Commodity prices Commodity prices of gold and silver are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Gold prices range from $750 oz to $879 oz, silver prices range from $11.84 oz to $13.00 oz and zinc prices range from $1.521 oz to $1.984 oz.
Estimation of reserves and resources Reserves and resources are based on managements estimate using appropriate exploration and evaluation techniques.
Production volumes and grades Tonnage produced was estimated at plant capacity with 12 days of maintenance per year.
Capital expenditure The cash flows for each mining unit include capital expenditures to maintain the mine and to convert resources to reserves.
Operating costs Costs are based on historical information from previous years and current market conditions.
Discount rates The cash flows are discounted at real pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each cash-generating unit.
Real pre-tax Real discount post-tax rate rate Mining unit % % Arcata 20.5 5.1 Ares 28.5 5.1 Selene 5.0 5.1 Pallancata 18.5 5.1 San Jos 17.0 9.2 Santa Maria fide Moris 19.0 4.3 San Felipe 11.5 8.2 16 Intangible assets Software Goodwill licences Total US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost Balance at 1 January 2007 2,091 2,091 Additions 876 876 Balance at 31 December 2007 2,091 876 2,967 Additions 37 37 Balance at 31 December 2008 2,091 913 3,004 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1 January 2007 Amortisation for the year 71 71 Balance at 31 December 2007 71 71 Amortisation for the year 266 266 Foreign exchange difference 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2008 336 336 Net book value as at 31 December 2007 2,091 805 2,896 Net book value as at 31 December 2008 2,091 577 2,668 The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its value-in-use.
The value-in-use is determined at the cash-generating unit level, in this case being the San Jos mine, by discounting the expected cash flows estimated by management over the life of the mine.
Due to the current economic environment, the Group has tested all its mining units for impairment, refer to note 15 2 for the key assumptions used in calculating value in use for the San Jos mining unit.
Management believes that the following changes to the main assumptions would cause the carrying value of the goodwill to equal its recoverable amount.
Therefore, any higher deviation would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount and an impairment provision would be required.
Assumption Variation Gold price 6.5% Silver price 7.0% Reserves and resources 12.5% Costs 9.5% Discount rates 4.5% 85 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 17 Investments accounted under equity method Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 a Lake Shore Gold Corp 136,376 b Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. 170 c Cabo Sur 187 Total 136,019 a Lake Shore Gold Corp The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Lake Shore Gold Corp: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Share of the associates balance sheet: Current assets 29,217 Non-current assets 128,913 Current liabilities 5,839 Non-current liabilities 28,428 Net assets 123,863 Goodwill on acquisition 12,513 Carrying amount of the investment 136,376 Share of the associates revenue and losses: Revenue Losses 3,925 Carrying amount of the investment 136,376 The fair value of the investment with reference to the market price as at 31 December 2008 is US$85,269,000 CAD$1.42 per share.
This may appear as an indicator for impairment, however management has reviewed the factors affecting the impairment and believes that the increase in the gold prices and a reduction in the discount rate due to a decrease in the risk free return, has resulted in an increase in the net present value of the investment since acquisition.
b Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. On 21 June 2005, Minera Oro Vega S. A. C. Minorva, the Groups partner of its subsidiary Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. and Minera del Suroeste Misosa entered into an option and joint venture agreement Framework Agreement in respect of the Pacapausa properties located in Peru.
On 16 November 2007, Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Suyamarca signed an amendment to the Framework Agreement with Misosa and Minorva, incorporating the terms under which Suyamarca would acquire Minorvas contractual position.
Under the arrangement, Suyamarca paid US$200,000 to Minorva in exchange for its contractual position in the Framework Agreement.
The new joint venture company, Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. Pacapausa, was incorporated on 4 March 2008 and Suyamarca contributed US$1,200,000 solely funded by the Group in exchange for a 50% interest in Pacapausa.
Subsequently, Minorva transferred to Pacapausa all technical reports and other assets obtained as a result of its exploration activities in the properties in exchange for US$1,200,000 in cash.
In compliance with the Groups policy, Pacapausa recognises all expenses related to the project within exploration expenses since the project has not yet reached the inferred mineral resource category.
86 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17 Investments accounted under equity method continued The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. : Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Share of the joint ventures balance sheet: Current assets 10 Non-current assets Current liabilities 180 Non-current liabilities Net assets 170 Share of the joint ventures revenue and loss: Revenue Loss 2,132 Carrying amount of the investment 170 c Cabo Sur On 21 February 2007, the Group signed an option and joint venture agreement with Mirasol Resources Ltd. Mirasol.
The Group has the right to acquire a 51% interest in the Claudia projects by investing, over a period of four years, at least US$6,000,000 and making payments to Mirasol of US$650,0000 within four years.
On 13 March 2007 Mirasol incorporated Cabo Sur S. A. Cabo Sur and during 2008 transferred all the rights of Claudia property into Cabo Sur.
Until the exercise of Claudias option, Mirasol and the Group will own 99% and 1% of Cabo Sur, respectively.
However, the Group exercises joint control over Cabo Sur since the strategic financial and operating decisions require the consent of both parties.
Accordingly, in compliance with the Groups policy and IAS 31, the investment has been treated as a jointly controlled entity accounted for using the equity method.
In compliance with the Groups policy, Cabo Sur recognises all expenses related to the project within exploration expenses since the project has not yet reached the inferred mineral resource category.
The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Cabo Sur: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Share of the joint ventures balance sheet: Current assets 32 Non-current assets 2 Current liabilities 221 Non-current liabilities Net assets 187 Share of the joint ventures revenue and loss: Revenue Loss 2,157 Carrying amount of the investment 187 87 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 18 Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Beginning balance 15,100 6,285 1 Additions 18,902 7,384 Fair value change 2,914 398 2 Impairment recorded in the income statement 9,442 71 Foreign exchange 519 1,900 3 Disposals 3,333 Ending balance 17,794 15,100 1 The amount represents the fair value of shares at the date of acquisition and mainly includes the purchase of shares of Pembrook Mining Corp. Gold Resource Corporation and Electrum Capital Inc. at a fair value of US$9,888,000, US$5,010,000 and US$2,637,000, respectively.
2 Corresponds to the decrease in the fair value of the investment in the shares of EXMIN Resources Inc. Ventura Gold Corp. Fortuna River and Mirasol Resources Inc. assessed as an impairment loss during the year and consequently transferred from equity to the income statement refer to note 12.
It also includes the impairment of the shares of the Electrum Capital Inc. of US$2,637,000.
3 Mainly corresponds to the sale of 1,660,150 shares in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. at a price of CAD$2 per share for a total consideration of CAD$3,320,300 US$3,321,450 refer to note 12.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Equity securities listed Canadian companies 1,631 15,080 Equity securities listed US companies 5,845 Equity securities listed Australian companies 422 1 Equity securities unlisted 9,888 Bonds 8 20 Total 17,794 15,100 1 Includes Pembrook Mining Corp and Electrum Capital Inc. shares.
88 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 18 Available-for-sale financial assets continued The breakdown of the investments in equity securities held is as follows number of shares : Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares held at held at held at 1 January 31 December 31 December 2007 Additions Disposals 2007 Additions Disposals 2008 Fortuna River 663,600 663,600 663,600 Rio Fortuna Silver Mine 2,472,365 2,472,365 1,660,150 812,215 Mirasol Resources Ltd 500,000 500,000 500,000 1 Pembrook Mining Corp 5,714,286 5,714,286 2 Gold Resource Corp 1,670,000 1,670,000 3 Electrum Capital Inc 4,205,462 4,205,462 4 Iron Creek Capital Corp 2,000,000 2,000,000 5 Mariana Resources Ltd 11,002,948 11,002,948 6 EXMIN Resources Inc 3,435,278 14,952,209 18,387,487 18,387,487 7 Ventura Gold Corp 100,000 100,000 200,000 300,000 1 The investment in Pembrook Mining Corp. 5.6%, a privately held exploration company with projects in Peru and Canada, relates to the purchase of common shares on 14 May 2008 2,857,143 common shares and 11 September 2008 2,857,143 common shares.
2 The investment in Gold Resource Corp. 4.9%, an underground precious metals mining company with a number of prime development projects in Mexico, relates to the purchase of common shares on 5 December 2008 in connection with a Strategic Alliance Agreement signed with this company.
3 The investment in Electrum Capital Inc. 15.8%, a privately held exploration company with projects in Brazil, Mexico, Peru and Argentina, relates to the purchase of common shares occurring on 25 April 2008 1,538,462 common shares and 22 October 2008 2,667,000 common shares.
4 The investment in Iron Creek Capital Corp. 17.6% relates to the purchase of common shares on 24 September 2008 in connection with the Letter of Intent signed with this company for an Option and Joint Venture Agreement to develop the Vaquillas project in Chile refer to note 32 b.
5 The investment in Mariana Resources Ltd. 16.2%, an exploration company with projects in Argentina, Chile and Ecuador, relates to the purchase of common shares on 12 December 2008 for US$495,000.
6 The 2007 addition in the equity investment in EXMIN Resources Inc. 2008: 18%, 2007: 20.3% is due to the common share purchases occurring on 17 June 2007 213,660 common shares, 9 July 2007 12,002,231 common shares and 5 December 2007 2,736,318 common shares.
The last two purchases were made in accordance with the Strategic Alliance Agreement signed with EXMIN.
This investment has always been treated as an available-for-sale financial asset on the basis that the Group does not have significant influence over EXMIN.
7 On 19 December 2008 Ventura Gold Corp. exercised its option to acquire 51% in the Inmaculada project refer to note 32 b generating the obligation to issue 1,000,000 shares to the Group.
As at 31 December 2008 Ventura Gold Corp. only issued 300,000 shares and the issue of the remaining 700,000 shares is still pending.
The Group has recognised in Other income US$103,000 relating to the right to receive 700,000 shares that is disclosed under other income.
The fair value of the listed shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market..
The investments in unlisted shares Pembrook Mining Corp. and Electrum Capital Inc. are recognised at their acquisition cost since there is no active market for these investments.
The investment in Electrum Capital Inc. was impaired resulting in a loss of US$2,637,000.
The Company assessed for impairment its investment in Pembrook Mining Corp. at 31 December 2008 of US$9,888,000 and concluded that no impairment was required.
Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Canadian dollars 11,519 15,080 US dollar 5,853 20 Pounds sterling 422 Total 17,794 15,100 89 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 19 Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2008 2007 | NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade receivables 47,348 56,820 Advances to suppliers 7,097 9,162 2 Credit from exports 465 1,444 3 Loan to minority shareholder 30,331 6,502 19,110 15,100 4 Due from minority shareholder 11,116 16,927 Receivables from related parties note 29 1,048 Loans to employees 607 336 449 434 Assigned funds 30 5 Interest receivable 141 1,198 Receivable from Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank refer to note 11 3 1,292 Other 1,581 1,688 6 Provision for impairment 1,987 548 Financial assets classified as receivables 31,403 75,918 19,589 100,781 Prepaid expenses 412 2,652 847 2,347 7 Value Added Tax VAT 6,489 45,156 5,082 31,052 Total 38,304 123,726 25,518 134,180 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate their book value.
1 At 31 December 2008, trade accounts receivable mainly comprised of amounts receivable from Consorcio Minero S. A. US$16,382,000, Teck Cominco Metals Ltd US$13,902,000 and Louis Dreyfus Peru S. A. US$7,143,000.
At 31 December 2007, trade accounts receivable mainly comprised of amounts receivables from Consorcio Minero S. A. US$20,226,000, Traxys Belgium SA NV of US$14,728,000 and Norddeutsche Affinerie AG of US$8,768,000.
Trade receivables are denominated in the following currencies: US dollars 47,330,000 2007: 56,820,000 Peruvian nuevos soles 18,000 2007: nil 2 Corresponds to the credits due on exports of Minera Santa Cruz.
This credit is calculated as the 1% of total sales of concentrates and 2% of total sales of dor delivered through the Patagonico Port in Argentina.
3 This relates to loans to Minera Andes Inc.
The effective interest rate is between 7.86 % and 8.21% in 2008 between 7.86% and 8.21% in 2007 refer to note 36 f. 4 Mainly corresponds to capital contributions due from a minority shareholder of Minera Santa Cruz S. A. Minera Andes of US$11,115,000 2007: US$16,927,000.
5 Mainly corresponds to interest receivable on JP Morgan liquidity funds refer to note 22 1.
6 Includes provision for impairment of other receivables of US$1,987,000 as at 31 December 2008 2007: US$548,000.
It mainly corresponds to the impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank of US$1,292,000 refer to note 11 3.
7 This includes an amount of US$32,220,000 2007: US$24,842,000 of value added taxes paid in the development and plant expansion of the San Jos project that will be recovered through the future sales of gold and silver by Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
It also includes the VAT of Minera Suyamarca of US$12,741,000 2007: US$4,988,000 and Minas Santa Mara fide Moris of US$2,369,000 2007: US$1,758,000.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables: Individually Collectively impaired impaired Total US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2007 451 451 Charge for the year 208 208 Utilised 111 111 At 31 December 2007 548 548 Charge for the year 1,628 1,628 Utilised 189 189 At 31 December 2008 1,987 1,987 As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of trade and other receivables is as follows: Neither Total past receivable due nor Less than 30 to 60 Over before impaired 30 days days 60 days impairment Year US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2008 161,804 15 2,198 164,017 2007 159,698 548 160,246 90 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 20 Inventories As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Finished goods 2,720 3,551 Products in process 21,323 29,802 Raw materials 1,741 494 Supplies and spare parts 24,437 13,563 50,221 47, 410 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 1,001 398 Total 49,220 47, 012 Finished goods include ounces of gold and silver and concentrate.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of silver and gold and minor impurities delivered in bar form to refiners and is considered as a product in process.
The refined products are then sold to the customers and or refiners.
Concentrate is a product containing sulphides with variable content of base and precious metals and are sold to smelters.
The amount of dor on hand at 31 December 2008 included in products in process is US$4,359,000 2007: US$3,160,000.
As part of the managements short-term financing policies, the Group acquires pre-shipment loans which are guaranteed by the inventory refer to note 24 a.
21 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 1 Warrants in Fortuna Silver Mines Inc. 745 6,990 Warrants in Mirasol Resources Ltd. 1 2 Option over shares of Gold Resource Corp. 2,301 3 Embedded derivatives 2,219 1,048 4 Swap contracts 304 Total 5,569 8,039 1 At 31 December 2008 this item represented 2,475,355 2007: 2,475,355 warrants of Fortuna Silver Mines Inc.
The expiry dates of the warrants are 27 June 2010 and 17 November 2010 for 862,117 and 1,613,238 warrants respectively.
Warrants are fair valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
2 At 31 December 2008 this item represented option over 4,330,000 2007: nil shares of Gold Resource Corp. with an expiry date of 2 March 2009.
Options are fair valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
3 Sales of concentrates and certain gold and silver volumes are provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded.
The price is then adjusted after an agreed period of time usually linked to the length of time it takes the smelter to refine and sell the concentrate or the refiner to process the dor into gold and silver, with the Group either paying or receiving the difference between the provisional price and the final price.
This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The gain or loss that arises on the fair value of the embedded derivative is recorded in Revenue refer to note 5.
4 The Group holds contracts of derivative instruments with the intention to remove the risk of fluctuations in metal prices.
As at 31 December 2008 the Company did not meet all the criteria stated in IAS 39 to account for the derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
Accordingly, the Group recognised a gain of US$304,000 due to the changes in the fair value occurring during 2008, which is recognised within finance income refer to note 12 5.
The fair value of the forward contracts is calculated based on spot prices plus forward points estimated using SIFO Silver Forward Mid Rates and GOFO Gold Forward Offered Rates for silver and gold, respectively, as published by the London Bullion Market Association at 31 December 2008.
91 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 21 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss continued The following tables include the information of the contracts signed: Silver Quantity as at 31 December Quotation period | 2008 Quotation Organisation ounces US$ oz From To Citibank 1,500,000 11.00 January 2009 December 2009 Citibank 1,000,000 11.00 January 2009 December 2009 INTL Commodities Inc. 389,000 10.50 January 2009 INTL Commodities Inc. 389,000 10.75 January 2009 Total 3,278,000 Gold Quantity as at 31 December Quotation period | 2008 Quotation Organisation ounces US$ oz From To INTL Commodities Inc. 1,900 840 January 2009 Total 1,900 22 Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank 171 539 1 Liquidity funds 93,131 285,015 2 Current demand deposit accounts 14,567 8,499 3 Time deposits 8,278 7,373 Cash and cash equivalents considered for the cash flow statement 116,147 301,426 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their book value.
1 The liquidity funds are mainly invested in certificate of deposit, commercial papers and floating rate notes with a weighted average annual effective interest rate of 3.98% and a weighted average maturity between 30 to 54 days as at 31 December 2008 2007: 5.09% and 34 days refer to note 36 f. 2 Relates to bank accounts which are freely available and do not bear interest.
3 The effective interest rates as at 31 December 2008 was 2.67% 2007: 5.26%.
These deposits have an average maturity from 1 to 30 days refer to note 36 f. 92 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 23 Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2008 2007 | NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade payables 50,904 29,273 Professional fees 1,260 868 2 Deferred consideration 1,326 Interest payable 421 324 Taxes and contributions 543 9,622 847 6,938 Salaries and wages payable 11,955 7,205 Mining royalty note 35 1,012 1,024 3 Dividends payable 228 578 Accrued expenses 84 2,158 8 1,386 Guarantee deposits 2,745 1,616 Other 1,986 4 1,638 Total 627 82,291 859 52,176 The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
1 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractors services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
Trade payables are denominated in the following currencies: 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 US dollar 20,935 17,131 Peruvian nuevos soles 14,112 6,231 Argentinian pesos 15,128 4,651 Mexican pesos 390 846 Pounds sterling 68 266 Chilean pesos 213 106 Canadian dollars 49 42 Australian dollars 9 Total 50,904 29,273 2 Corresponds to the deferred consideration generated for the Pallancata project in Minera Suyamarca.
During 2008 the Group completed the construction of the mine and the deferred consideration was reduced to nil.
3 Corresponds to dividends payable to minority shareholders of US$228,000 2007: US$378,000.
24 Borrowings As at 31 December 2008 2007 | NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Secured bank loans note 24 a 202,094 56,625 23,750 Amount due to minority shareholders note 24 b 29,598 40,409 55,209 9,299 Amounts due to related parties note 29 1,036 120 Total 231,692 98,070 55,209 33,169 93 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 24 Borrowings continued a Secured bank loans As at 31 December 2008, the balance corresponds to: i. Pre shipment loans for a total amount of US$18,380,000 in Compaa Minera Ares, US$11,280,000 in Compaa Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. and US$20,000,000 in Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
These obligations accrue an effective annual interest rate ranging from 5.55% to 8.70% and are guaranteed by the inventories of the company refer to note 20.
Pre shipments are credit lines given by the Banks to pay obligations related to the exports of the Group.
Leasing agreement with Banco fide Credito for an amount of US$7,207,000 in Compaa Minera Ares.
This obligation accrues an effective annual interest rate ranging from 6.80% to 7.45%.
The following table demonstrates the present value and maturity of future minimum lease payments as at 31 December 2008: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 2,705 Between 1 and 2 years 2,604 Between 2 and 5 years 1,898 Total 7,207 The following table demonstrates the reconciliation between the total minimum lease payments and the present value as at 31 December 2008 and 2007.
As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Present value of leases 7,207 Future interest 728 Total minimum lease payments 7,935 The carrying amount of net lease liabilities approximate their fair value.
Loan facility with a syndicate of lenders with JP Morgan Chase Bank N. A. acting as the Administrative Agent.
Total secured term loan facility of US$200,000,000 that accrues an effective interest rate of LIBOR 1% and is guaranteed by all the equity share capital, free and clear of any liens, of Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. The balance as at 31 December 2008 is comprised of the secured term loan facility of US$200,000,000 plus accrued interest of $4,260,000 and net of transaction costs of US$2,408,000.
The Company has granted the following guarantees on its $200,000,000 bank syndicated loan: Pledge of all shares in Compaa Minera Ares wholly-owned subsidiary.
Subsidiary guarantees by certain wholly-owned subsidiaries whereby these subsidiaries guarantee with their cash flows the repayment of the loan.
The main administrative and financial covenants that the Company and Compaa Minera Ares must comply with during the term of the syndicated loan are as follows: Quarterly unaudited and annual audited financial statements for Hochschild Mining plc and Compaa Minera Ares.
Investments in restricted and unrestricted subsidiaries based on an agreed upon limit unlimited within restricted subsidiaries.
It is intended for every wholly-owned subsidiary to participate in the subsidiary guarantee.
Maintain the following ratios at a consolidated and Compaa Minera Ares level beginning on the date of execution of the agreement and during the term of effect of the loan: Interest expense coverage ratio greater than 3:1.
Debt to EBITDA ratio lower than 2.5:1 from 2009 onwards up to 3:1 in 2008.
Compliance with the restrictive covenants described in the preceding paragraph is overseen by Compaa Minera Ares management and the Administrative Agent.
The Group and Compaa Minera Ares have complied with the commitments and financial covenants mentioned in the syndicated loan agreement.
As at 31 December 2007, the balance corresponded to: Pre shipment loans for a total amount of US$23,750,000 in Compaa Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. and Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
These obligations accrue an effective annual interest rate ranging from 6.00% to 7.50% and are guaranteed by the inventories of the Company refer to note 20.
94 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 24 Borrowings continued b Amounts due to minority shareholders As at 31 December 2008 the balance mainly corresponds to a loan from Minera Andes Inc. to Minera Santa Cruz S. A. for an amount of US$62,105,000 2007: US$57,065,000 with interest rates between 7.86% and 12%.
There is also a loan of US$7,902,000 to Minera Santa Cruz S. A. from Minera Andes S. A.
2007: US$7,358,000 with an interest rate of 12% refer to note 36 f. The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Between 1 and 2 years 81,284 41,286 Between 2 and 5 years 150,408 13,923 Total 231,692 55,209 The carrying amount of short-term borrowings approximates their fair value.
The carrying amount and fair value of the non-current borrowings are as follows: Carrying amount Fair Values as at 31 December as at 31 December | 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Bank loans Secured 202,094 213,408 Amounts due to minority interest and related parties fixed rates 29,598 55,209 33,263 60,158 Total 231,692 55,209 246,671 60,158 25 Provisions Executive Provision Workers Contributions long-term for mine profit to Peruvian incentive 1 2 closure sharing Government plan Other Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2007 32,364 6,618 800 293 40,075 Increase decrease to existing provision 1,056 11,620 940 799 13 14,402 Accretion resulting from unwinding of discount rate 1,134 1,134 Change in discount rate 2,401 2,401 Change in estimate 2,782 2,782 Payments 2,023 9,461 306 11,790 Foreign exchange 418 8 410 At 31 December 2007 32,150 9,195 1,434 799 272 43,850 Less current portion 2,400 9,195 1,434 13,029 Non-current portion 29,750 799 272 30,821 At 1 January 2008 32,150 9,195 1,434 799 272 43,850 Increase to existing provision 2,105 4,273 944 302 962 8,586 Accretion resulting from unwinding of discount rate 669 669 Change in discount rate 4,042 4,042 Change in estimate 1,409 1,409 Payments 1,476 13,248 1,368 1,101 21 17,214 Foreign exchange 641 19 622 At 31 December 2008 38,899 861 991 1,213 41,964 Less current portion 1,379 861 991 1,046 4,277 Non-current portion 37,520 167 37,687 1 The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the expected date of depletion of each of the deposits.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a real pre-tax annual discount rate, based on a US Treasury bond of an appropriate tenure as at 31 December 2008 and 2007 respectively, and the cash flows have been adjusted to reflect the risk attached to these cash flows.
Uncertainties in the timing for using this provision includes changes in the future that could impact the time of closing the mines, as new resources and reserves are discovered.
2 The 2007 Executive Long-Term incentive plan was replaced by a new plan with different variables.
To terminate the first plan, the Group paid to the employees under the plan an amount of US$1,101,000, during the first semester of 2008.
The comparative effect on Groups results is presented in the following table: 95 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 25 Provisions continued Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Administrative expenses 275 727 Exploration expenses 27 72 Total 302 799 The new plan reduces the number of variables and only considers Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The plan comprises an amount to be paid in cash to participants depending on the achievement of the three-year performance measures during the performance period which ends on 31 December 2010.
The cash award will be held for an additional period and delivered 50% on 31 December 2010 and the remaining 50% on 31 December 2011, accumulating notional interest at the prevailing inter-bank interest rate.
Only employees who remain with the Company until this date will have right of the benefit, with some exemptions that have to be approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost of the long-term employee benefit.
There is no provision in 2008 because TSR over the period did not reach the performance level required under the rules of the plan.
26 Equity a Share capital and share premium Authorised and issued share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2008 and 2007 is as follows: Authorised Issued | Class of shares Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary shares 500,000,000 125,000,000 307,350,226 76,837,557 At 31 December 2008 and 2007, all issued shares with a par value of 25p weighted average of US$0.476 per share each were fully paid.
Rights attached to ordinary shares: At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person and by proxy has one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share of which he is the holder proxy.
The changes in share capital are as follows: Share Share Number capital Premium of shares US$000 US$000 Shares issued as at 1 January 2007 307,350,226 146,466 396,156 1 Transaction costs associated with issue of shares 228 Shares issued as at 31 December 2007 307,350,226 146,466 395,928 Shares issued as at 31 December 2008 307,350,226 146,466 395,928 1 Corresponds to the underaccrual of transaction costs relating to the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2006. b Other reserves Unrealised gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets Under IAS 39, the Group classifies its investments in listed companies as available-for-sale financial assets and are carried at fair value.
Consequently, the increase in carrying values, net of the related deferred tax liability, is taken directly to this account where it will remain until disposal or impairment of the investment, when the cumulative unrealised gains and losses are recycled through the income statement.
Cumulative translation adjustment The cumulative translation adjustment account is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries with a functional currency different to the reporting currency of the Group.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets of the Cayman Holding Companies Ardsley, Garrison, Larchmont and Hochschild Mining Peru acquired under the Share Exchange Agreement and the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of such acquisition.
96 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 Deferred income tax The changes in the net deferred income tax assets liabilities are as follows: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Beginning of the year 13,309 3,894 Income statement credit 9,017 10,342 Deferred income tax arising on net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in equity 664 927 End of the year 4,956 13,309 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset during the year is as follows: Differences in cost Mine Financial of PP&E development instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax liabilities: At 1 January 2007 1,878 3,347 1,652 3,596 10,473 Income statement credit charge 3,314 5,735 726 983 8,792 Net deferred income tax from unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 927 927 At 31 December 2007 5,192 9,082 3,305 2,613 20,192 Income statement credit charge 851 11,108 1,405 642 8,210 Net deferred income tax from unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 664 664 At 31 December 2008 4,341 20,190 1,236 1,971 27,738 Differences Provision in cost for mine Mine Tax Interest of PP&E closure development losses payable Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets: At 1 January 2007 1,711 1,480 2,498 5,464 507 2,707 14,367 Income statement credit charge 2,396 3,375 649 8,688 3,121 2,203 19,134 Use of loss carry forward At 31 December 2007 4,107 4,855 1,849 14,152 3,628 4,910 33,501 Income statement credit charge 2,059 887 1,849 2,593 3,640 1,167 807 At 31 December 2008 2,048 5,742 11,559 7,268 6,077 32,694 The amounts after offset, as presented on the face of the balance sheet, are as follows: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets 20,795 22,400 Deferred income tax liabilities 15,839 9,091 97 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 27 Deferred income tax continued Tax losses expire in the following years: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 1 Recognised : Expire in one year 54 Expire in two years 4,598 502 Expire in three years 6,458 8,320 Expire in four years 20,080 12,232 Expire after four years 2,360 20,433 33,496 41,541 Unrecognised: Expire in one year 1,625 188 Expire in two years 1,646 1,812 Expire in three years 2,280 1,831 Expire in four years 4,035 2,558 Expire after four years 41,355 38,947 50,941 45,336 Total tax losses recognised and unrecognised 84,437 86,877 1 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent that they are expected to be offset against taxable profits arising in future periods, based on the profit forecast prepared by management.
Other unrecognised deferred income tax assets comprises gross amounts : As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 1 Provision for mine closure 20,641 16,777 Impairments of available-for-sale financial assets 11,421 1 This relates to provision for mine closure expenditure which is expected to be incurred in periods in which it is expected that there will not be taxable profits against which the expenditure can be offset.
Unrecognised deferred tax liability on retained earnings Due to the statutory tax regime in the countries in which the Groups operating companies are tax residents, there are no temporary differences in respect of undistributed reserves for which a deferred tax liability should be recognised.
28 Dividends paid and proposed Amount US$000 Year ended 31 December 2007 1 Total dividends paid or provided for during the year 24,729 2 Total dividends declared after year-end and not provided for 22,184 Year ended 31 December 2008 3 Total dividends paid during the year 28,531 Total dividends declared after year-end and not provided for 6,147 1 Corresponds to dividends paid and provided during 2007 of US$8,448,000 and the payment of accrued dividends as at 31 December 2006 of US$16,281,000.
2 Corresponds to dividends declared after 31 December 2007 to Pelham Investment Corporation, Navajo Overseas Corporation and public shareholders Parent companys shareholders 3 Corresponds to dividends paid and provided during 2008 of US$22,184,667 and US$6,147,005, and the payment of accrued dividends as at 31 December 2007 of US$200,000 to Dona Limited for dividends declared in 2006.
Dividends per share The dividends declared in August 2008 were US$6,147,005 US$0.020 per share.
A dividend in respect of the year end 31 December 2008 of US$0.020 per share, amounting to a total dividend of US$6,147,005 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 26 May 2009.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
98 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29 Related-party balances and transactions a Related-party accounts receivable and payable The Group had the following related-party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007.
The related parties are companies owned or controlled by the main shareholder of the parent company, joint ventures or associates.
Accounts receivable Accounts payable At 31 December At 31 December | 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Trade Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
1 120 Other Compaa Minera Corianta S. A.
43 44 Joint ventures Cabo Sur 1,005 992 Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. 2 1,007 992 Dividends payable Dona Ltd. 200 200 Loans Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
41 41 Total 1,048 1,036 320 Comprised of: Dividends payable to Dona Ltd 200 Current related party balances 1,048 1,036 120 Total 1,048 1,036 320 As at 31 December 2008 and 2007 all other accounts are, or were, non-interest bearing.
No security has been granted or guarantees given by the Group in respect of these related party balances.
Principal transactions between affiliates are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Income Recovery of expenses 34 Services provided 24 Proceeds from sale Sales of Colorada shares to Cementos Pacasmayo 14 Expenses Purchase of supplies 39 Services received 2 28 During the year, in addition to the normal arrangements the Group has with its related parties, the Group purchased a building from Cementos Pacasmayo, a company under common control to that of the Group, for US$3,622,000 representing an arms length purchase price.
Transactions between the Group and these companies are on an arms length basis.
99 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 29 Related-party balances and transactions continued b Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the senior management team and Directors who receive remuneration.
Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Salaries and bonuses 8,718 9,910 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 8,718 9,910 This amount includes the remuneration paid to the Directors of the parent company of the Group of US$3,847,865 2007: US$6,268,000, out of which US$463,218 2007: US$600,000 relates to pension payments.
30 Auditors remuneration The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007 is as follows: Ernst & Young Others Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December | 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Audit fees pursuant to legislation 2,332 1,756 7 Other services relating to taxation 410 443 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 263 501 Other services 106 110 Total 3,111 2,810 7 1 Includes US$1,178,000 2007: US$1,164,000 relating to the audit fees of the parent company together with a proportion of the fees in relation to the consolidated Group audit which has been incurred by the parent company.
All fees are included in administrative expenses, within the professional fees caption refer to note 7.
100 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 Notes to the cash flow statement Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Loss profit for the year 13,514 80,915 Adjustments to reconcile Group operating profit to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation note 3 f 42,232 25,139 Amortisation of software licences 266 71 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 34,706 Gain loss on sale disposal of property, plant and equipment 252 467 Write-off of property, plant and equipment 20 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 11,421 71 Premium paid on purchase of available-for-sale financial assets 421 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 1,613 Share of post tax losses of associates and joint ventures accounted under equity method 8,214 Loss on sale of Sipn subsidiary 1,034 Increase in provision for mine closure 3,216 3,097 Finance income 11,683 25,257 Finance costs 25,079 7,517 Income tax expense 22,914 35,752 Provision for claims 27 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 634 Other 3,687 185 Increase decrease of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities: Trade and other receivables 9,922 74,420 Income tax receivable 13,653 Derivative financial instruments 1,171 2,314 Inventories 2,842 30,479 Trade and other payables 20,016 10,480 Provisions 8,635 3,989 Cash generated from operations 102,167 34,338 Transactions that did not affect cash flows The main transactions that did not affect cash flows were the following: Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Purchase of property, plant and equipment through leasing 7,872 Transfer of loan to EXMIN to available-for-sale financial assets 1,572 Write-off goodwill of Colorada previously impaired 230 101 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 32 Commitments a Gold and silver future contracts Silver Quantity as at 31 December Quotation period 2008 2007 Type of Quotation Organisation ounces ounces contract US$ oz From to INTL Commodities Inc 157,300 Forward 10.19 January 2009 Total 157,300 Gold Quantity as at 31 December Quotation period 2008 2007 Type of Quotation Organisation ounces ounces contract US$ oz From to INTL Commodities Inc 2,950 Forward 815.06 January 2009 Total 2,950 The contracts mentioned above are not fair valued in the books as they were entered into for the purpose of the delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the Groups expected sales requirements.
b Mining rights purchase options During the ordinary course of business, the Group enters into agreements to carry out exploration under concessions held by third parties.
Generally, under the terms of these agreements, the Group has the option to acquire the concession or invest in the entity holding the concession.
In order to exercise these options the Group must satisfy certain financial and other obligations during the term of the agreement.
The options lapse in the event that the Group does not meet its financial requirements.
At any point in time, the Group may cancel the agreements without penalty, except where specified below.
The Group continually reviews its requirements under the agreements and determines, on an annual basis, whether to proceed with its financial commitment.
Based on managements current intention regarding these projects, the commitments at the balance sheet date are as follows: As at 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Commitment for the subsequent 12 months 1,293 2,675 More than one year 19,192 59,355 Some of the significant transactions are explained below: i Ventura Gold Corp. On 8 January 2007, the Group granted an option to Ventura Gold Corp Ventura for the acquisition of an interest in the Immaculada property, located in Peru.
Under the option and joint venture agreement signed on 13 August 2007, in order to acquire an initial 51% controlling interest, Ventura was required to complete a total of 15,000 metres of drilling at the property and issue a total of 1,000,000 common shares to the Group within a three-year period.
On 19 December 2008 Ventura exercised its option to acquire 51% in the project having completed its drilling requirement.
Of the 1,000,000 common shares required to be issued to the Group, only 300,000 shares have been issued as at 31 December 2008 which are disclosed as Available-for-sale financial assets.
In order to maintain the option, Ventura shall issue an additional 2,000,000 common shares to the Group within the next five years.
Additionally, the Group has the option to become the operator of the project and to buy back 11%, giving the Group a controlling interest in the project in consideration for a payment to Ventura of three times the total investment made in drilling and related exploration work which has been completed.
If the Group does not exercise the aforementioned option, Ventura may elect to increase its controlling interest by an additional 19%, upon the completion of a feasibility study on the project within six years from 23 October 2007. ii IAMGOLD On 20 December 2007, the Group entered into an option and joint venture agreement with IAMGOLD Corporation IAMGOLD to explore and develop minerals in the two groups of properties located in Argentina, which comprise the projects Santa Cruz-Ro Negro and Can del Moro.
102 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 32 Commitments continued Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 70% interest in each group of properties by investing US$200,000 and US$1,500,000 within two years and completing a pre-feasibility study on the properties before the end of the seventh and sixth year for Santa Cruz and Can del Moro, respectively.
The Group can withdraw from the agreement without incurring any further expenditures or penalties.
iii Andina Minerals Chile Limitada Encrucijada Project On 31 January 2008 the Group entered into an option and joint venture agreement with Andina Minerals Chile Ltda.
Andina to earn a 51% interest in respect of the Encrucijada project located in Chile.
A payment of US$500,000 was made to Andina upon signing of the agreement.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 51% interest in the project by investing US$3,000,000 within three years.
The Group cannot withdraw from the agreement without investing a minimum of US$800,000 in the project.
At 31 December 2008 the Group has invested US$1,165,000.
iv Santos Bahamondes Latorre Casualidad Project On 4 March 2008, the Group entered into an option agreement with Santos Bahamondes Latorre Compaa Minera in order to acquire the mining rights of three groups of properties Juana I, Juana II and Casualidad located in Chile.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire the mining rights by making payments of US$1,000,000, US$1,000,000 and US$1,500,000 for Juana I, Juana II and Casualidad, respectively.
If the Group exercises its option it shall pay a 1.5% Net Smelter Return once commercial production begins.
v Iron Creek Capital Corp. Vaquillas Project On 24 September 2008, the Group signed a letter of intent with Iron Creek Capital Corp. Iron Creek in respect of an option and joint venture agreement to earn a 60% interest in the Vaquillas project, located in Chile.
A payment of US$750,000 was made to Iron Creek upon signing of the letter of intent.
Under the arrangements, the Group will have the right to acquire a 60% interest by incurring expenditure on exploration activities of US$6,000,000 over a five-year period and has to invest at least US$750,000 before withdrawing from the venture.
At December 2008 the Group has provided for this amount and recorded it under trade and other payables.
In addition, the Group participated in a private placement whereby the Group subscribed for shares in Iron Creek for cash consideration of US$1,000,000, the proceeds of which will be invested in a specific area of the project the Porphiry Area in the two year period from the closing of the private placement refer to note 18. c Operating lease contract The Group has a number of operating lease agreements.
The lease expenditure charge to the income statement during the years 2008 and 2007 are included in the production costs and administrative expenses.
As at 31 December 2008 and 2007, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 1,365 1,541 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,593 744 d Finance lease contract During 2008 Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. signed lease agreements of equipments with Banco fide Credito del Per refer to note 15 and 24.
As at 31 December 2008 and 2007, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2008 2007 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 3,157 Later than one year and not later than five years 4,778 103 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 32 Commitments continued e Capital commitments For the year ended 31 December 2007 2008 US$000 Peru 31,860 15,113 Mexico 19 Argentina 14,112 45,991 15,113 33 Contingencies As at 31 December 2008, the Group had the following contingencies: a Taxation Fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities for four years in Peru and five years in Argentina and Mexico, preceding the year of review.
During this time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, coupled with the complexity of the Group and the transactions they have undertaken, there remains a risk that significant additional tax liabilities may arise.
Notwithstanding this risk, the Directors believe that managements interpretation of the relevant legislation and assessment of taxation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained in the event of a challenge by the tax authorities.
Consequently, the Directors consider that they have made adequate provision for any future outflow of resources and no additional provision is required in respect of these claims or risks.
b Other The Group has conducted its operations in the ordinary course of business in accordance with its understanding and interpretation, and based on advice of legal counsel, of applicable legislation in the countries where the Group has operations.
In certain specific transactions, however, the relevant authorities could have a different interpretation of those laws and regulations that could lead to contingencies or additional liabilities for the Group.
Having consulted legal counsel, management believes that it has reasonable grounds to support its position.
The assessment of contingencies inherently involves exercise of significant judgement and estimates of the outcome of future events.
Uncertainties in estimating the liability includes changes in the legal interpretation that the authorities could make in respect of the Groups transactions.
34 Guarantees and tax stability agreements Compaa Minera Ares Ares Unit On 28 October 1999, the Ministry of Energy and Mines granted legal stability for the Ares operating unit, starting 1 January 1999 for a 10-year term, expiring on 31 December 2008.
Under this agreement, the Peruvian Government is obliged to guarantee legal stability to the Ares operating unit of the Company covering the following areas: Free trade of its products Removal of currency restrictions Stability of tax rates Fixed rate on the annual validity fee or good standing payment for mining concessions As a result of the Ares stability agreement currently in force, Ares pays income tax in Peru at a rate of 30% in respect of income generated by the Ares operating unit, and the annual validity fee or good standing payment for mining concessions are fixed at the rate of US$2.00 per hectare per year.
The Ares operating unit is exempt from paying the governmental royalties covered by Law 28258 Mining Royalties Law with respect to revenues generated at the Ares operating unit for so long as the stability agreement remains in effect.
The expiration of the agreement results in the Ares unit being subject to the actual tax law and Mining Royalties law from 1 January 2009.
There is no effect related to the change of income tax rate, considering that the current tax rate is 30% which was the same during the stability agreement.
Arcata Unit On 31 July 2007, the Ministry of Energy and Mines granted legal stability to Compaa Minera Ares for the Arcata operating unit, starting 1 January 2009 for a 10-year term.
As a result of the stability agreement Compaa Minera Ares will pay income tax in Peru at a rate of 32% in respect of income generated by the Arcata operating unit, and the Peruvian Government is obliged to guarantee stability of the tax regime that was in effect as at 5 February 2007 during the period of 10 years.
104 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 34 Guarantees and tax stability agreements continued Minera Santa Cruz Minera Santa Cruz has been granted with two tax stability certificates in relation to provincial and national taxes in Argentina in respect of the San Jos project.
The stability certificates run for a 30-year period commencing on 21 November 2005.
Under these certificates, Minera Santa Cruzs tax stability in respect to the San Jos operating unit covers, among others, the following areas: The mining royalty cannot exceed 3% of the pit-head value of the production: however, it must be noted that the Provincial Government may not agree with such construction and, on the contrary, may argue that the tax stability does not cover the mining royalty.
So far, in accordance with such 3% cap, the Provincial Government fixed the mining royalty applicable to the San Jos operating unit at: i 1.85% of the pit-head value of the production when the final product is dor: and ii 2.55% of the pit-head value of the production when the final product are mineral concentrates or precipitates.
The National Export tax is 5% when the final product is dor and 10% when the final product is gold or silver concentrates although rebates are available for the first three years, if shipped from port 3%, 2% and 1% rebate for years 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively.
Income tax rate not higher than 35%.
35 Mining royalty Peru In accordance with Peruvian legislation, owners of mining concessions must pay a mining royalty for the exploitation of metallic and non-metallic resources.
Mining royalties are calculated with rates ranging from 1% to 3% of the value of mineral concentrates or equivalent, based on the quoted market prices published by the Ministry of Energy and Mines.
As at 31 December 2008, the amount payable as mining royalties for the mining units of Selene, Arcata and Pallancata amounted to approximately US$876,000 US$1,024,000 at 31 December 2007, and is recorded in the caption Trade and other payables of the balance sheet.
Management, having consulted with legal counsel, is of the opinion that the Ares mining unit has not been affected by this law and therefore need not make any royalty payments or provisions for such payments until 31 December 2008 due to the fact that it has the legal stability agreement refer to note 34.
Argentina In accordance with Argentinean legislation, Provinces being the legal owners of the mineral resources are entitled to request royalties from mine operators.
For San Jos, the mining royalty is fixed at 1.85% of the pit-head value of the production when the final product is dor and 2.55% when the final product are mineral concentrates or precipitates.
As at 31 December 2008, the amount payable as mining royalties amounted to US$136,000.
36 Financial risk management The Group is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may have a financial impact on the Group and which also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks and are further categorised into risk areas to facilitate consolidated risk reporting across the Group.
a Foreign currency risk The Group principally produces silver and gold which are typically priced in US dollars.
A proportion of the Groups costs are incurred in pounds sterling, Peruvian nuevos soles, Argentine pesos and Mexican pesos.
Accordingly, the Groups financial results may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the local currency.
The long-term relationship between commodity prices and currencies in the countries in which the Group operates provides a certain degree of natural protection.
The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its foreign currency risks.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
Increase Effect on decrease profit Effect on in US$ other before tax equity Year currencies rate US$000 US$000 2008 Pounds sterling 10% 430 1 Argentinian pesos 10% 1,362 Mexican pesos 10% 48 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 1,161 Canadian dollars 10% 75 205 2007 Pounds sterling 10% 42 1 Argentinian pesos 10% 11,730 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 2,539 Mexican pesos 10% 166 Canadian dollars 10% 699 1,509 1 Minera Santa Cruz, one of the Groups subsidiaries which is the legal owner of the San Jos mine, had debts denominated in US dollars.
As Minera Santa Cruzs functional currency was the peso during 2007, the translation of this loan into Pesos created a loss.
Following the commencement of operations the Group was required to change the functional currency in Minera Santa Cruz to US dollars and as a result, these loans were no longer being exposed to foreign currency risk.
105 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 36 Financial risk management continued b Commodity price risk Silver and gold prices have a material impact on the Groups results of operations.
Prices are significantly affected by changes in global economic conditions and related industry cycles.
Generally, producers of silver and gold are unable to influence prices directly: thus, the Groups profitability is ensured through the control of its cost base and the efficiency of its operations.
The Company had a no-hedging policy which has been approved by the Board.
However, due to extenuating circumstances in late 2008 i. e. the global financial crisis and the consequent high volatility of commodity prices, the Board approved a temporary authorisation to hedge up to 50% of the Companys 2009 production schedule.
As a result of the financial crisis, the Company found itself constrained on its ability to use its cash balance given uncertainty surrounding commodity prices.
Authorisation was granted in order to allow the Company to free-up its cash balance in order to pursue higher growth opportunities through acquisition and strategic investments.
The Group has embedded derivatives arising from the sale of concentrates and dor bars which were provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded refer to notes 5 and 21 3.
For these derivatives sales price adjustments and hedges, the sensitivity of the fair value to an immediate 10% favourable or adverse change in the price of gold and silver assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows: Increase Effect decrease on profit price of before tax Year ounces of: US$000 2008 Gold 10% 157 Silver 10% 2,063 2007 Gold 10% 107 Silver 10% 523 c Credit risk Credit risk arises from debtors inability to make payment of their obligations to the Group as they become due without taking into account the fair value of any guarantee or pledged assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk as a result of commercial activities and non-compliance, by counterparties, in transactions in cash which are primarily limited to cash balances deposited in banks and accounts receivable at the balance sheet date.
Counterparty credit exposure based on commercial activities, cash balances in banks and hedging activities as at 31 December 2008.
As at 31 December 2008 Credit Summary commercial partners US$000 rating Consorcio Minero S. A. Cormin 16,382 NA Teck Cominco Metals Ltd 13,902 BBB Louis Dreyfus Peru S. A.
7,143 NA Norddeutsche Affinerie AG 6,606 NA Sudamericana Trading S. R. L. 3,129 NA Others 186 NA 47,348 As at 31 December 2008 Hedging counterparties US$000 Citibank 490 INTL Commodities Inc 186 Total 304 106 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 36 Financial risk management continued Financial counterparties As at 31 December 2008 Credit US$000 rating JP Morgan 93,131 Aa1 Citibank 8,061 A1 Banamex.
5,460 Aa3 Banco fide Crdito del Per 2,966 Baa2 BBVA 745 Aa1 Banorte 66 BBB Others including Cash in hand 5,718 NA Total 116,147 As a result of the recent and ongoing financial crisis, the Group has evaluated and introduced additional efforts to try to mitigate credit risk exposure.
To manage the credit risk associated with commercial activities, the Group has identified the following options which it is using implementing: Aggressively using prepayment advance clauses in sales contracts.
Delaying delivery of title and or advance payments to reduce exposure timeframe potential delay in sales recognition.
Obtaining parent guarantees to shore up credit profile of customer where possible.
Maintaining a diversified portfolio of clients as diversified as possible.
Evaluating the credit worthiness of customers.
Limiting delivery of product to the extent possible based on open exposures.
To manage credit risk associated with cash balances deposited in banks, the Group is using implementing the following options: Increasing banking relationships with large, established and well-capitalised institutions in order to secure access to credit and to diversify credit risk.
Investing cash to the extent possible with counterparties with whom the Group has debt outstanding.
Investing cash in short-term, highly liquid and low risk instruments money market accounts.
Maintaining excess cash abroad in hard currency.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 19. d Equity risk on financial instruments The Group acquires financial instruments in connection with strategic alliances with third parties.
The Group constantly monitors the fair value of these instruments in order to decide whether or not it is convenient to dispose of these investments.
The disposal decision is also based on managements intention to continue with the strategic alliance, the tax implications and changes in the share price of the investee.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of available-for-sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments excluding embedded derivatives from provisionally prices sales, with all other variables held constant: Effect on Increase profit Effect on decrease before tax equity Year in prices US$000 US$000 2008 10% 1,615 730 10% 1,391 730 2007 10% 780 1,500 10% 2,534 1,126 107 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Notes to the consolidated Business review financial statements continued Governance Financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2008 Further information 36 Financial risk management continued e Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups inability to obtain the funds it requires to comply with its commitments, including the inability to sell a financial asset quickly enough and at a price close to its fair value.
Management constantly monitors the Groups level of shortand medium-term liquidity, and their access to credit lines, in order to ensure appropriate financing is available for its operations.
The table below categorises the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period as at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date: Between Between Less than 1 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over year years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2008 Trade and other payables 82,359 402 292 83,053 Borrowings 102,705 98,800 161,792 363,297 Total 185,064 99,202 162,084 446,350 At 31 December 2007 Trade and other payables 52,276 334 657 53,267 Borrowings 33,176 41,397 17,575 92,148 Total 85,452 41,731 18,232 145,415 f Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to interest rate risk.
Changes in interest rates impact primarily loans and borrowings by changing either their fair value fixed rate debt or their future cash flows variable rate debt.
The Group does not have a formal policy of determining how much of its exposure should be at fixed or at variable rates.
However, at the time of taking new loans or borrowings, management applies its judgement to decide whether it believes that a fixed or variable rate borrowing would be more favourable to the Group over the expected period until maturity.
It is important to note that all existing financial obligations are at fixed rates.
As at 31 December 2008 Between Between Within 1 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over year years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 22 171 171 Time deposits note 22 8,278 8,278 Loans to minority shareholders note 19 6,502 22,269 8,062 36,833 Amounts due to minority shareholders note 24 40,409 22,248 7,350 70,007 Secured bank loans note 24 52,365 2,604 1,898 56,867 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 22 93,131 93,131 Secured bank loans note 24 4,260 56,432 141,160 201,852 As at 31 December 2007 Between Between Within 1 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over year years years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 22 539 539 Time deposits note 22 7,373 7,373 Loans to minority shareholders note 19 15,100 19,110 34,210 Assigned funds note 19 30 30 Amounts due to minority shareholders note 24 9,299 41,286 13,923 64,508 Secured bank loans note 24 23,750 23,750 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 22 285,015 285,015 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
108 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 36 Financial risk management continued The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable movement in the interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the financial instruments with a floating rate.
The Group is exposed to the fluctuation of rates expressed in US dollars.
This assumes that the amount remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2008 and 2007 and that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the year.
In reality, the floating rate will fluctuate over the year and interest rates will change accordingly.
Effect on profit Increase decrease before tax Year interest rate US$000 2008 50bps 520 2007 50bps 1,430 g Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Management considers as part of its capital, the financial sources of funding from shareholders and third parties refer to notes 24 and 26.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
In addition to such controls, management and the Board have decided to secure commodity prices in 2009 in order to guarantee an appropriate capital level and shareholder return.
37 Subsequent events On 25 February 2009 the Group exercised its option to purchase a further 4,330,000 shares of Gold Resource Corporation for approximately US$12,900,000 US$3 per share, representing a 41% discount to the closing price of the same date.
After the purchase the Group owns a 14.6% interest in Gold Resource Corporation.
On 6 March 2009 the Group served a notice of termination of the existing commercial agreement with Argor Heraeus.
We are in the process of seeking more favourable commercial terms for the Group from alternative customers.
On 9 March 2009 the Group acquired 14,900,000 shares of its associate Lake Shore for CAD$23,100,000 approximately US$18,000,000 as part of its commitment to participate in the bought-deal financing agreement entered into by Lake Shore to raise approximately CAD$60,000,000.
The proceeds from the financing will be used for the advancement of Lake Shores mineral projects.
After completion of the transaction, the Groups ownership in Lake Shore is maintained at 40%.
On 23 March 2009 the Group signed a definitive Arrangement Agreement to acquire all the outstanding shares of Southwestern Resources Corp.
Southwestern, a Canadian listed mineral exploration company with a number of gold, silver and base metals projects in southern Peru, for a total cash consideration of US$17,600,000 US$0.39 per share.
Southwestern is the strategic partner of the Group in the Liam and Pacapausa joint ventures.
With the acquisition, the Group will own the remaining 50% of the Liam joint venture property and increase its interest in the Pacapausa joint venture from 30% to 80% refer to notes 4 a and 17 b.
This transaction is subject to the approval of Southwesterns shareholders which is expected to occur by 8 May 2009.
109 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
