a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2 0 0 8 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 27.
CHANGES IN NET CASH DEBT The analysis below is provided in order to reconcile the movement in borrowings note 26, investments note 23 and cash and cash equivalents note 24 during the year.
DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Currency derivatives The Group uses currency swaps, spot and forward foreign exchange contracts and average rate options to hedge its exposure to exchange rate movements.
At 31 December 2008, the total notional amount of the Groups outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts is 45.4m 2007 61.0m.
Gains and losses on contracts that are not designated in a hedge relationship are taken directly to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of currency derivatives not designated in a hedge relationship amounting to a 2.2m profit 2007 2.2m have been recognised in the income statement during the year for continuing operations and 4.0m loss 2007 2.8m gain for discontinued operations.
Certain highly probable forecast transactions have been designated in a cash flow hedge relationship and hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts.
These forecast transactions are expected to occur at various dates during the next 12 months.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve on forward foreign exchange contracts at 31 December 2008 are recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.
Losses of 3.6m were recognised in the hedging reserve note 33 during the year.
Losses of 0.8m were removed from equity during the year and were included in revenue in the income statement.
Ineffectiveness of nil arose on the cash flow hedges during the year.
Interest rate swaps and caps The Group uses interest rate swaps and caps to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on its principal bank and other borrowings.
The Group had interest rate swaps and caps hedging its US Private Placement borrowings during the year.
The fixed to floating interest rate swaps were designated in a fair value hedge of these borrowings and a fair value gain of 0.1m 2007 0.9m was recognised in the income statement.
The US Private Placements were repaid during the year and the fixed to floating interest rate swaps were matured early.
The floating to fixed interest rate swaps and caps were not designated in a hedge relationship and were also matured early following the repayment of the US Private Placements.
The changes in the fair value of the floating to fixed interest rate swaps and caps are taken directly to the income statement.
A loss of 3.6m 2007 1.0m was recognised in the income statement during the year.
The US Private Placements were measured at amortised cost and adjusted for the fair value of the hedged risk up until the date of repayment, with the movement in the fair value being dealt with in the income statement.
The movements in the fair value of the US Private Placements and of the fixed to floating interest rate swaps hedging this borrowing are shown in note 7.
