a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2008 Principal Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain property, plant and equipment, available for sale investments, financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and those IFRS standards as adopted by the European Union and IFRIC interpretations, which are effective as at 31 December 2008.
The following Interpretations, which became effective for and were adopted during the year ended 31 December 2008, had no impact on the Groups results or financial position: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Although the European Parliament has voted to endorse IFRIC 12, it has delayed implementation which is likely to be the year ended 31 December 2012.
Therefore, IFRIC 12 has not been adopted.
The following Standards, Interpretations and Amendments are effective subsequent to the year end and consequently have not been adopted for the year ended 31 December 2008: IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations IAS 23 revised Borrowing Costs IAS 1 revised Presentation of Financial Statements Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment on vesting conditions and cancellations Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures on the Reclassification of Financial Assets IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Relating to IAS 18 Revenue IFRS 8 Operating Segments is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The standard requires segment information to be presented in the Annual Report on the same basis as it is presented to the Board for decision-making purposes.
The segmental analysis of the profit from operations will therefore be presented on this basis in the 2009 Annual Report.
IAS 23 revised requires the Group to capitalise those borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets.
The Group is currently in a net cash position and will acquire qualifying assets with cash.
Therefore, the Group does not expect the adoption of IAS 23 revised to have any impact on the 2009 financial statements.
The following Standards, Interpretations and Amendments are effective subsequent to the year end, but have not yet been endorsed by the EU: IFRS 1 revised First-time Adoption IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations IAS 27 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement on Eligible Hedged Items Annual Improvements to IFRSs Amendment to IAS 32 May 2008 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation Amendment to IFRS 1 First Time Adoption of IFRS and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements on the Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate 39 a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2008 Principal Accounting Policies continued IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC 18 Transfer of Assets from Customers The amendment to IAS 16, which is part of the Annual Improvements to IFRSs and is effective for the year ended 31 December 2009, requires those entities, whose activities include renting and subsequently selling assets, to transfer the carrying amount of the assets to inventories when the assets become held for sale, and to present the carrying amount in cost of sales and the proceeds as revenue on the sale of those assets.
A consequential amendment to IAS 7 states that the cash flows arising from the purchase, rental and sale of those assets are classified as cash flows from operating activities.
The impact of this amendment on the Groups accounts will be to reclassify 12.4m from investing activities to operating activities in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement in 2009 for the year 2008.
It is anticipated that all other new requirements will not significantly impact on the Groups results or financial position.
Consolidation On adoption of IFRS, the Company elected not to restate business combinations prior to 1 January 2004.
The Group accounts include the results of the Company and its subsidiaries, together with its share of associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
Minority interests Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately in shareolders equity.
Associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Generally, the Group regards an investment of between 20% and 50% as an associate.
The Groups share of after tax results of associates is included separately in the income statement.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Discontinued Operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that has either been disposed of during the year, or that is classified as held-for-sale, which represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
Discontinued operations are presented on the income statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
Revenue Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered.
Revenue from product sales is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, which is normally on delivery of the products.
40 a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2008 Principal Accounting Policies continued Revenue on long term contracts is recognised according to the stage of completion reached in the contract by reference to the work done during the period.
An estimate of the profit attributable to work completed is recognised once the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured.
Expected losses are recognised in full as soon as losses are probable.
The net amount of costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less the sum of recognised losses and progress billings is disclosed as trade receivables payables.
Revenue is not recognised for barter transactions that involve the exchange of goods or services, which are of a similar nature and value.
Exceptional Items Exceptional items are regarded as significant items of income and expense, which are separately presented on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement by virtue of their size, incidence or nature to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Exceptional items are principally profits or losses on the closure or disposal of subsidiaries, the impairment of assets and provisions for onerous leases.
Interest Interest income and expense is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Foreign Currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries and associates are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency of Hunting PLC is sterling.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated into sterling at the market rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Trading results are translated at the average rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the consolidation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries and on foreign currency borrowings used to finance overseas net equity investments are dealt with through the foreign currency translation reserve, which commenced on 1 January 2004, whilst those arising from trading transactions are dealt with in the income statement.
The cumulative translation differences for all foreign operations that existed on 1 January 2004 were deemed to be zero.
On the disposal of a business, the cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve relating to that business are transferred to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Segmental Reporting Business segments have been established as the primary reporting format as this is the main determinant of the sources and nature of the Groups risks and returns.
Business segments are components of the Group that are engaged in providing related products.
Geographical segments are determined by the country in which the companies operate.
Research and Development Research costs and development costs ineligible for capitalisation are written off as incurred.
Taxation The tax charge on the profit or loss for the year comprises current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected net tax payable on the current years net profits, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, plus adjustments to net tax payable in respect of prior years net profits.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised separately on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
41 a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2008 Principal Accounting Policies continued Deferred taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to taxable transactions taken directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
The deferred tax is released to the income statement at the same time as the taxable transaction is recognised in the income statement.
Deferred taxation on unremitted overseas earnings is provided for to the extent a tax charge is foreseeable.
Exploration Expenditure Oil and gas exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised to wells or fields as appropriate, pending determination of the existence of commercial reserves.
Expenditures incurred during the various exploration and appraisal phases are then written off unless probable commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Drilling expenditure and directly attributable operational overheads associated with an exploratory dry hole are expensed immediately upon final determination that commercially viable quantities of hydrocarbons are not found.
When an oil or gas field has been approved for development, the accumulated exploration and appraisal costs are transferred to oil and gas properties.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition and installation of the items.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets, other than land or assets under construction, using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives, at the following rates: Freehold buildings 2%-10% Leasehold buildings life of lease Oil and gas exploration and equipment unit of production Pipelines, tanks and associated equipment 3%-20% 1 Plant, machinery and motor vehicles 6%-33 3% Freehold land and expenditure on the exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources are not depreciated.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any impairment in value.
Depreciation of these assets commence when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Freehold land and buildings and terminals are revalued with sufficient regularity, at least every five years or when events indicate a review is needed, such that the carrying amount does not differ materially from the fair value at the balance sheet date.
Computer software integral to an item of machinery is capitalised as part of the hardware.
Property, plant and equipment are impaired if their recoverable amount falls below their carrying value.
Impairment losses are charged to the income statement immediately unless they arise on previously revalued assets, in which case they are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense up to the amount of the revaluation and thereafter in the income statement.
Oil and gas development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Where commercial production in an area of interest has commenced, the capitalised costs are depreciated using the unit-of-production method over the total proved reserves of the field concerned.
Costs are depreciated only when commercial reserves associated with a development project can be determined with reasonable accuracy and commercial production has commenced.
Goodwill On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given exceeds the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets acquired.
42 a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2008 Principal Accounting Policies continued Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
On the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to that business remaining on the balance sheet at the date of disposal is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and will not be included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Other Intangible Assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses, where applicable.
Those assets that have a finite life are amortised in accordance with the pattern of expected future economic benefits, or when this cannot be reliably estimated, by using the straight-line method.
General computer software is capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over a period of between five and eight years.
Customer relationships are amortised over a period of between five and ten years, pipeline rights of way over a period of twenty years and other intangibles over a period of between three and eight years.
Impairments The Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of goodwill at least annually.
The Group also assesses at least annually whether there have been any events or changes in circumstances that indicate that property, plant and equipment, inventories and other intangible assets may be impaired and an impairment review is carried out whenever such an assessment indicates that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
For the purposes of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Where an impairment exists, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount, which is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Impairments are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the asset has previously been revalued, in which case the impairment is treated as a revaluation decrease.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been previously recognised.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out method and net realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs of disposal in the ordinary course of business.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of less than three months.
For cashflow statement purposes, cash and cash equivalents include bank overdrafts and deposits with a maturity of less than three months.
Financial Assets The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available for sale financial assets.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date, which is normally the consideration paid, plus, in the case of financial assets that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Group assesses at 43 a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2008 Principal Accounting Policies continued each balance sheet date whether a financial asset is impaired by comparing its carrying value with the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at a rate relevant to the nature of the financial asset.
If the carrying amount is higher, it is reduced to the appropriate value and the loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Financial assets cease to be recognised when the right to receive cash flows has expired or has been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
A financial asset is included in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term and also includes derivatives that are not designated in a hedge relationship.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
c Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment, the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement.
Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date which is normally the consideration received less, in the case of financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Group subsequently re-measures all of its non-derivative financial liabilities, including trade payables, at amortised cost.
The amortised cost of long term loans which have been designated as part of a fair value hedge relationship is adjusted by the movement in the fair value of the hedged risk from the date of designation of the hedging relationship.
The adjustment is recognised as a fair value gain or loss in the income statement immediately.
Interest accrued on loans that are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method is regarded as an integral part of the loan balance and therefore included within the carrying amount of those loans.
Consequently, interest payable within twelve months on loans due after more than one year is recognised in non-current borrowings.
Debt Issue Costs Costs arising on the issue of new loan facilities are capitalised and amortised through interest expense using the effective interest method.
Derivatives and Financial Instruments Derivatives are initially recognised as net proceeds received or consideration paid at the trade date and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
Recognition of the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if it is, the nature of the item being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that have not been designated in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derivative and primary financial instruments that are designated in a hedge relationship are accounted for under one of the following methods: a Fair value hedge Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities are fair value hedges.
Changes in the fair values of these derivatives are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in the fair values of the hedged items that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments and hedged items and interest arising on the hedging instruments and hedged items are disclosed separately within finance costs.
44 a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2008 Principal Accounting Policies continued b Cash flow hedge Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions are cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognised in equity.
The gains and losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are dealt with in the income statement at the same time as the gains and losses on the hedged items.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains and losses that were reported in equity are immediately transferred to the income statement.
c Net investment hedge in foreign operations Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in equity.
Gains and losses relating to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are released to the income statement when the foreign operation is sold.
All of the Groups hedges to which hedge accounting is applied, are tested for effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and are fully documented as hedges at the point of inception of the hedge relationship.
Embedded derivatives An embedded derivative is a feature in a sales contract or purchase contract that causes the cash flows of the contract to change whenever there is a change in a specified variable.
The Group regularly reviews its sales and purchase contracts in order to determine the existence of embedded derivatives within them.
The Groups derivatives that are embedded within a host contract are separated from that contract and measured at fair value unless either 1 the host contract is measured at fair value, in which case the fair value of the derivative is subsumed within the fair value of the entire contract, or 2 the derivative is closely related to the host contract, in which case the derivative is measured at cost.
An embedded derivative is regarded as not closely related to its host contract when the cash flows it modifies are associated with risks that are not inherent in the contract itself.
Leases A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the lessee.
Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in the balance sheet as property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments and depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and their lease terms.
The corresponding rental obligations are included in borrowings as finance lease liabilities.
All other leases are operating leases, and the rental of these is charged to the income statement as incurred over the life of the lease.
Interest incurred on finance leases is charged to the income statement on an accruals basis.
Operating lease income is recognised in the income statement as it is earned.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
If the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted to their present value.
If an obligation is not capable of being reliably estimated it is classified as a contingent liability.
Employee Benefits Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the expected cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Method, with valuations updated annually by qualified independent actuaries at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, in the statement of recognised income and expense.
The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as reduced by the fair value of plan assets.
45 a n n u a l r e p o r t & a c c o u n t s 2008 Principal Accounting Policies continued Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and is otherwise amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
All cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 have been recognised in reserves.
The expected cost of post-employment benefit obligations is spread evenly over the period of service of the employees.
Share-based Payments The Group issues equity-settled shared-based payments to certain employees.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions are determined by an external valuer, using the Monte Carlo valuation model, and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the current expectations.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments has been applied from 1 January 2004 to grants of equity instruments issued after 7 November 2002 that had not vested by 1 January 2005.
Share Capital The Company has only one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
Treasury Shares Treasury shares are stated at cost and presented as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Consideration received for the sale of these shares is also recognised directly in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken directly to retained earnings.
Dividend Distributions Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as liabilities in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders and remain unpaid at the period end.
Dividend distributions are dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity and recognised in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or, if earlier, approved and paid by the Company.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements and assumptions about the future, resulting in the use of accounting estimates.
These will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results and adjustments will consequently be necessary.
Estimates are continually evaluated, based on experience and reasonable expectations of future events.
Accounting estimates are applied in determining the carrying amounts of the following significant assets and liabilities: employee benefits as detailed in note 31, property, plant and equipment useful lives, goodwill discounted cash flow projections, deferred taxation timing of liabilities and timing and recoverability of assets, share based payments as detailed in note 39 and provisions fair value of obligation and discount rate.
In respect of the sale of Gibson Energy, accounting estimates and judgements have been applied in determining the fair value of the outstanding warrant, provisions for tax indemnities and it has also been assumed that no tax will be paid on the profit on sale of Gibson Energy as the Company expects to qualify for relief under current UK tax legislation.
