Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the European Union collectively IFRS and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as described in the accounting policies on financial instruments, retirement benefit schemes and share schemes below.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period, assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements.
The key estimates and assumptions are set out in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements note on pages 83 and 84.
Such estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and constitute managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions.
This could affect future financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions are modied, as appropriate, in the year in which the circumstances change.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any potential voting rights.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the consideration plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the net identiable assets of the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Transactions with minority interests are treated as transactions with parties external to the Group.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A list of the principal subsidiaries is included on pages 131 and 132.
Joint Ventures Joint ventures are those businesses which management and third parties jointly control.
The financial statements of joint ventures are consolidated using the proportionate method, with the Groups share of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet classied according to their nature.
In the same way, the Groups share of income and expenses is presented in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function.
If necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of these companies to unify their accounting policies with those used by the Group.
Foreign Currency Items included in the financial statements of each Group company are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates the functional currency.
The income and cash ow statements of Group companies using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to sterling the Groups presentation currency at average rates of exchange in each period.
Assets and liabilities of these companies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The differences between retained profits and losses translated at average and closing rates are taken to reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets at the beginning of the year.
Any translation differences that have arisen since 1 October 2004 are presented as a separate component of equity.
As permitted by IFRS 1, any differences prior to this date are not included in this separate component of equity.
Transactions in currencies other than a companys functional currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when treated as qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies after deducting permanent intragroup loans.
Gains or losses on these hedges are transferred to equity to offset any gains or losses on translation of the net assets.
com 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued Revenue Recognition For the Tobacco business, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when a Group company has delivered products to the customer, the customer has accepted the products and collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
Sales of services, which include fees for distributing third party products, are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Licence fees are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
For the Logistics business, revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
The Logistics business only recognises commission revenue on purchase and sale transactions in which it acts as a commission agent.
Distribution and marketing commissions are included in revenue.
Revenue is recognised on products on consignment when these are sold by the consignee.
Duty and Similar Items Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the characteristics of duty.
In countries where duty is a production tax, duty is included in the income statement as an expense.
Where duty is a sales tax, duty is excluded from revenue.
Payments due in the United States under the Master Settlement Agreement and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act are treated as a production tax.
Taxes Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the tax base.
However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or the deferred tax asset is realised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries including overseas subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Dividends Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends are paid.
Intangible Assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the fair value of the net identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised.
Previously all goodwill was written off through equity in the period of acquisition.
As permitted under IFRS 1, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October 2004 is stated in accordance with UK GAAP and has not been remeasured on transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be subsequently reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Gains or losses on the disposal of a Group company are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying value of the Group companys assets and liabilities including the carrying amount of related goodwill.
Goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income statement on the disposal of the subsidiary to which it relates.
Intangible Assets Other Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised at fair value.
They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost or fair value depending on how they are acquired less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships and computer software.
The Davidoff cigarette trademark and some premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors to have indefinite lives based on the fact that they are established international brands with global potential.
Trademarks with indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for impairment.
Other trademarks, supply agreements including customer relationships and computer software are amortised over their estimated useful lives as follows: Other trademarks up to 30 years straight line Supply agreements 3 15 years straight line Computer software up to 5 years straight line 78 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are initially recognised in the balance sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised at fair value.
They are shown in the balance sheet at historical cost or fair value depending on how they are acquired, less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic benets associated with them will ow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment so as to write off the initial cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings up to 50 years straight line Plant and equipment 2 20 years straight line reducing balance Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 14 years straight line The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts.
These are included in the income statement.
Finance Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are included within property, plant and equipment.
They are initially valued at the lower of fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
The associated lease liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet, and the interest element of the leasing payments is charged to the income statement.
Impairment of Assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested at least annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows cash-generating units.
Financial Instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the rights to receive benets have expired or been transferred, and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation is extinguished.
Non-derivative financial assets are classied as loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents.
Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, and is recognised in the income statement.
For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly liquid investments.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, the carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised transaction costs.
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group does not transact derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities are included in the balance sheet at fair value, which includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant.
However, as the Group has decided as permitted under IAS 39 not to cash ow or fair value hedge account for its derivative financial instruments, changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise unless the derivative qualies as a net investment hedging instrument in which case the changes in fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are recognised in equity.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
The cost of nished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity but excludes borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that exceeds twelve months is classied as a current asset, consistent with recognised industry practice.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
com 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly announced, and it is more likely than not that the plan will be implemented, and the amount required to settle any obligations arising can be reliably estimated.
Future operating losses are not provided for.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Retirement benefit Schemes The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes for its employees, including both dened benefit and dened contribution schemes.
Under a dened benefit scheme, the amount of retirement benefit that will be received by an employee is dened.
The amount recognised in the balance sheet is the difference between the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date and the fair value of the scheme assets.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outows.
The service cost of providing retirement benets to employees during the year is charged to profit from operations.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average vesting period.
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between actual and expected returns on assets and differences that arise as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in full in the statement of recognised income and expense for the period in which they arise.
A credit representing the expected return on plan assets of the retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within net finance costs.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the financial year.
A charge is also made within net finance costs for the expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the year.
This arises from the schemes being one year closer to payment.
For dened contribution schemes, the Group pays a dened contribution to the scheme: there are no further payment obligations once these contributions have been paid.
Such contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Any prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments is available.
Share-Based Payments The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment to share-based employee compensation schemes in respect of awards granted after 7 November 2002 which remained unvested at 1 January 2005, the dates specified in IFRS 1.
The Group operates equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation schemes.
The cost of employees services received in exchange for the grant of rights under both types of scheme is expensed over the vesting period, and is determined by reference to the fair value of the instruments granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions e. g. earnings per share.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of instruments that are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to become exercisable under all schemes, and re-measures the fair value of the cash-settled schemes.
The Group recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity for equity-settled schemes and current liabilities for cash-settled schemes.
The fair value is measured based on an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions of the award.
In order to manage the related exposure, the Group funds the purchase of the number of shares necessary to satisfy rights to shares arising under share-based employee compensation schemes.
Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
On consolidation, these shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
No additional shares are issued as a result of the Groups share-based employee compensation schemes.
When the rights are exercised, equity is increased by the amount of any proceeds received.
Share Capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted on consolidation from equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company.
80 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Segmental Reporting A business segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are different to those of other business segments.
The two distinct businesses of Tobacco and Logistics have been used as the primary reporting segments.
Transactions between segments are undertaken on an arms length basis reecting market prices for comparable products and services.
Use of Adjusted Measures Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reects the way in which the business is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted measures of profit from operations, net finance costs, profit before tax, taxation, attributable earnings and earnings per share exclude, where applicable, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, retirement benefits net financing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges, one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, brand divestment gains and related taxation effects.
Reconciliations between adjusted and reported profit from operations are included within note 1 to the financial statements, adjusted and reported net finance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 8.
The adjusted measures in this report are not dened terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
The principal adjustments made to reported profits are as follows: Acquisition Accounting Adjustments There are a number of acquisition accounting adjustments required under IFRS which affect reported profit from operations.
The most significant of these are one-off adjustments related to the adjustment to fair value stocks held in the acquired company at the date of acquisition, and the elimination of intercompany sales.
Prior to the acquisition of Altadis, Imperial Tobacco sold products to Altadis, principally to the logistics business for distribution in France, Spain, Italy and Portugal, and recognised profit at the time of sale to Altadis.
Following the acquisition the enlarged Group recognises these profits when the products are sold out of the enlarged Group, so there is an initial post acquisition period during which no profit is recognised.
These one-off effects have no impact on the performance of the business or on cash ow.
Consequently we exclude these adjustments and their related taxation effects from our adjusted earnings measures.
Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives where these are considered to be finite.
Acquired intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are not amortised.
We exclude from our adjusted measures the amortisation of acquired intangibles, other than software, and the deferred tax associated with amortisation of acquired intangibles and tax deductible goodwill.
The deferred tax liability is excluded on the basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal of the entities.
The related current cash tax benefit is retained in the adjusted measure to reect the ongoing tax benefit to the Group.
Impairment of goodwill is also excluded from our adjusted measures.
Brand Divestment The Group was required to divest a small number of ne cut and pipe tobacco brands as a condition of the European Commissions approval of the acquisition of Altadis.
Imperial Tobacco brands were internally generated so did not have a carrying value.
This one-off gain and its related taxation effects have no impact on the operational performance of the business and have consequently been excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial Instruments IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value, and that changes in the fair value are recognised in the income statement unless the instrument qualies for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner.
However, the strict hedging requirements of IAS 39 lead to some commercially effective hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting.
As a result, and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting.
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments used to commercially hedge interest rate risk from adjusted net nancing costs.
We also exclude fair value gains on derivative financial instruments used to commercially hedge investments in foreign operations from adjusted profit from operations.
Restructuring Costs significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings measures.
Retirement Benets Net Financing Income The expected return on plan assets and the interest on retirement benefit liabilities is included within net finance costs.
Since these items do not impact cash ows and can be subject to significant volatility outside managements control they have been eliminated from adjusted measures of net finance costs and earnings per share together with their related tax effects.
com 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued Other Non-GAAP Measures Used by Management Net Revenue Net revenue comprises the Tobacco segment revenue less duty and similar items.
Management considers this an important measure in assessing the profitability of Tobacco operations.
Distribution Fees Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue excluding the cost of distributed products.
Management considers this an important measure in assessing the profitability of Logistics operations.
Adjusted Net Debt Management monitors the Groups borrowing levels using adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair value of interest rate derivative financial instruments and finance lease liabilities.
New Accounting Standards The following accounting standards and interpretations became effective for the current reporting period: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions Application of these standards and interpretations has not had a material impact on the net assets or results of the Group.
The following standards and interpretations were issued but application was not mandatory for the period: IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment vesting conditions and cancellations IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the net assets or results of the Group other than IFRS 3 Revised which may have a material impact on the reporting of future acquisitions.
