SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Glossary Adjusted distribution margin Distribution fees Market capitalisation The adjusted profit from operations Distribution fees comprises the Logistics The market price of a share multiplied for the Logistics segment divided by segment revenue excluding the cost by the number of shares in issue.
distribution fees for the Logistics segment.
Management Market share considers this an important measure Attributable earnings Market share represents our best estimate in assessing the profitability of Logistics profit after tax attributable to the of the volumes of our brands sold as a operations.
equity holders of the company.
percentage of total market volumes during Earnings per share adjusted the reporting period, including the most Adjusted measures Adjusted profit after tax attributable to the appropriate independent data available.
Management believes that reporting equity holders of the Company divided by We use latest monthly data only where the adjusted measures provides a useful the weighted average number of shares moving annual total would be misleading comparison of business performance in issue during the period excluding shares for example, if market entry or a significant and reects the way in which the business held to satisfy employee share plans and product launch has taken place part way is controlled.
Accordingly, adjusted shares purchased by the Company and through the reporting period.
measures of profit from operations, net held as Treasury shares.
finance costs, profit before tax, taxation, MYO attributable earnings and earnings Earnings per share basic Make your own: tobacco which is made per share exclude, where applicable, profit after tax attributable to equity holders into a cigarette using a tube machine amortisation of acquired intangibles, of the Company divided by the weighted and lter tubes.
restructuring costs, retirement benets net average number of shares in issue during Net revenue financing income, fair value gains and the period excluding shares held to satisfy Net revenue comprises the Tobacco losses on derivative financial instruments employee share plans and shares segment revenue less duty and similar in respect of commercially effective purchased by the Company and items.
Management considers this an hedges, one-off acquisition accounting held as Treasury shares.
important measure in assessing the adjustments, brand divestment gains Earnings per share diluted profitability of Tobacco operations.
The adjusted As for basic earnings per share except that OTP measures in this report are not dened the weighted average number of shares Other tobacco products ne cut tobacco, terms under International Financial includes the weighted average number of cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff and snus.
Reporting Standards and may not be shares that would be issued on conversion comparable with similarly titled measures Private label of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares reported by other companies.
An exclusive retailer or distributor brand arising from rights under the employee usually in the low-price segment.
Adjusted net debt share plans.
Management monitors the Groups Productivity Effective tax rate borrowing levels using adjusted net debt Productivity is measured as factory output The tax charge in the income statement which excludes interest accruals, the fair divided by paid hours.
as a percentage of profit before taxation.
value of interest rate derivative financial RYO Enterprise value EV instruments and finance lease liabilities.
Roll your own: tobacco which is used with Market capitalisation plus net debt.
Adjusted operating margin rolling papers to hand make cigarettes.
Ex dividend date The adjusted profit from operations for Snus The date from which shares are traded the Tobacco segment divided by net Snus is a moist oral tobacco product.
without the right to the most recently revenue for the Tobacco segment.
It is manufactured and consumed primarily declared dividend payment.
Adjusted profit from operations in Sweden and Norway.
Framework Convention profit from operations adjusted for Total Shareholder Return TSR on Tobacco Control amortisation of acquired intangibles, The total investment gain to shareholders, The World Health Organizations restructuring costs, fair value gains and resulting from the movement in the share Framework Convention on Tobacco losses on derivative financial instruments price and assuming dividends are Control FCTC is the first global used to commercially hedge investments immediately reinvested in shares.
tobacco treaty that seeks to regulate in foreign operations, one-off acquisition tobacco products.
accounting adjustments and brand Travel retail divestment gains.
Products made available in a market Fine cut tobacco principally for travelling consumers.
Loose tobacco which is used with rolling Amortisation papers or lter tubes including make A systematic charge to the income Volumes your own and roll your own.
statement to write off the value of intangible Our volume Key Performance Indicator assets with nite lives over their useful lives.
KPI represents the number of units FMC sold in the period.
Adjusted attributable earnings Adjusted profit after tax attributable Weighted average cost of capital ISO to the equity holders of the company.
The weighted average of the costs of The International Organization for various types of capital that finance a Standardization, widely known as ISO, Cash conversion rate company or a project.
Capital would is an international standard-setting body Cash conversion is calculated as cash generally include a mix of debt and equity.
comprised of representatives from various ow from operations before tax payments national standards organisations.
less net capital expenditure relating It promulgates worldwide industrial to property, plant and equipment and and commercial standards.
software as a percentage of adjusted profit from operations.
136 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 For more information visit Our Business Today www.
com Adjusted profit Net revenue from operations Our leading cigarette market share Our brands United 869m 584m is at 45.9 per cent Kingdom We have the UKs two best-selling cigarette brands in Lambert & Butler Get more online at: and Richmond We are the clear market leader in fine cut tobacco and rolling papers p26 www.
com Our cigarette market share grew Germany 664m 309m to 27.4 per cent JPS is now Germanys second best-selling cigarette brand with 7.8 per cent share Our market share in Other Tobacco Products increased to 20 per cent p27 1.
View the 2008 Annual Report online We are the number one across all Spain 2.
Access the latest shareholder information 411m 150m tobacco categories in Spain Our cigarette market share is 3.
View archive information 37.1 per cent with brands including Fortuna, Ducados Rubio and Nobel 4.
Access shareholder services Our fine cut tobacco and cigar shares are 49.1 and 36.8 per cent respectively 5.
Tell us what you think p28 We increased our cigarette market Rest of EU Our manufacturing sites 1,250m 494m share in many countries in the region JPS grew cigarette market share in a number of markets and Gauloises Blondes also performed strongly 33 We have a leading fine cut tobacco Cigarette factories position across the region p29 Our share of the overall cigarette market Americas 14 542m 166m in the USA increased to 4.3 per cent Other tobacco Our USA market share in fine cut product factories tobacco grew to 8 per cent in September We expanded our portfolio with the launch of Davidoff and Fortuna cigarettes 8 and Premier fine cut tobacco p30 Tobacco processing factories We have grown our cigarette volumes Rest of the 1,502m 404m and delivered market share gains World across the region 3 We had excellent growth in Africa, Rolling papers the Middle East and Eastern Europe Cigarette factories and tubes factories With our versatile portfolio we seeOther tobacco product factories Tobacco processing factories significant opportunities for future growth p31Rolling papers and tubes factories A good performance in tobacco logistics Distribution fees Adjusted profit Logistics With established operations reflected a number of factors, including from operations across the Southern European stable volumes in Spain countries of Spain, France, Italy In other products, our traditional and Portugal, and recent entry 607m 121m wholesale business performed well into Central Europe with the in a difficult environment opening of our operations in Poland, we are one of the largest p33 logistics companies in Europe.
Logistics Tobacco Performance highlights Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 About Us Registered Office Imperial Tobacco Group PLC PO Box 244 Upton Road Bristol BS99 7UJ UK www.
com Imperial Tobacco is a leading international tobacco company Driving growth, which manufactures, markets, delivering value distributes and sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
We continue to build on our long track record of creating sustainable shareholder value.
See overleaf for an overview of our business today Information key Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is a CarbonNeutral For more information visit Cross reference within report company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO14001:2004. p35 www.
com for more information 100% of the electricity used is generated from renewable sources, 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Splendorgel Extra White, an FSC approved paper The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Company and the which ensures that all virgin pulp is sourced from well-managed sustainable forests.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from Splendorgel uses an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process and is totally recyclable.
The forward-looking statements reect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Performance Summary 2008 Chief Executives Review Imperial Tobacco is a leading international We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially tobacco company which manufactures, Driving growth, strengthened our business.
Gareth Davis, Chief Executive markets, distributes and sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, Significant potential delivering value tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
for further growth Performance Overview enhanced geographic footprint, we have We have also established robust risk Get more online at: www.
com The acquisition of Altadis has been the been managing the consultation process management procedures, progressed highlight of an eventful year for Imperial related to our European integration projects.
View the 2008 Annual Report online Tobacco.
Our overall cigarette volumes processes and further developed our These projects affect sales and marketing, were up 46 per cent to 292 billion cigarettes, Five-for-Five corporate responsibility initiative manufacturing and central support functions including contributions from Altadis and which was launched last year.
Access the latest shareholder information in a number of markets and will improve our Commonwealth Brands.
Our People competitiveness by reducing over-capacity 3.
View archive information Our cigarette portfolio is complemented by The development of our employees is critical and improving efficiencies.
our world leadership in ne cut tobacco and if we are to continue delivering sustainable We concluded the European consultation 4.
Overall, ne cut tobacco volumes shareholder value and I am proud of the process in September and have made very were up to 25,150 tonnes, while cigar success of the leadership programmes we good progress on the national consultations 5.
Tell us what you think volumes were 2.5 billion.
We seek to support and and implementation of our projects in develop people in all functions and at all The enlarged Group has an enhanced many markets.
levels, from senior managers to employees geographic prole and multi-product portfolio who are at an early stage of their career.
We have completed the mergers of the and during the year we increased our cigarette Imperial Tobacco and Altadis sales teams and ne cut tobacco shares and volumes Our programmes are run on an international in Russia, Ukraine, Poland, Austria, Belgium across many territories.
basis and participants are often tasked with and Italy, and closed our cigar and ne cut managing business projects on behalf of the Our international cigarette brands, Davidoff tobacco factory in Slovakia.
I have been and Gauloises Blondes, performed very well, extremely impressed with the results, which The consultation process in France and complemented by further growth from a have highlighted the significant and growing the UK has been completed, enabling us number of regional brands including Gitanes talent pool we have within the business.
to begin implementing our projects in these and JPS.
markets in early 2009, while in Spain and Outlook Our strategy is to drive sales growth by Germany the consultations are ongoing.
The integration of Altadis will remain a priority developing our brands and products through We continue to offer comprehensive going forward.
We have an excellent track investment and innovation, supported by support to all employees affected by record of integrating new businesses into the excellent trade marketing skills and strong our integration projects.
Group and remain on course to successfully sales forces.
deliver our targeted cost savings.
Regulation Our versatile portfolio is characterised by We continue to effectively manage the Leveraging our enhanced operating platform great brands and products across all price and stronger, more diversied brand and increasing levels of regulation affecting segments, which provides considerable product portfolio will be key to driving future our industry.
We support sound and growth opportunities given the large and growth and I am confident that we will realise proportionate regulation that respects Registered Office diverse number of markets in which the potential of the many opportunities that adult freedom of choice and recognises Imperial Tobacco Group PLC we operate.
that tobacco products are enjoyed by PO Box 244 Whilst we have an excellent portfolio of millions of people worldwide.
We have a Combined with our ongoing focus on cost Upton Road premium brands, we also have particular long history of co-operation with authorities and effectively managing our cash, we strength in the value segment enabling us Bristol BS99 7UJ in the markets in which we operate and remain well placed to continue to create to capitalise on consumer downtrading in remain committed to continuing to work UK sustainable value for our shareholders.
mature markets, a trend that is likely to constructively with individual governments continue in the current economic climate.
Registered in England and Our continued success in the contrasting Corporate Responsibility Wales No: 3236483 markets of the USA, Eastern Europe, Africa Our ongoing commitment to manage our and the Middle East was particularly pleasing business responsibly is fundamental to our Registrars and demonstrates our ability to successfully long-term success.
As a global tobacco develop our business in both mature and Gareth Davis Equiniti company we recognise the importance of emerging markets.
Chief Executive manufacturing, marketing and selling our Aspect House products responsibly.
Integration Spencer Road The integration of Imperial Tobacco and Lancing Over the years we have taken an increasingly Altadis has been a key focus during the year.
strategic approach to promoting responsible West Sussex BN99 6DA behaviour through dened governance Whilst pursuing the growth opportunities 0871 384 2037 structures, group principles and policies.
presented by our combined portfolio and 44 0 121 415 7009 0871 384 2255 text phone For more information visit Financial Highlights Chairmans Statement Our Business Today www.
com The past year has again demonstrated the success of our Our brands We continue to build on our long track record strategy with positive progress across the enlarged Group.
of creating sustainable shareholder value.
Iain Napier, Chairman Delivering value Volumes 2008 Change 2007 Cigarettes billion 291.8 46% 200.3 across the Group Cigars million 2,452 100% 316 Fine cut tobacco tonnes 25,150 3% 24,450 In what was a year of significant achievement a comprehensive range of support measures In September, we delisted from the New York for Imperial Tobacco we delivered another to assist affected employees.
Stock Exchange as part of our ongoing good operational and financial performance.
Driving Operational Performance This will not compromise the integrity of Earnings and Dividends Altadis and integration have been key In s million 2008 Change 2007 our Corporate Governance and internal Our adjusted earnings per share have priorities during the year but we have also control procedures and we will continue risen by 15 per cent to 136.9 pence.
remained focused on driving the operational Revenue 20,528 66% 12,344 to communicate regularly with our investors Basic earnings per share were 50.6 pence performance of the enlarged business, which based in the USA.
2007: 116.7 pence, adjusted for the bonus included an eight month contribution from Profit from operations 1,157 -18% 1,418 element of the rights issue in June 2008, Altadis and the first full year contribution Board Changes primarily impacted by restructuring costs, from Commonwealth Brands.
David Cresswell, Manufacturing Director and Adjusted profit from operations 2,230 51% 1,475 fair value movements on derivatives, Anthony Alexander, Vice Chairman, retired Whilst building on our strong profit base amortisation of acquired intangibles and during the year and I would like to express in mature markets we pursue growth in one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, my sincere thanks to them for their Our manufacturing sites Profit before tax 621 -50% 1,237 emerging markets and this year we made partially offset by brand divestment gains.
excellent progress in Eastern Europe, Africa Adjusted attributable earnings grew by There have been several new additions to and the Middle East.
Adjusted profit before tax 1,607 30% 1,238 26 per cent to a little under 1.2 billion.
the Imperial Tobacco Board during the year.
The USA is another important growth market In line with our policy, the Board is proposing 33 Attributable earnings 428 -53% 905 We were delighted to welcome and one where our cigarette and ne cut to pay out half of this as ordinary dividends.
Cigarette factories Jean-Dominique Comolli, former Chairman tobacco shares further increased in the year.
The Board recommends a final dividend of of Altadis, to the role of Non-Executive Adjusted attributable earnings 1,159 26% 921 42.2 pence per share, bringing the total for These positive operational developments are Deputy Chairman.
We also welcomed the year to 63.1 pence 2007: 60.4 pence, underpinned by our ongoing focus on reducing Bruno Bich and Berge Setrakian, both former adjusted for the bonus element of the rights Distribution to shareholders 588 26% 467 costs and effectively managing our cash.
14 board members of Altadis, to our Board as 1 issue in June 2008.
Other tobacco The Rights Issue Altadis From the outset, we said that the acquisition product factories All have a tremendous wealth of international On 25 January 2008 we completed the of Altadis would be part funded by a business experience and their knowledge In pence 2008 Change 2007 acquisition of Altadis, signicantly enhancing rights issue.
of the tobacco industry will be invaluable in our business prole.
We have a strong track ensuring that we maximise the significant Basic earnings per share 50.6 -57% 116.7 At our half-yearly results in May we record in acquisitions and a reputation for 8 opportunities the enlarged Group offers.
announced a 1 for 2 rights issue at a share integrating new businesses efficiently.
Tobacco processing price of 1475 pence per share to raise Adjusted earnings per share 136.9 15% 118.8 In conclusion, I would like to thank our The enlarged Group has around 40,000 factories 4.9 billion.
The rights issue was sized at employees for their contribution to another employees, 58 manufacturing sites, an the minimum level required to maintain our successful year.
Imperial Tobacco and Altadis Diluted earnings per share 50.4 -57% 116.2 extended geographic reach and a more investment grade credit rating, to which we employees have developed strong working versatile brand and product portfolio, remain committed.
relationships and their combined skills and including international strength in cigarette Dividend per share 63.1 4% 60.4 3 expertise will enable us to create further Given the uncertainties affecting the capital and world leadership in ne cut tobacco, sustainable value for our shareholders.
Rolling papers markets this year, it was gratifying to see that cigars and rolling papers.
We now alsoCigarette factories and tubes factories the take-up rate was 97.2 per cent and theOther tobacco product factories have a leading logistics platform in Europe.
The turbulent economic conditions are Results include the contribution from Altadis since completion of the acquisition on 25 January 2008 and the 2007 per share gures have been restated to reect the bonusTobacco processing factories remainder of the shares were successfully unlikely to change in the short term but element of the related rights issue.
As part of the integration processRolling papers and tubes factories sold in the market.
we are resilient and highly cash generative.
we announced a number of European With our enhanced geographic and brand profit from operations, profit before tax, attributable earnings, basic and diluted earnings per share are impacted, where applicable, by amortisation of acquired intangibles, Following the success of the rights issue restructuring projects in June which will prole, and strong business fundamentals, With established operations restructuring costs, certain fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, an exceptional gain on brand divestments, charges for one-off acquisition and two bond issues in September, we are enable us to strengthen our competitive we can look to the future with confidence.
accounting adjustments, retirement benefit net nancing income and related taxation effects.
across the Southern European comfortable with our current nancing position.
position and deliver the previously announced countries of Spain, France, Italy annual operating efficiencies of approximately Earnings per share amounts are calculated using the weighted average shares in issue of 846.5 million 2007: 775.5 million.
Dividend per share has been determined using Corporate Governance 300 million by the end of the financial and Portugal, and recent entry the current shares eligible for the final dividend of 1,011.3 million 2007: 672.8 million, applying our policy of distributing around 50 per cent of adjusted attributable earnings.
As a major international company we seek to year ending 30 September 2010, rising to into Central Europe with the act in a fair and responsible manner towards Management believes that reporting adjusted measures provides a useful comparison of business performance and reects the way in which the business is controlled.
approximately 400 million by the end of the opening of our operations in all stakeholders.
Accordingly, adjusted measures of profit from operations, net finance costs, profit before tax, attributable earnings, taxation and earnings per share exclude, where financial year ending 30 September 2012.
Iain Napier Poland, we are one of the largest applicable, amortisation of acquired intangibles, restructuring costs, retirement benets net nancing income, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments It is the Boards duty to review and approve Chairman The estimated one-off cash cost of achieving logistics companies in Europe.
in respect of commercially effective hedges, one-off acquisition accounting adjustments, brand divestment gains and related taxation effects.
Reconciliations between our Companys policies in this regard.
these efficiencies is approximately 600 million.
1 adjusted and reported profit from operations, adjusted and reported finance costs, adjusted and reported taxation, and adjusted and reported earnings per share are If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid We have in place processes which enable included in the notes to the full accounts available via our website: www.
The adjusted measures in this performance summary are not dened on 20 February 2009 to those shareholders on the Regrettably, these projects are impacting our us to meet the high standards of conduct terms under International Financial Reporting Standards and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
register at the close of business on 23 January 2009. workforce and we are committed to providing expected of our Company.
Logistics Tobacco For more information visit Financial Highlights Chairmans Statement Our Business Today www.
Logistics Tobacco Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Performance Summary 2008 Chief Executives Review Imperial Tobacco is a leading international We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially tobacco company which manufactures, Driving growth, strengthened our business.
presented by our combined portfolio and 44 0 121 415 7009 0871 384 2255 text phone Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Performance Summary 2008 Chief Executives Review Imperial Tobacco is a leading international We have improved our position in mature and emerging markets and, in Altadis, completed an acquisition that has substantially tobacco company which manufactures, Driving growth, strengthened our business.
presented by our combined portfolio and 44 0 121 415 7009 0871 384 2255 text phone
