SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Principal Subsidiaries The principal wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group, all of which are unlisted, are shown below.
Registered in England and Wales Name Principal activity Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products Imperial Tobacco Overseas Holdings 3 Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Incorporated overseas Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Altadis S. A. Spain Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products in Spain Altadis Distribution France S. A. S. France Distribution of tobacco products in France 1 Altadis Financial Services, S. N. C. France Finance company Altadis Finland Oy, Finland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Finland Altadis Maroc, S. A. Morocco Manufacture, marketing, sale and distribution of tobacco products in Morocco Altadis Middle East Fzco.
United Arab Emirates Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Middle East 1 Altadis USA Inc. United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of cigars in the United States of America Commonwealth Brands Inc. United States of America Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the United States of America Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista, S. A. Spain Distribution of tobacco products and related services in Spain Dunkerquoise des Blends S. A. France Tobacco processing in France Ets.
L. Lacroix Fils N. V. Belgium Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium Imperial Tobacco Asia Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Marketing and sale of tobacco products in South East Asia Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia Imperial Tobacco CR s. r. o. Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic Imperial Tobacco Hellas S. A. Greece Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Greece Imperial Tobacco Italy Srl, Italy Marketing of tobacco products in Italy Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszg Dohnyforgalmaz Kft, Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary Hungary Imperial Tobacco Mullingar, Republic of Ireland Manufacture of ne cut tobacco in the Republic of Ireland Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand Imperial Tobacco Norway A. S. Norway Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Norway Imperial Tobacco Overseas B. V. the Netherlands Finance company Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Poland Imperial Tobacco Sigara five Tutunculuck Sanayi five Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Turkey Ticaret A. S. Turkey Imperial Tobacco Slovakia A. S. Slovak Republic Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic Imperial Tobacco Tutun Urunleri Satis five Manufacture of tobacco products in Turkey Pazarlama A. S. Turkey Imperial Tobacco Ukraine, Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Ukraine John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland John Player S. A. Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Spain Logista Italia.
S. p. A, Italy Distribution of tobacco products in Italy Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany and export of tobacco products Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China www.
com 131 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Principal Subsidiaries continued Incorporated overseas continued Name and country of incorporation Principal activity OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia Imperial Tobacco Sales & Marketing LLC, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia Skruf Snus AB, Sweden Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Sweden Socit Allumetire Franaise S. A.
S, France Distribution of wholesale in France Socit National dExploitation Industrielle des Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in France and Tabacs et des Allumettes S. A, France export of tobacco products Supergroup S. A.
S, France Distribution of wholesale in France Tobaccor S. A. S. France Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Africa Van Nelle Canada Limited, Canada Manufacture of tubes and sale of tobacco products in Canada Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B. V. the Netherlands Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Netherlands The subsidiaries marked are wholly owned and were held throughout the year with the exception of Skruf Snus AB of which the remaining 57% was acquired in June 2008 and Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. of which the remaining 0.1% was acquired in July 2008.
The remaining wholly owned subsidiaries were acquired through the acquisition of Altadis on 25 January 2008 with the exception of Compaa fide Distribucin Integral Logista, S. A. of which 59.63% was acquired with Altadis, 37.29% acquired on 6 May 2008 and 3.08% acquired on 9 June 2008, and which wholly owns Logista Italia.
The principal partly owned subsidiaries of the Group, with the exception of Altadis Polska, S. A. ZAO Balkanskaya Zvezda and 800 JR Cigar Inc. which were acquired with Altadis, were held throughout the year, are shown below.
All are unlisted unless otherwise indicated.
Incorporated overseas Percentage 1 Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned Altadis Polska, S. A. Poland Manufacture of tobacco products in Poland 96.4 ZAO Balkanskaya Zvezda, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia 99.9 Imperial Tobacco Production Ukraine, Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in Ukraine 99.8 800 JR Cigar Inc. United States of America Holding investments in subsidiary companies 51.0 Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan OJSC, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Kyrgyzstan 98.6 2 Socit Ivoirienne des Tabacs S. A.
Ivory Coast Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Ivory Coast 74.1 Tutunski Kombinat AD, Macedonia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Macedonia 99.1 The principal joint ventures of the Group, acquired on 25 January 2008 through the acquisition of Altadis, are shown below.
Incorporated overseas Percentage 1 Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned Corporacin Habanos, S. A. Cuba Export of cigars manufactured in Cuba 50.0 Altabana S. L. Spain Holding investments in subsidiary companies involved in the marketing and sale of Cuban cigars 50.0 In addition, the Group also wholly owns the following partnership: Name and country Principal activity Imperial Tobacco EFKA GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above.
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings 2007 Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries is held by the Company.
A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.
1 The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Altadis USA Inc. and Altadis Financial Services S. N. C. where the entire issued share capital, and therefore 100% of the voting rights, was held by a number of Group companies.
From late September 2008 Altadis Financial Services S. N. C. is 100% owned by Altadis S. A.
2 Listed on the Stock Exchange of the Ivory Coast.
