DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Where We Operate The acquisition of Altadis has increased our geographic reach and portfolio of brands in both cigarette and other tobacco products.
A stronger international portfolio Imperial Tobacco Cigarette We have pursued a consistent strategy significant growth in the Central European Volumes % of expanding our international footprint markets of Hungary and the Czech Republic this year.
and developing our multi-product portfolio Developed Emerging to create sustainable value for our markets markets Cigar shareholders.
With the acquisition of Altadis we became the global leader in cigar, with sales in This has resulted in a diversied tobacco 40 more than 120 countries worldwide.
We company, with a strong presence within hold around a quarter share of the global the developed markets of the European 60 market and have leadership in the high Union and an increasing share of the value premium cigar sector.
emerging markets of the world.
We are the market leader in France and Some 60 per cent of our cigarette Spain and are the number one in the large volumes now come from the growing cigar segment in the USA in value terms.
Other Tobacco Products Our joint venture, Corporacin Habanos, Cigarette Through brands including Golden Virginia is an exclusive exporter and marketer We combine a strong and growing and Drum, we are the global leader in of Cuban cigars, and offers further cigarette presence in the mature markets ne cut tobacco with the largest market opportunities for the Group to develop of Europe, the USA and Australasia with shares in several countries within the its interests in this segment.
expanding market shares across the European Union.
The largest cigar markets are emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Our acquisition of Lignum 2 during the predominantly in North America and Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
year added the Rave brand to our portfolio Western Europe.
However, we are seeing Our focus is on creating comprehensive and doubled our ne cut tobacco market impressive growth rates in the emerging coverage of key price segments within share in the USA.
markets of Asia, Eastern Europe and the individual markets through our portfolio Middle East.
Fine cut tobacco is growing in response of local, regional and international brands.
to the demand from cigarette consumers Due to the addition of Altadis cigarette downtrading to value for money options.
business, we now have a broader portfolio It is primarily a developed market product of brands with which we can enhance our but we see opportunities for introductions position in both new and existing markets.
into new markets and have achieved 12 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 We are a diversied tobacco company with strong international positions across our key product categories.
CIGARETTE FINE CUT TOBACCO CIGAR We have leading Our portfolio of We are the world cigarette positions brands has given leader in cigar with in markets across us global leadership particular strength Europe, Asia, in the growing in the high value Africa and the ne cut tobacco premium sector.
