Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the future.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from these estimates and assumptions.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Legal Proceedings In accordance with IFRS, the Group recognises liabilities where there is a present obligation from a past event, a transfer of economic benets is probable and the amount of costs of the transfer can be reliably estimated.
In such instances a provision is calculated and recorded in the financial statements.
In instances where these criteria are not met, a contingent liability may be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group: or a present obligation arising from past events that is not recognised in the financial statements because it is not probable that an outow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, or because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
Realisation of any contingent liabilities not currently recognised or disclosed in the financial statements could have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
Application of these accounting principles to legal proceedings, including cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and health-related effects, is inherently difficult, given the complex nature of the facts and law involved.
Deciding whether or not to provide for loss in connection with such claims requires the Groups management to make determinations about various factual and legal matters beyond its control.
The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following developments in the legal proceedings and at each balance sheet date, in order to assess the need for provisions in its financial statements.
Among the factors considered in making decisions on provisions are the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment, the legal processes and potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assessment has been brought, the progress of the case including progress after the date of the financial statements but before those statements are issued, the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, experience of similar cases and any decision of the Groups management as to how it will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment.
To the extent that the Groups determinations at any time do not reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of any claim, its future financial statements may be materially affected, with an adverse impact upon the Groups profit from operations, financial position and liquidity.
The Group is currently involved in a number of legal cases in which claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking and healthrelated effects.
In the opinion of the Groups lawyers, the Group has meritorious defences to these actions, all of which are being vigorously contested.
Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the pending litigation, the Directors believe that the pending actions will not have an adverse effect upon the revenue, profit or financial condition of the Group.
Consequently, in respect of any such cases, the Group has not provided for any amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
In August 2003 the Group received a notice from the Ofce of Fair Trading OFT requiring the provision of documents and information relating to an investigation under UK competition law.
In April 2008 the OFT released a press statement indicating that it proposed to issue a statement of objections SO to a number of retailers and two tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco.
Imperial Tobaccos detailed written response to the SO was submitted to the OFT in August 2008.
An oral hearing has been scheduled for 3 December 2008 for Imperial Tobaccos representatives to make submissions to the OFT in defence of its allegations.
No timetable for the remainder of the OFTs enquiry has been published.
In light of the responses it receives to the SO, the OFT may decide to close the investigation, present additional evidence by issuing a supplemental SO, or proceed to an infringement decision.
In the event that the OFT decides that Imperial Tobacco has infringed UK competition law, it may impose a ne, calculated by reference to ITG turnover.
If the OFT were subsequently to make an infringement nding against ITG, the Group would be able to appeal the nding to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
The CAT has the right to conduct a full rehearing of the facts considered by the OFT and overturn or adjust any penalty that the OFT imposed.
There is a further right to appeal from the CAT to the Court of Appeal, which is limited to appeal on a point of law.
In respect of the OFT enquiry, the Group has not provided for any amounts in the consolidated financial statements in this or any preceding year.
com 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements continued Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Intangible assets other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks and property, plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on managements estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue, and are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
Due to the long lives of certain assets, changes to the estimates used can result in significant variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or depreciation whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results: significant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and significant negative industry or economic trends.
Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indefinite lived assets are subject to impairment review.
The Groups management undertakes an impairment review annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
When it is determined that there is an indicator that the carrying value may not be recoverable, impairment is measured based on estimates of the recoverable amount of the underlying assets of the cash-generating unit.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the application of the Groups accounting estimates in relation to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets affect the amounts reported in the financial statements, especially the estimates of the expected useful economic lives and the carrying values of those assets.
If business conditions were different, or if different assumptions were used in the application of this and other accounting estimates, it is likely that materially different amounts could be reported in the Groups financial statements.
See notes 9 and 10 to these financial statements.
Retirement Benets The costs, assets and liabilities of the dened benefit retirement schemes operating within the Group are determined using methods relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions.
Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 18.
The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions.
It is important to note, however, that comparatively small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the Groups financial statements.
We estimate that a 0.5% increase decrease in the discount rate would increase decrease the IAS19 pension expense by approximately 1 million.
We estimate that a 0.5% decrease increase in the expected return on plan assets would increase reduce the IAS19 pension expense by approximately 16 million.
Restructuring Provisions The consultation process regarding the European integration projects announced in June 2008 is still underway.
As a consequence, the nature, timing and cost of the projects may change.
In addition, estimates of cost are dependent on assumptions about those employees affected, values of redundant, obsolete or surplus assets, and actuarial assumptions around pension adjustments and social plan costs.
Comparatively small changes in assumptions used may have a significant effect on the eventual cost of the projects.
Income Taxes The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions and significant judgement is required in determining the provision for tax.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
See note 6 to these financial statements.
