Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 115 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These Financial statements are prepared for Inchcape plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Company is the ultimate parent entity of the Inchcape Group the Group.
Accounting convention These Financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate profit and loss account is presented for the Company.
In addition, the Company is not required to prepare a cash ow statement under the terms of FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements revised.
Going Concern In determining whether the Company is a going concern, the Directors have reviewed the Companys current financial position and have prepared detailed financial projections.
These projections reect the recent unprecedented downturn in economic conditions and credit availability across the Companys operations, the actions already taken to restructure the business and the plans in place to focus operations on the five core priorities of growing market share, growing aftersales, managing working capital and reducing overheads and capital expenditure see page 8.
The projections also assume that: new car sales will continue to decline in 2009 and will not begin to recover until the second half of 2010: the service and parts business will be more resilient to the downturn: lower UK interest rates will continue: key brand partners will remain in production and supply on normal terms of trade: and there will be no further significant downturn in the global economic environment.
These projections, even after allowing for headroom to accommodate a reasonable downside scenario including weaker trading and adverse movements in currency and interest rates, indicate that the Company would be able to manage its operations so as to remain within its current facilities and in compliance with its banking covenants.
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
As such, the Company continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial statements.
Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at closing rates of exchange and are taken to the profit and loss account.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less provisions for impairment.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full without discounting based on current tax rates and law, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in the future except as otherwise required by FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of xed assets where there is no binding commitment to sell the asset.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders funds until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholdersfunds.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the Financial statements until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Share-based payments The Company operates various share-based award schemes.
The fair value at the date at which the share-based awards are granted is recognised in the profit and loss account together with a corresponding increase in shareholdersequity on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
For equity settled share-based awards, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the awards granted.
With the exception of the Save as you earnscheme, the vesting of all share-based awards under all schemes is solely reliant upon non-market conditions therefore no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Where an employee cancels aSave as you earnaward, the charge for that award is recognised as an expense immediately, even though the award does not vest.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 20 Share-based Payment, no charge has been recognised for grants of equity instruments made before 7 November 2002.
Financial instruments The adoption by the Company of FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures has had no impact as the Company has taken advantage of the exemption not to apply FRS 29 in its own Financial statements.
The Groups policies on the recognition, measurement and presentation of financial instruments under IFRS 7 are set out in the Groups accounting policies on pages 62 to 67. www.
