62 Financial statements Accounting policies The consolidated Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Accounting convention The consolidated Financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, except for the retention of certain freehold properties and leasehold buildings at previously revalued amounts which were treated as deemed cost on transition to IFRS and the measurement of certain balances at fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
Going concern In determining whether the Group is a going concern, the Directors have reviewed the Groups current financial position and have prepared detailed financial projections.
These projections reect the recent unprecedented downturn in economic conditions and credit availability across the Groups operations, the actions already taken to restructure the business and the plans in place to focus operations on the five core priorities of growing market share, growing aftersales, managing working capital and reducing overheads and capital expenditure see page 8.
The projections also assume that: new car sales will continue to decline in 2009 and not begin to recover until the second half of 2010: the service and parts business will be more resilient to the downturn: lower UK interest rates will continue: key brand partners will remain in production and supply on normal terms of trade: and there will be no further significant downturn in the global economic environment.
These projections, even after allowing for headroom to accommodate a reasonable downside scenario including weaker trading and adverse movements in currency and interest rates, indicate that the Group would be able to manage its operations so as to remain within its current facilities and in compliance with its banking covenant.
Accordingly, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
As such, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Changes in accounting standards A number of new standards, amendments and interpretations are effective for the first time for 2008.
The Group has adopted, with effect from 1 January 2008, the amendment to IAS 23Borrowing Costsand the IFRIC interpretations noted below.
The amendment to IAS 23 removes the option of immediately expensing borrowing costs that are directly attributable to a qualifying asset.
Under IAS 23, such costs are required to be capitalised as part of the cost of the relevant asset.
The Group has adopted the amended standard on a prospective basis from 1 January 2008.
The impact of adoption on the results for the year ended 31 December 2008 is disclosed in notes 11 and 12 of the consolidated Financial statements.
IFRIC 14The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interactionhas been adopted with effect from 1 January 2008.
This interpretation provides guidance on how to assess the limit on the amount of surplus in a dened benefit scheme that can be recognised as an asset under IAS 19 Employee Benets.
The application of this Standard has affected one of the dened benefit pension schemes of the Group, with the full effect being recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in the year.
This is disclosed in note 5 of the consolidated Financial statements.
In addition IFRIC 11Group andTreasury ShareTransactionsis effective, but has not had a material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
IFRS 8Operating Segmentsreplaces IAS 14Segmental Reportingand requires operating segments to be disclosed on the same basis as that used for internal reporting.
It is required to be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2009 and will not have an impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
At the balance sheet date, a number of IFRSs, IAS and IFRS amendments and IFRIC interpretations were in issue but not yet effective.
Effective for the Groups financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2009 are: IAS 1Presentation of Financial Statements 2007 : the amendment to IFRS 2Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations: amendments to IAS 32Financial Instruments: Presentationand IAS 1Presentation of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation: and IFRIC 13Customer Loyalty Programmes.
Effective for the Groups financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2010 are IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statementsand IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations.
These new and revised Standards and Interpretations have not been and will not be early adopted by the Group and, with the exception of the revised IFRS 3, are not expected to have a material impact on the financial position and results of the Group.
IFRS 3 Revised, Business combinations effective from 1 July 2009 continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
These include all payments to purchase a business being recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classied as debt subsequently remeasured through the consolidated income statement.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs should be expensed.
The Group will apply IFRS 3 Revised prospectively to all business combinations from 1 January 2010.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated Financial statements comprise the Financial statements of the parent Company Inchcape plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings dened as where the Group has control, together with the Groups share of the results of its joint ventures dened as where the Group has joint control and associates dened as where the Group has significant inuence but not control.
The results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are consolidated as of the same reporting date as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 63 The results of subsidiaries are consolidated using the purchase method of accounting from the date on which control of the net assets and operations of the acquired company are effectively transferred to the Group.
Similarly, the results of subsidiaries disposed of cease to be consolidated from the date on which control of the net assets and operations are transferred out of the Group.
Where the Group acquires the minority interest in a subsidiary, the excess of the purchase cost over the book value of the minority interest is recorded as an addition to goodwill.
No fair value exercise is performed for the acquisition of the minority interest.
Where the Group acquires a controlling interest in a subsidiary with a contractual obligation to purchase the remaining minority, the acquired company is accounted for as a 100% subsidiary, with the liability for the purchase of the remaining minority interest recorded as deferred consideration.
Subsequent changes to estimates of the deferred consideration are recorded as additions reductions to the amount of goodwill arising on acquisition.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method, whereby the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in shareholdersequity are recognised in shareholdersequity.
If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has contractual obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
Foreign currency translation Transactions included in the results of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated Financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is Inchcape plcs functional and presentational currency.
In the individual entities, transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the individual transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are subsequently retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated income statement, except those arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings used to finance or hedge foreign currency investments which on consolidation are taken directly to shareholdersequity.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The income statements of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the average rates of exchange for the period.
Exchange differences arising from 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of shareholdersequity.
On disposal of a foreign operation any cumulative exchange differences held in shareholdersequity are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
Revenue and cost of sales Revenue from the sale of goods and services is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable, net of rebates and any discounts and includes lease rentals as well as finance and insurance commission.
It excludes sales-related taxes and intra-Group transactions.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benets will ow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when vehicles or parts are invoiced and physically dispatched or when the service has been undertaken.
Revenue from commission is recognised when receipt of payment can be assured.
Where a vehicle is sold to a leasing company, and a Group company retains a residual value commitment to buy back the vehicle for a specified value at a specified date, the significant risks and rewards of ownership are not judged to have been transferred.
These vehicles are retained within property, plant and equipment on the consolidated balance sheet at cost, and are depreciated to their residual value over the life of the lease.
Total revenue on a leased vehicle comprises the difference between consideration received and residual value.
This sits as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet and is released to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
The residual value commitment, which reects the price at which the vehicle will be bought back, is held within trade and other payables, according to the date of the commitment.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Cost of sales includes the expense relating to the estimated cost of self-insured warranties offered to customers.
These warranties form part of the package of goods and services provided to the customer when purchasing a vehicle and are not a separable product.
Share-based payments The Group operates various share-based award schemes.
The fair value at the date at which the share-based awards are granted is recognised in the consolidated income statement together with a corresponding increase in shareholdersequity on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
For equity settled share-based awards, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the awards granted.
With the exception of the GroupSave as you earnscheme, the vesting of all share-based awards under all schemes is solely reliant upon non-market conditions therefore no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Where an employee cancels aSave as you earnaward, the charge for that award is recognised as an expense immediately, even though the award does not vest.
Finance costs Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Borrowing costs are capitalised from the first date on which the expenditure is incurred for the asset, borrowing costs are incurred and activities are undertaken to prepare the asset for its intended use.
A Group capitalisation rate is used to determine the magnitude of borrowing costs capitalised on each qualifying asset.
This rate is the weighted average of Group borrowing costs, excluding those borrowings made specically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
com 64 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Income tax The charge for current income tax is based on the results for the period as adjusted for items which are not taxed or disallowed.
It is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is accounted for using the liability method in respect of temporary differences arising from differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Financial statements.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference is due to goodwill arising on a business combination, or to an asset or liability, the initial recognition of which does not affect either taxable or accounting income.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled using rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to shareholdersequity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in shareholdersequity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle balances net.
Exceptional items Items which are both material and non-recurring are presented as exceptional items within their relevant consolidated income statement category.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Examples of events which may give rise to the classication of items as exceptional include gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, restructuring of businesses, litigation, asset impairments and exceptional tax-related matters.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a business combination over the Groups share of the fair value of identiable net assets of the business acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised at cost and is held in the currency of the acquired entity and revalued at the closing exchange rate at each balance sheet date.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition the goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested at least annually for impairment.
Gains and losses on disposal of a business include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business sold in determining the gain or loss on disposal, except for goodwill arising on business combinations on or before 31 December 1997 which has been deducted from shareholdersequity and remains indefinitely in shareholdersequity.
Other intangible assets Intangible assets, when acquired separately from a business including computer software, are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost of the asset over its estimated useful life, which in the case of computer software is three to five years.
Amortisation is recognised in the consolidated income statement within net operating expenses.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination including back orders and customer contracts are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
These intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful life, which is generally less than a year.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase price and directly attributable costs of the asset and includes, where relevant, capitalised borrowing costs.
Depreciation is based on cost less estimated residual value and is provided, except for freehold land which is not depreciated, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
For the following categories, the annual rates used are: Freehold buildings and long leasehold buildings 2.0% Short leasehold buildings shorter of lease term or useful life Plant, machinery and equipment 5.0% 33.3% Vehicles subject to residual value commitments over the lease term The residual values and useful lives of all assets are reviewed at least at each balance sheet date.
Impairment Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
In addition, goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested at least annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use calculations are performed using cash ow projections, discounted at a pre-tax rate which reects the asset specic risks and the time value of money.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 65 A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement withinnet operating expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited againstnet operating expensesin the consolidated income statement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Used vehicles are carried at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell, generally based on external market data available for used vehicles.
Vehicles held on consignment which are deemed in substance to be assets of the Group are included within inventories with the corresponding liability included within trade and other payables.
Inventory can be held on deferred payment terms.
All costs associated with this deferral are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
The major schemes are dened benefit pension funds with assets held separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benets under the plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments are included in cost of sales or net operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the benets have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets of funded dened benefit pension plans and the imputed interest on pension plan liabilities comprise the post-retirement benefit element of finance costs and finance income in the consolidated income statement.
Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense in full in the period in which they arise.
The Groups contributions to dened contribution plans are charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
The Group also has a liability in respect of past employees under post-retirement healthcare schemes which have been closed to new entrants.
These schemes are accounted for on a similar basis to that for dened benefit pension plans in accordance with the advice of independent qualied actuaries.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation in respect of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted when the time value of money is considered to be material, using an appropriate risk free rate on government bonds.
Disposal group and assets held for sale Where the Group is actively marketing the disposal of a business within one year of the balance sheet date, the assets and liabilities of the associated businesses are separately disclosed on the consolidated balance sheet as a disposal group.
Assets are classied as assets held for sale if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
Both disposal groups and assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Financial instruments The Group classies its financial instruments in the following categories: loans and receivables: available for sale: held at fair value: and amortised cost.
The classication is determined at initial recognition and depends on the purpose for which the financial instruments are required.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except where the maturity date is more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Held at fair value includes derivative financial assets and liabilities, which are further explained below.
They are classied according to maturity date, within current and non-current assets and liabilities respectively.
Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets, and comprise bonds and equity investments.
They are classied as non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of them within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Amortised cost is the residual category and includes non-derivative financial assets and liabilities which are held at original cost, less amortisation or provision raised.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term bank deposits.
In the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents, as dened above, net of bank overdrafts.
com 66 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to the consolidated income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are classied as operating leases.
Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Offsetting Balance sheet netting only occurs to the extent that there is the legal ability and intention to settle net.
As such, bank overdrafts are presented in current liabilities to the extent that there is no intention to offset with the cash balance.
Derivative financial instruments An outline of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the Group in relation to its financial instruments is set out in the Principal business risk factors section of the Financial review.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a rm commitment fair value hedge : or hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash ow hedge : or hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the consolidated income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The Group only applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging xed interest risk on borrowings on its cross-currency interest rate swaps and future xed amount currency liabilities.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging xed rate borrowings and changes in the fair value of those borrowings are recognised in the consolidated income statement within finance costs.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is also recognised in the consolidated income statement within finance costs.
Cash ow hedge For cash ow hedges that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gains or losses on the hedging instrument that are determined to be an effective hedge are recognised directly in shareholdersequity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When the hedged forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in shareholdersequity are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash ow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in shareholdersequity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged forecast transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
Net investment hedge The Group uses borrowings denominated in foreign currency to hedge net investments in foreign operations.
These are accounted for similarly to cash ow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity: the gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement in net operating expenses.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the consolidated income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument which have been recognised in shareholders equity are kept in shareholdersequity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses that have been recognised in shareholdersequity are transferred to the consolidated income statement for the period.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated income statement.
Investments The Groups investments are classied as available for sale or held to maturity where management has a positive intention and ability to hold the asset to maturity.
Gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised in shareholdersequity, until the investment is sold or is considered to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in shareholdersequity is included in the consolidated income statement as part of net operating expenses.
Held to maturity financial assets are carried at amortised cost.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 67 Share capital Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Where the Group purchases the Groups equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholdersequity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholdersequity.
Dividends Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end are not recognised in the consolidated Financial statements until they have been approved by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
significant accounting judgements and estimates Judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, the Directors have made the following judgements, apart from those involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated Financial statements.
Revenue recognition on vehicles subject to residual value commitments Where the Group sells vehicles, sourced from within the Group, and retains a residual value commitment, the sale is not recognised on the basis that the Group has determined that it retains the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these vehicles.
Consignment stock Vehicles held on consignment have been included in nished goods inventories on the basis that the Group has determined that it holds the significant risks and rewards attached to these vehicles.
Estimates The key assumptions concerning the future and other sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Product warranty provision The product warranty provision requires an estimation of the number of expected warranty claims, and the expected cost of labour and parts necessary to satisfy these warranty claims.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets The net retirement benefit asset or liability is calculated based on a number of actuarial assumptions as detailed in note 5.
A number of these assumptions involve a considerable degree of estimation, including the rate of ination and expected mortality rates.
Tax The Group is subject to income taxes in a number of jurisdictions.
Some degree of estimation is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are a number of transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
In addition, the recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent upon an estimation of future taxable profits that will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
In the event that actual taxable profits are different, such differences may impact the carrying value of such deferred tax assets in future periods.
Goodwill Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out above.
The recoverable amount of cash-generating units is determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates including projected future cash ows.
Residual value commitments The Group has residual value commitments on certain leased vehicles.
These commitments are an estimate of future market value at a specified point in time.
The actual market value of vehicles bought back may vary from the committed purchase value.
