Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2008 19 Subsidiaries The listing below shows the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2008 which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of investments which are not significant have been omitted.
A full list of the subsidiaries will be included in the Companys annual return.
Country of registration Company and incorporation Principal activity Ordinary shares held Taylor & Francis Group LLC USA Publishing 100% Taylor and Francis Group Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% Informa Healthcare AS Norway Publishing 100% Informa Healthcare AB Sweden Publishing 100% Agra Informa Limited England and Wales Conference organisation and publishing 100% Euroforum BV Netherlands Conference organisation and publishing 100% Euroforum Deutschland Holding GmbH Germany Conference organisation and publishing 100% IBC Asia S Pts Limited Singapore Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa USA Inc USA Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa UK Limited England and Wales Conference organisation and publishing 100% Informa Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% MMS Group Holdings Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% PJB Publications Limited England and Wales Holding company 100% I. I. R. Holdings Limited Bermuda Holding company 100% 1 Robbins-Gioia LLC USA Performance improvement 100% AchieveGlobal Inc USA Performance improvement 100% ESI International Inc USA Performance improvement 100% I. I. R. Limited England and Wales Conference organisation 100% Institute for International Research Inc USA Conference organisation 100% The Forum Corporation of North America USA Performance improvement 100% Huthwaite Inc USA Performance improvement 100% IIR Deutschland GmbH Germany Conference organisation 100% Institute for International Research IIR BV Netherlands Conference organisation 100% Datamonitor Limited England and Wales Business information 100% 1 The holding in Robbins-Gioia is structured by proxy agreement with certain powers retained by the proxy holders to among others, protect the national security interests of the government of the United States of America.
Of the above only Informa Holdings Limited, MMS Group Holdings Limited, PJB Publications Limited, Taylor & Francis Group Limited and I. I. R. Holdings Limited are directly owned by Informa plc.
The proportion of voting power held is the same as the proportion of ownership interest.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of all entities controlled by the Company as at 31 December each year.
Refer to Note 3 for further description of the method used to account for investments in subsidiaries.
66 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
