UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2008 1 Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
The Directors Report, Corporate Governance and Directors Remuneration Report disclosures have been made in the Group Annual Report of Informa plc.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
The combined financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
Software which is not integral to a related item of hardware is included in intangible assets.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, payroll and payroll related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote substantial time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its internal purpose.
When the assets come into use, these costs are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives which are deemed to be 3-10 years.
The expected useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of tangible fixed assets in equal instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Leasehold land and buildings Over life of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 - 15 years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the net sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in income.
Share-based payments The Company issues equity settled share-based payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The fair value is measured using the Binomial or Monte Carlo model of valuation, which are considered to be the most appropriate valuation techniques.
The valuation takes into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
To assign a fair value to share awards granted under the Share Matching Plan where the proportion of the award released is dependent on the level of total shareholder return, the Monte Carlo Simulation methodology is considered the most appropriate.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straight line basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will actually vest.
The estimate of vesting is reviewed annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Investments held by the Company in subsidiaries and joint ventures denominated in foreign currencies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the Balance Sheet date only to the extent they are designated within a cost of investment hedging arrangement.
96 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2008 1 Accounting Policies continued Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Companys Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Investments Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
At subsequent reporting dates, debt securities that the Company has the expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity held-to-maturity debt securities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment loss recognised to reflect irrecoverable amounts.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, and is measured as the difference between the investments carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
Impairment losses are reversed in subsequent periods when an increase in the investments recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, subject to the restriction that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed shall not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised.
All other investments are classified as available for sale, and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Profit and Loss Account for the period.
Impairment losses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for equity investments classified as available for sale are not subsequently reversed through the Profit and Loss Account.
Impairment losses recognised in the Profit and Loss Account for debt instruments classified as available for sale are subsequently reversed if an increase in the fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the recognition of the impairment loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible with a maturity of three months or less to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Profit and Loss Account using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 97 UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2008 1 Accounting Policies continued Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Companys holding activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The derivative instruments utilised by the Company to hedge these exposures are primarily interest rate swaps.
The Company does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The Board set the Companys treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Companys businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Group is exposed.
All external hedging is performed by the Company Treasury function.
Company Treasury acts as a service centre operating under the clearly defined regulation of the Board.
The Company monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Profit and Loss Account.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as they arise.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Profit and Loss Account for the year.
Finance costs Finance costs of debts are capitalised against the debt value on first drawdown of the debt and are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account at a constant rate over the life of the debt.
ESOP trust shares Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trusts in connection within certain of the Companys employee share schemes.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance Sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
98 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
