Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the Year Ended 31 December 2008 1 General Information Informa plc is a company incorporated in England under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on page 18.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in Note 6 and in the Principal Activities and Business Review sections of the Directors Report on page 17.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in Note 3.
Adoption of new and revised Standards In the current year, two interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period: IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction The adoption of these Interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but have not yet come into effect: IFRS 1 amended IAS 27 amended Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate IFRS 2 amended Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and Cancellations IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business Combinations IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 1 revised 2007 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 23 revised 2007 Borrowing Costs IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 32 amended IAS 1 amended Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for: additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009: and treatment of acquisition of subsidiaries when IFRS 3 comes into effect for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
2 Basis of Preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
Management believe that adjusted operating profit Note 8 and adjusted earnings per share Note 15 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term adjusted is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
The principal adjustments made are in respect of: Restructuring costs the costs incurred by the Group in reorganising and integrating acquired businesses, non-recurring business restructuring, closure or disposal of businesses and costs associated with Board level changes: Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible fixed assets the Group continues to amortise these intangible fixed assets and test for impairment of these assets but does not see these charges as integral to underlying trading: Finance income and costs gains losses made on exchange contracts for hedging capital transactions which do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement: Bank facility fees written off capitalised facility fees are amortised over the loan periods but where syndicated loan facilities have been terminated early and new facilities undertaken on funding major acquisitions, the unamortised fees are immediately expensed.
This accelerated expense is not viewed as being part of operating activities and is thus excluded from the adjusted results: and Discontinuing activities where the Group is in the process of exiting a major geographical location or line of business, having announced the decision but still being in the process of winding down trade.
The Groups operations are split into three broad market sectors of Academic & Scientific, Professional, and Commercial.
These divisions are further analysed into more specific segments which bring together products in comparable market areas under common business heads.
This is how the Groups operational management is structured and its results are reviewed and thus form the primary reporting segments Note 6.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 45
