Shareholder Information Registrars Informas Registrar is Equiniti.
The Shareholder Helpline run by Equiniti is available between Monday and Friday, 8.30 am to 5.00 pm.
This helpline deals with various share related queries.
They also offer a free online service which enables you to: View and manage all of your shareholdings: Register for electronic communications: Buy and sell shares instantly online with the dealing service: and Other shareholder services such as change of address, transfer shares or replace a lost certificate.
co. uk for further information.
You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
Global payments service This service provided by Informas Registrar enables shareholders to have dividend payments paid directly into their bank account in their chosen local currency.
To view terms and register for this service, please visit www.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Informa pays a dividend to all shareholders twice each year.
Shareholders can elect to receive shares instead of cash from their dividend allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Shareholders can also arrange for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to a UK bank or building society account through the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
For the benefit of shareholders resident in any of the eurozone countries, the Company offers the option to receive dividends in euros.
CREST Electronic Proxy Voting The Company will be accepting proxy votes through the CREST Electronic Proxy Voting system.
Share Dealing If shareholders wish to buy or sell any Informa shares, they can do so by calling the Companys Brokers, Natwest Stockbrokers, on 0808 208 4433.
Instructions on how to deal will be provided over the phone.
The helpline is open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm UK time, Monday to Friday, except Bank Holidays.
ShareGift ShareGift Registered Charity no.
1052686 is an independent charity which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
ShareGift is particularly designed to accept unwanted shares and uses the ultimate proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities.
Over 11m has been given by ShareGift so far to over 1,400 different UK charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be found on their website, www.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 109 Shareholder Information continued Electronic shareholder communication As part of Informas Corporate Social Responsibility programme and in particular our ongoing commitment to reduce our environmental impact, we offer all shareholders the opportunity to elect to register for electronic communications.
For further information please visit www.
Protecting your investment from share register fraud Informa plc is legally obliged to make its share register available to the general public.
Consequently some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail, including correspondence from unauthorised investment companies.
Over the last year a number of companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be extremely persuasive and very persistent.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
uk register: Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234: and Informa our Registrars on 0871 384 2381.
Tips on protecting your shareholding Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee: Keep all correspondence from the Registrars in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding it: If you change address inform the Registrars.
If you receive a letter from the Registrars regarding a change of address and you have not recently moved, contact them immediately: Know when the dividends are paid and consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank contact the Registrars.
If you change your bank account, inform the Registrars of the details of your new account.
Respond to any letters the Registrars send to you about this: and If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
110 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
