Officers and Advisers V. Dr Pamela Kirby 12 Non-Executive Director 55 Dr Kirby is currently Chairman of Scynexis Inc. a privately held chemistry-focused drug discovery and development company based in the US.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc and Novo Nordisk A S. VI.
She was previously the Non-Executive Chairman of Oxford ImmuNotec Limited and was the CEO of US-based Quintiles Transnational Corporation.
Prior to joining Quintiles, Dr Kirby held various senior positions in the pharmaceutical industry at Astra AB now AstraZeneca plc, British Biotech plc now Vernalis plc and F. Hoffman-La Roche Limited.
She has a PhD in Clinical Pharmacology from the University VII.
Dr Kirby was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2004.
She chairs the Remuneration Committee and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
She was also appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive VIII.
John Davis Key: V. Dr Pamela Kirby 13 Non-Executive Director 47 VI.
John Davis John Davis has been Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc VII.
He previously held positions within Pearson Plc, where he was latterly Group Finance Director of the FT Group, 1 Member of Nomination Committee and Emap plc, which he joined in 1989, where he was Director 2 Member of Remuneration Committee of Corporate Finance and Treasury between 1995 and 1997.
3 Member of Audit Committee John Davis is a Chartered Accountant, having qualified at Price Waterhouse and has a Masters in Management from the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 October 2005.
He chairs the Nomination Committee and is a member of Company Secretary the Audit Committee.
Dr Brendan ONeill John Burton 23 Non-Executive Director 60 Company Secretary 44 John Burton is a solicitor and was formerly for eight years a Dr ONeill is a Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc, partner at CMS Cameron McKenna.
In that role, he advised Tyco International Inc, Watson Wyatt Worldwide Inc and the Group in relation to the LLP and IBC merger in 1998, of Endurance Speciality Holdings Limited.
From 1999 to the acquisition of PJB Publications in 2003, the Taylor & 2003 he was Chief Executive of ICI plc.
Prior to joining ICI Francis merger in 2004 and the IIR acquisition and rights in 1998 he was an Executive Director of Guinness plc with issue in 2005.
He was appointed as Group General Counsel responsibility for the Guinness Groups worldwide brewing and Company Secretary in June 2006.
He was also Non-Executive Director of Emap plc Director of Greenbottle Limited.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2008.
He chairs the Audit Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 15 Officers and Advisers Auditors Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Financial Advisers Greenhill & Co. International LLP Lansdowne House 57 Berkeley Square London W1J 6ER Stockbrokers RBS Hoare Govett Limited Merrill Lynch International 250 Bishopsgate Merrill Lynch Financial Centre London EC2M 4AA 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Public Relations Maitland Orion House 5 Upper St Martins Lane London WC2H 9EA Principal Solicitors CMS Cameron McKenna LLP Ashurst LLP Mitre House Broadwalk House 160 Aldersgate Street 5 Appold Street London EC1A 4DD London EC2A 2HA Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 3QQ 16 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
