UK GAAP Parent Company Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2008 16 Financial Instruments The Companys activities expose it mainly to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
The Companys policy is to hedge these exposures as explained further below using primarily interest rate swaps.
Treasury policy The Board sets the Companys treasury policy to ensure that it has adequate financial resources to develop the Companys businesses and to manage the currency and interest risks to which the Company is exposed.
The Company mainly uses interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures.
All external hedging is performed by the Treasury function.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Where a derivative in whole or in part cannot be designated in an effective hedge relationship any gain or loss arising on the undesignated portion of the derivative is immediately recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Those derivative financial instruments or portions thereof that are not designated in a hedge relationship are classified as held for trading.
The Treasury function acts as a service centre operating under the clearly defined regulation of the Board.
The Company monitors the distribution of its cash assets, borrowings and facilities so as to control exposure to the relative performance of any particular territory, currency or institution.
Funding and cash management The Company primarily borrows at short-term variable rates under its multi-currency loan facilities.
These borrowings are guaranteed by material subsidiary companies.
In connection with the acquisition of Datamonitor plc, in July 2007 the Company arranged for a new five year loan agreement, becoming effective upon the acquisition of Datamonitor plc in July 2007 and comprised of two facilities: A - Term loans of GBP 400.5m, USD 798m and EUR 171m: B - Multi-currency revolving credit facility of GBP 500m.
The previously existing loan facility was cancelled at the same time.
Operationally, cash pooling arrangements have been organised in primarily GBP, EUR and USD to minimise interest payable on net overdrafts and or maximise interest receivable on net surplus balances.
Cash flows Historically and for the foreseeable future the Company has been and is expected to continue to be in a net borrowing position.
The Companys policy is to fulfil its borrowing requirements by borrowing in the currencies in which it operates, principally GBP, USD and EUR: thereby providing a natural hedge against projected future surplus USD and EUR cash inflows as well as spreading the Companys interest rate profile across a number of currencies.
In addition, GBP denominated borrowings serve to reduce the exposure of the debt to EBITDA banking covenant to movements in exchange rates in respect of currency denominated debt.
Therefore the Company seeks to maintain GBP denominated borrowings in the range of 25% - 50% of total borrowings, including where necessary, the selling of USD and EUR for GBP on a regular basis.
In addition, if a significant foreign currency denominated future transaction or cash flow is projected, then the Company may utilise forward foreign exchange contracts to help hedge the associated risk.
Foreign currency risk Allied to the Companys above policy on the hedging of surplus foreign currency cash inflows, the Company will usually seek to finance its cost of investment in its principal overseas subsidiaries by borrowing in those subsidiaries functional currencies, primarily EUR and USD.
This policy has the effect of protecting the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheet from movements in those currencies to the extent that the associated net assets exceed the net foreign currency borrowings.
Interest rate risk The Company seeks to minimise its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by using interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges to hedge up to 90% of forecast interest payments over a period of up to five years, based on forecast net debt levels by currency during that period.
This policy provides a level of certainty of future interest costs by swapping floating costs to fixed interest payments which in turn assists the predictability of achieving interest-based loan covenants.
Contracts with nominal value of 1,011,437,000 2007: 935,207,000 have fixed interest payments at an average rate of 4.90% 2007: 4.98% for periods up until 28 Sept 2012 and have floating interest receipts at LIBOR plus 0%.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 103
