Legal Notices Notice regarding limitations on the liability of Directors under English Law Under the UK Companies Act 2006, the liability of the Directors of Informa plc is limited in respect of statements in and omissions from the Directors Report contained on pages 2 to 40.
Under English law the Directors can be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Directors Report contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but can not otherwise be liable.
Pages 2 to 40 inclusive comprise the Directors Report which has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English law and the potential liability of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by English law.
Notice concerning forward-looking statements This Annual Report and written information released, or oral statements made, in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Groups current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Statements contained in this document are based on the knowledge and information available to the Companys Directors at the date it was prepared and therefore the facts stated and views expressed may change after that date.
To the extent that this document contains any statement dealing with any time after the date of its preparation such statement is merely predictive and speculative as it related to events and circumstances which are yet to occur.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Group warns investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk and Uncertainties on pages 20 to 23 of this Annual Report.
com gives additional information on the Group.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
108 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
