Corporate and Risk Information The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The details of the business, the development of the Group and its subsidiaries and likely future developments are set out in pages 2 to 40 of this document.
Notices concerning the limitations on the liability of the Directors and concerning forward looking statements are set out on page 108.
Principal Activities Informa plc and its subsidiary undertakings provide specialist information to the academic & scientific, professional and commercial communities globally through publishing, events and performance improvement PI.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Business Review The information that fulfils the requirements of the enhanced business review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and which form part of this report by reference, are included in the following sections of the Annual Report: information about the development and performance of the business of the Company during the financial year and future prospects is set out in the Chief Executives Review on pages 8 to 10: principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 20 to 23: details of the principal subsidiaries are set out in Note 19: and the results for the year are explained in detail in the Financial Review and are summarised in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 42 and the related Notes.
In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group, a review is included within Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are no significant differences between the market value of any interests in land of the Group and the amount at which those interests are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As a whole the Annual Report provides information about the Groups businesses, its financial performance during the year and likely future developments.
Other than as described in this report, there have not been any significant changes to the Groups principal activities during the year under review and the Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes in the Groups activities in the new financial year.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date.
Dividends The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.9p per ordinary share be paid on 3 July 2009 to ordinary shareholders registered as at the close of business on 29 May 2009 which, together with the interim dividend of 6.10p per ordinary share paid on 19 September 2008, makes a total for the year of 10p per ordinary share 2007: 16.9p.
Directors The names of Directors, are set out on pages 14 to 15, which includes brief biographical details.
The following changes to the Board have taken place during 2008: Dr ONeill joined the Board as Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2008: David Gilbertson ceased to be Chief Executive on 17 March 2008: Peter Rigby was re-appointed as Chief Executive on 17 March 2008: Derek Mapp was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 17 March 2008: Dr Kirby was appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 17 March 2008: and Adam Walker was appointed as Finance Director and joined the Board on 28 March 2008.
The remuneration and interests in the share capital of the Company of the Directors who held office as at 31 December 2008 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 40.
Except for Sean Watson, who retires from the board in 2009, all the Directors offer themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the next AGM.
Details of the contracts of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors with the Company can be found on page 36.
No Director was materially interested in any contract of significance.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 17 Corporate and Risk Information continued Directors Indemnities As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its Directors and employees providing for compensation for loss of office of employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company has purchased and maintains Directors and Officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any act or omission by its Directors and officers in the execution of their duties.
Registration The Companys registered office is at Mortimer House, 37-41 Mortimer Street, London, W1T 3JH.
The Company is registered in England and Wales under number 3099067.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on 8 May 2009.
The notice is being despatched as a separate document.
Charitable and Political Contributions The Group made charitable donations during the year of 247,359 2007: 208,464, principally to local charities serving some of the communities in which the Group operates.
No political donations were made.
Supplier Payment Policy The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms, provided that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Trade payables of the Group at 31 December 2008 were equivalent to 46 days purchases 2007: 50 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Substantial Shareholdings and Companies Act 1985 Schedule 7 Disclosures As at 2 March 2009, the Company had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs of the Financial Services Authority FSA of the following substantial interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares % held FMR LLC Fidelity 55,380,804 13.02 Prudential plc 40,519,491 9.53 Legal & General Group plc 33,827,389 7.95 Standard Life Investments Ltd 25,386,811 5.97 As at 2 March 2009, the Companys issued share capital comprised 424,118,833 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 0.1p each.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with movements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 27 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which can be found at www.
Subject to the applicable statutes, any share may be issued with or have attached to it such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or, if no such resolution is in effect or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holders of ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts and, subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
18 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate and Risk Information continued Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of a person who is not a minor, bankrupt or a person in respect of whom an order has been made on the ground that such person is suffering from a mental disorder or is otherwise incapable of managing their affairs: or iv in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from CREST.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : 2 pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Companys shares: and 3 where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
There are no agreements between holders of ordinary shares that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Shares are from time to time held by a trustee in order to satisfy entitlements of employees to shares under the Groups share schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust are no more than sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Groups share schemes for one year.
The shares held by these trusts do not have any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
While these shares are held on trust their rights are not exercisable directly by the relevant employees.
The current arrangements concerning these trusts and their shareholdings are set out on page 38.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid nor any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid except for the Groups banking facilities described in Note 26.
The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company can remove a director from office, including by passing an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given or by notice being given by not less than three quarters of the other Directors being not less than three in number.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company including to borrow money up to an aggregate of three times a formula based on adjusted capital and reserves and unamortised goodwill.
The Company may by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance with its Articles and applicable statutes.
The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution approved at a GM.
Purchase of Own Shares At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a shareholders resolution passed on 15 May 2008, to purchase through the market up to 42,489,780 of the Companys ordinary shares.
The minimum price which may be paid for each share is 0.1p: the maximum excluding expenses which may be paid per share is not more than the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for a share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately before the day on which it purchases that share and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2009.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 19 Corporate and Risk Information continued Employee Consultation The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and continues to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved principally through formal and informal meetings, email updates and via the Companys global intranet site, which is regularly updated and includes a facility enabling employees anonymously to ask questions of executive management to which answers are also published.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
Each year, staff surveys are sent out to provide employees with an opportunity to explain how the Company is performing as a business.
For the past few years staff have been requested to rate the Companys performance under each of its core values.
The survey will be expanded in 2009 to include more questions on the working environment within Informa.
All employees worldwide are also invited periodically to attend webinars, take part in live on-line polls, and ask the Executive Directors questions about the business and its future.
The webinars, including the results of the polls, are posted on the Companys intranet so that those employees who are unable to attend can view them.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP, an Inland Revenue Approved All Employee Share Incentive Plan offering UK employees the opportunity to purchase annually up to 1,500 of shares in the Company out of pre-tax salary.
In addition, from 2008, all US employees are eligible to participate in the Companys US Employee Stock Purchase Plan which offers US employees the opportunity to purchase annually up to $2,940 of shares in the Company at a 15% discount to the prevailing market price.
Disabled Employees Informa believes in an equality of opportunity for all employees based on merit and that no employee or job applicant should receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of: age, sex, marital status, disability, colour, race, religion, nationality or ethnic origin.
Informas divisions are all disabled friendly business operations.
The Company employment policy is to give full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Company objective is the continued provision of suitable employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate training being given if necessary.
Employees with disabilities share in equal opportunities for training, promotion and career development.
Risks and Uncertainties A number of factors risk factors affect the Groups operating results and financial condition.
In common with other information providers, the Groups profitability depends in part on the prevailing economic environment and the strength of the academic, professional and business communities to which it sells.
In addition, the Groups profitability is dependent on maintaining a strong and highly motivated management team, maintaining brand reputation, quality of information and its ability to use and protect the security of its marketing databases.
This section describes some of the principal risk factors that the Directors believe could materially affect the Group.
The Group adopts a risk management process that is monitored by the Board and which is intended to ensure a consistent and coherent approach to the risk factors that are described in this section and to those other risk factors that may arise or which may become material in the future.
The Group operates in a highly competitive and innovative environment The markets for the Groups products and services are highly competitive and innovative.
In its events business, this may lead to a reduction in the number of delegates and or the volume of events and the availability of sponsorship.
In its academic, specialist and professional publications business, this could lead to pricing pressure and, in turn, reduced profit margins.
In addition, the market for online delivery of information is extremely competitive and the Group is not alone in innovating and experimenting with new business models in this area.
There is therefore no assurance that the Groups investment in these new delivery methods will deliver satisfactory long term returns and that technological innovation may more generally render some of its existing products and services partially or wholly obsolete.
The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management or other key employees The failure to attract or retain key employees could seriously impede the financial plans, growth and other objectives of the Group.
The success of the Group depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of its senior management but also on the individuals and teams that service its customers and maintain its client relationships.
The Directors believe that the Groups future success will depend, to a large degree, on its ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train, manage and motivate its employees.
20 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate and Risk Information continued 3.
The Group is exposed to the risks of doing business internationally and the expansion into new geographic regions presents new risk factors specific to these regions The Groups international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating in different countries.
These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding conflicts between the intent of various terms of the Groups client service contracts with global clients and possible interpretations of those terms based on local laws and business practices or changes to them: and changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets.
The occurrence of any of these events or conditions could adversely affect the Groups ability to increase or maintain its operations in various countries.
In addition, doing business in emerging markets including for example India and China presents new logistical and management challenges whether related to local legislation, business cultures, languages compliance, restrictions on repatriation of earnings and changes in specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions.
This results in control, operational and reputational risks for the Group.
Damage to reputation and or brand could lead to an adverse impact on the Group The Groups businesses are in part dependent on the success of their branded publications and events.
These brands are important in attracting high quality contributors, advertising revenues, speakers, delegates and sponsorship.
If the reputation, customer experience or quality of any of the Groups major publications, PI businesses or larger events was to be damaged then there could be an adverse impact on the Group.
The Groups businesses could be adversely affected by general or specific economic downturns or declines or disruptions in industries to which it provides information The markets in which the Group operates are sensitive to both general economic and business conditions and can be affected by the condition of specific geographics and industries and interest groups such as the professional, financial services, life sciences, technology, pharmaceuticals, telecommunications and maritime industries.
Some geographics and some of these industries have in the past been sensitive to various potential disruptions such as government regulation, war, terrorism, disease, natural disasters and other significant adverse events.
A general decline in economic conditions or disruptions in specific industries characterised by falls in spending on published materials could cause a material decline in revenue and profit.
The Group could be impacted if changes in the academic journal business model were widely adopted in the academic publishing market An alternative business model called open access has been put forward that would allow libraries to access all publications freely rather than the current system of acquiring journals from publishers.
If this model were to be widely adopted, there could be a material adverse impact on this part of the Groups business.
The Group continues to monitor the situation and position itself to respond to changes in the academic markets information requirements.
Low barriers to entry in parts of the Groups market Smaller publishing events and training course markets have relatively low barriers to entry that can lead to rival operators establishing competing events in the Groups core markets.
There are several competitors who have the financial resources to establish rival products and services in larger such markets.
Competitive pressures may adversely affect the financial performance of the Groups PI businesses The Groups PI businesses are subject to significant competitive pressures from large consulting firms on the one hand and small competitors on the other in relation to certain parts of these businesses where the barriers to entry may be low.
These businesses also place substantial reliance upon high quality sales people that can be difficult to attract and retain.
In addition, the Robbins-Gioia business operates under a Proxy Board Arrangement under the US Exxon-Florio Act which limits the amount of control that the Group can exert over this business.
In addition, the ability of the Group to grow the Robbins-Gioia business outside of the United States could be restricted.
The Groups results may be impacted by exchange rate fluctuations The Group operates in over 70 countries and is therefore exposed to foreign currency rate fluctuations.
Comparability of the Groups business between financial targets can be significantly affected by fluctuations in the Pound Sterling against other currencies, particularly against the US Dollar and the Euro.
Goodwill and other acquired intangibles recorded on the Groups balance sheet with respect to acquired companies may become impaired The Group tests for impairment annually or more frequently if there are indications of impairment.
Goodwill and intangibles are allocated to the cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination that gave rise to these assets.
The goodwill and intangibles assets of each cash generating unit are compared to the recoverable amounts that have been determined from value in use calculations.
Accordingly, impairments may be recognised where value in use falls significantly.
Further details regarding the Groups impairment testing procedures can be found in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 21 Corporate and Risk Information continued 11.
The Group has exposure to various risks from its use of financial instruments These risks include capital risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are described in detail in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Changes in tax laws or their application may adversely impact the Groups reported results The Group operates in a large number of countries and its earnings are subject to tax in many jurisdictions.
Tax law and practice that applies to the Group may alter and changes may materially and adversely affect the Groups earnings and financial conditions.
The Groups intellectual property rights could be challenged and enforcement of those rights could be costly A substantial element of the Groups products and services comprise intellectual property content delivered through a variety of media, including journals, books, printed training materials and the internet.
Whilst the Group relies on intellectual property laws to establish and protect its proprietary rights in these products and services, it cannot be certain that its proprietary rights will not be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented.
Despite intellectual property protection laws, third parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from its proprietary rights without the Companys authorisation.
As regards online content, whilst there is certain internet-specific copyright legislation in many jurisdictions, there remains significant uncertainty as to its scope and enforceability.
In the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, copyright laws are increasingly coming under legal challenge and the Group faces the significant challenges posed by third parties including both existing competitors and organisations in the new media IT sectors taking advantage of these legal developments to obtain the ability to host Group content.
Changes in government legislation may have a material adverse effect on Group revenues Changes in government legislation in several different industries may have a material adverse effect on the Group.
In particular, the Group relies on the pharmaceutical industry for a significant proportion of its publishing subscription revenues.
Changes in government health policies, for example on the use of generic drugs or reimbursement prices, could adversely affect pharmaceutical companies and in turn lead to reduced spending by such pharmaceutical companies on subscription based products.
Regulatory pressures may also affect pharmaceutical companies' ability or willingness to sponsor continuing medical education events and further impact on Group's revenue lines.
In addition, from time to time, governments, government agencies and industry self-regulatory bodies in the United States, European Union and other countries in which the Group operates have adopted statutes, regulations and rulings that directly or indirectly affect the form, content and scheduling of publishing, the staging of events or otherwise affect the activities of the Group and its customers.
Although the Group does not expect any existing or proposed regulations to impact materially and adversely on the Groups business, the Group is unable to estimate the effect on its future operations of the application of existing statutes or regulations or the extent or nature of future regulatory action.
Data protection and security of databases could be compromised The Group has valuable databases.
If these were damaged or accessed by a competitor then the ability of the Group to operate and access these databases could be adversely impacted.
This could have a material adverse impact on the Groups revenue and profits.
In addition, access to these databases could enable one of the Companys competitors to compete more effectively.
Compliance with data protection legislation The Group is required to comply with growing levels of data protection and privacy legislation governing increasing areas of its businesses.
The need to comply with data protection legislation is a significant control, operational and reputation risk which can affect the business in a number of ways including, for example, making it more difficult to grow and maintain marketing data and also through potential litigation relating to the alleged misuse of personal data.
There can be no guarantee of compliance at all times.
Internet and electronic delivery platforms, networks or distribution systems The Groups businesses are increasingly dependent on electronic platforms and distribution systems, primarily the internet, for delivery of their products and services.
The Groups ability to use the internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third party internet providers or increased government regulation.
If disruptions, failures, or slowdowns of the Groups electronic delivery systems or the internet occur, its ability to distribute its products and services effectively and to serve its customers may be adversely affected.
22 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Corporate and Risk Information continued 18.
The Group may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future acquisitions The Group regularly reviews potential acquisitions of businesses that are complementary to its businesses.
As part of the review and where permitted by the target business, the Group conducts business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in any particular transaction.
Despite the Groups efforts, it may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks.
As a result, it might not realise the intended advantages of any given acquisition.
If the Group fails to realise the expected benefits from one or more acquisitions, the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.
The cost of providing pension benefits to existing and former employees is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing mortality The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and overseas.
It is the Group's policy to offer defined contribution pension provision to its new employees.
The cost of providing these benefits to existing and former employees is subject to changes in the pension fund values as a result of changes in economic conditions, demographic experience, movements in interest rates, the investment performance of the pension scheme's assets and the longevity of the pension scheme's members.
Sustained falls in equity markets and reductions in bond yields have and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the value of the Group pension schemes.
There is an exposure in the event that asset returns are insufficient to cover changes in the pension schemes' liabilities over time.
The Group may be unable to collect balances due from any customer that becomes insolvent Certain parts of the Group provide services in advance of receipt of payment.
If one or more of these purchasers became insolvent the Group may be unable to collect balances due to it on a timely basis or at all.
The damages, costs, expenses or legal fees arising from the lack of payment could have an adverse effect on the Groups prospects, business, results of operations and financial condition.
The reputation of the Group may also be negatively affected.
The Group may have difficulty repatriating the earnings of its subsidiaries Any payment of dividends, distributions, loans or advances to Group by its subsidiaries could be subject to restrictions on, or taxation of, dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable local law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdictions in which Groups subsidiaries operate.
If the Group is unable to repatriate the earnings of its subsidiaries it could have an adverse impact on Groups ability to redeploy earnings in other jurisdictions where they could be used more profitably or to pay dividends to shareholders.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of the approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of the information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 23 Corporate and Risk Information continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 14 to 15, are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IAS 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year a company's financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Board's Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12, the Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the review of the business includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by John Burton Company Secretary 4 March 2009 24 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
