2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with governing the preparation and dissemination of financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
EU IFRSs and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
Company law Directors responsibility statement requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in We confirm to the best of our knowledge that: accordance with IFRSs, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
1. the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, whole: and other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and 2. the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers Business Review, expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation review of the development and performance of the business of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair and the position of the Company and the undertakings presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
properly select and apply accounting policies: By order of the Board present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Andrew Sukawaty understandable information: and Chairman and Chief Executive officer provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 12 March 2009 specic requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other Rick Medlock events and conditions on the entitys financial position and Chief Financial officer financial performance.
12 March 2009 The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and Applicable Law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards are followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is appropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
47 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
