104 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Investor information Registrar Changes to the base cost of IHG shares For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings and for Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held information on a range of shareholder services please contact since April 2003 up to December 2008, for UK Capital Gains Tax the Companys Registrar, Equiniti details shown on page 105. purposes, may be found on the Companys website at www.
com cgt Website and electronic communication Corporate Responsibility Report Following changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006, as part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost and IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report for environmental impact of producing and distributing printed 2008 covering progress on a range of environmental, social and documents in very large quantities, IHGs Annual Report and community issues.
This is available on our corporate website Annual Review have been made available to the majority of and can be downloaded directly at www.
com responsibility shareholders through the Companys website www.
com investors under financial library.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Shareholders may appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and behalf on any poll that may be held at the forthcoming Annual traded under the symbol IHG.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST may appoint proxies through the CREST electronic proxy Each ADR represents one ordinary share.
All enquiries regarding appointment service, by using the procedures described in the ADR holder accounts and payment of dividends should be directed CREST manual.
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. the authorised depositary bank details shown on page 105. Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company o ers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for Form 20-F shareholders to purchase additional IHG shares with their cash The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the dividends.
For further information about the DRIP, please contact Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and les our Registrar, Equiniti details shown on page 105. with the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be found on the Companys website www.
com investors Shareholder security under shareholder centre shares and dividends adr or by visiting Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have the SECs website at www.
shtml received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, o ering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the Financial Services Authority website www.
uk Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
Share price information Share price 2008: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC v FTSE 100 1,000 900 800 700 600 500 400 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Share price FTSE 100 Index Source: Datastream Further details of IHGs share price may be found on the Companys website at www.
com investors under share price.
