56 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies General information Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements The consolidated financial statements of InterContinental Hotels of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.
Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2008 All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated.
were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 16 February 2009.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are the Company is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in consolidated for the period during which they were under the England and Wales.
Foreign currencies Summary of significant accounting policies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the Basis of preparation functional currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates The consolidated financial statements of IHG have been prepared of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in at the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. date.
All foreign exchange differences arising on translation are The Group early adopted International Financial Reporting recognised in the income statement except on foreign currency Interpretations Committee Interpretation 14 IAS 19 The Limit borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to the currency their Interaction IFRIC 14 at 31 December 2007.
IFRIC 14 provides translation reserve until the disposal of the net investment, at guidance on assessing the limit in International Accounting which time they are recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
Standard 19 Employee Benefits IAS 19 on the amount of the The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
The 31 December 2007 are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange balance sheet has subsequently been restated to show the ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of retirement benefit assets net of tax of $17m previously recorded foreign operations are translated into US dollars at average rates within deferred tax payable.
There have been corresponding of exchange for the period.
The exchange differences arising on changes to the actuarial gains and related tax reported in the the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation restated Group statement of recognised income and expense reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative for the year ended 31 December 2007.
There is no change to amount recognised in the currency translation reserve relating previously reported net assets or income.
to that particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain Other new accounting standards and interpretations issued by or loss on disposal.
the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the Derivative financial instruments and hedging International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted IFRIC, becoming effective during the year, have not had a for in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
The material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Groups detailed accounting policies with respect to hedging Change in presentational currency instruments are set out in note 21.
Documentation outlining the The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars measurement and effectiveness of the hedging arrangement is following a management decision to change the reporting currency maintained throughout the life of the hedge relationship.
Any from sterling during the year.
The change has been made to reflect ineffective element of a hedge arrangement is recognised in the profile of the Groups revenue and operating profit which financial income or expense.
are now primarily generated in US dollars or US dollar-linked Interest arising from currency swap agreements is taken to currencies.
All comparative information has been restated into financial income or expense on a gross basis over the term of US dollars and values are rounded to the nearest million $m the relevant agreements.
Interest arising from other currency except where otherwise indicated.
derivatives and interest rate swaps is taken to financial income The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 or expense on a net basis over the term of the agreement.
on transition to IFRS and this reserve has been re-presented on Foreign exchange gains and losses on currency derivatives are the basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date.
recognised in financial income and expense unless they form Equity share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares part of effective hedge relationships.
held by employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange on the balance sheet date: the resultant The fair value of derivatives is calculated by discounting the exchange differences are recorded in other reserves.
expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling since this is a non-trading holding company located in the United Kingdom that has sterling denominated share capital and whose primary activity is the receipt and payment of interest on sterling denominated inter-company balances.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies 57 Property, plant and equipment Other intangible assets Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts and any impairment.
and franchise agreements are capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years on a straightBorrowing costs are not capitalised but will be, if material, line basis.
from 1 January 2009 on adoption of the amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
Internally generated development costs are expensed unless forecast revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
at which time they are capitalised and amortised over the life of Land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment the asset.
are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or lives, namely: changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and not be recoverable.
fixtures, fittings and equipment three to 25 years.
Associates All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to is reassessed annually.
exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value Associates are accounted for using the equity method unless the may not be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate independent associate is classified as held for sale.
Under the equity method, cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
If carrying the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Groups values exceed estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cashshare of post-acquisition profits and losses.
When the Groups generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell carrying amount is reduced to $nil and recognition of further losses and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred future cash flows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time of an associate.
value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Financial assets On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two of property, plant and equipment at deemed cost as permitted following categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial financial assets.
Management determines the classification on Reporting Standards.
initial recognition and they are subsequently held at amortised cost loans and receivables or fair value available-for-sale financial Goodwill assets.
Interest on loans and receivables is calculated using the Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being the effective interest rate method and is recognised in the income excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date of statement as interest income.
Changes in fair values of availableacquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities for-sale financial assets are recorded directly in equity within the and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill unrealised gains and losses reserve.
On disposal, the accumulated is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
fair value adjustments recognised in equity are recycled to the Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing income statement.
Dividends from available-for-sale financial carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable assets are recognised in the income statement as other operating amounts.
Intangible assets Financial assets are tested for impairment at each balance sheet Software date.
If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the Acquired software licences and software developed in-house are difference between original cost and fair value is transferred from capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring equity to the income statement to the extent of any cumulative loss to use the specific software.
Costs are amortised over estimated recorded in equity, with any excess charged directly to the income useful lives of three to five years on a straight-line basis.
Management contracts Financial liabilities When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a management Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the or franchise contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part effective interest rate method.
A financial liability is derecognised of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of the when the obligation under the liability expires, is discharged contract entered into.
The value of management contracts is or cancelled.
amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to Inventories 50 years on a straight-line basis.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
58 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies continued Trade receivables Provisions Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation provision for impairment.
It is the Groups policy to provide for 100% as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be of the previous months aged receivables balances which are more made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can be made.
Adjustments to the policy may be made If the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision due to specific or exceptional circumstances when collection is no is discounted.
The carrying amount of the receivable Bank and other borrowings is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value in the provision are recognised in the income statement within cost of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction of sales.
When a previously provided trade receivable is costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.
charges, including issue costs, are charged to the income Cash and cash equivalents statement using an effective interest rate method.
Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments is more than 12 months from the balance sheet date or where they with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily are drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant Retirement benefits risk of changes in value.
Defined contribution plans In the cash flow statement cash and cash equivalents are shown Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and income statement as they fall due.
form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Defined benefit plans Assets held for sale Plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit as held for sale when their carrying amount will be recovered method and discounting at an interest rate equivalent to the principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent use and a sale is highly probable.
currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The difference between the value of plan assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying is the amount of surplus or deficit recorded on the balance sheet amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
An asset is recognised when the employer Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some point during classified as held for sale.
the life of the plan or on its wind up.
If a refund would be subject to a tax other than income tax, as is the case in the UK, the asset is Trade payables recorded at the amount net of the tax.
Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the year is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making Loyalty programme improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement The hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, enables on a straight-line basis over the period during which any increase members to earn points, funded through hotel assessments, in benefits vests.
To the extent that improvements in benefits vest during each stay at an IHG branded hotel and redeem the points at immediately, the cost is recognised immediately as an expense.
a later date for free accommodation or other benefits.
The future redemption liability is included in trade and other payables and Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between is estimated using eventual redemption rates determined by the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: actuarial methods and points values.
differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the The Group pays interest to the loyalty programme on the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
accumulated cash received in advance of redemption of the Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised points awarded.
in the Group statement of recognised income and expense.
Self insurance Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years and The Group is self-insured for various insurable risks including are updated for material transactions and other material changes general liability, workers compensation and employee medical in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest and dental coverage.
Insurance reserves include projected rates up to the balance sheet date.
settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims.
Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends and actuarial data.
GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies 59 Taxes Share-based payments Current tax The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior measured by reference to fair value at the date at which the shares periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from are granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using or paid to the tax authorities including interest.
The tax rates and option pricing models.
tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which Deferred tax any performance or other conditions are fulfilled, ending on the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value award vesting date.
of assets and liabilities, including accelerated capital allowances, The income statement charge for a period represents the unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from overseas where movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and the Group does not control remittance, gains rolled over into end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not replacement assets, gains on previously revalued properties ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon and other short-term temporary differences.
a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be other performance conditions are satisfied.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is reassessed The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of at each balance sheet date.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in respect of equity-settled awards Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, based on 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005. rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Leases Revenue recognition Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement Revenue is derived from the following sources: owned and leased on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
properties: management fees: franchise fees and other revenues Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group which are ancillary to the Groups operations, including technology substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of fee income.
the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, with Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease normal course of business and recognised when services have payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction been rendered.
The following is a description of the composition of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement of revenues of the Group.
so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from asset and the lease term.
owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and Disposal of non-current assets beverages are sold.
The Group recognises the sales proceeds and related gain or loss on disposal on completion of the sales process.
In determining Management fees earned from hotels managed by the whether the gain or loss should be recorded, the Group considers Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
whether it: Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is associated with asset ownership: generally based on the hotels profitability or cash flows.
Revenue is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated terms of the contract.
with asset ownership: and can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
Franchise fees received in connection with the license of the Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue.
Revenue is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the terms of the agreement.
60 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Accounting policies continued Discontinued operations Loyalty programme the future redemption liability included in Discontinued operations are those relating to hotels sold or those trade and other payables is estimated using actuarial methods classified as held for sale when the results relate to a separate based on statistical formulae that project the timing of future line of business, geographical area of operations, or where there point redemptions based on historical levels to give eventual is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of business redemption rates.
or geographical area of operations.
Trade receivables a provision for impairment of trade receivables is made on the basis of historical experience and other factors Exceptional items considered relevant by management.
The Group discloses certain financial information both including and excluding exceptional items.
The presentation of information Other the Group also makes estimates and judgements in the excluding exceptional items allows a better understanding of valuation of management and franchise agreements acquired the underlying trading performance of the Group and provides on asset disposals, the valuation of financial assets classified as consistency with the Groups internal management reporting.
available-for-sale, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims Exceptional items are identified by virtue of either their size or and in the valuation of share-based payment costs.
nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to New standards and interpretations assess underlying trends in financial performance.
Exceptional The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses interpretations with an effective date after the date of these on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, financial statements.
They have not been adopted early by the restructuring costs and the release of tax provisions.
Group and will be adopted in accordance with the effective date.
Use of accounting estimates and judgements The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these The preparation of financial statements requires management standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Groups reported income or net assets in the period of adoption.
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amendment and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the Effective from 1 January 2009 reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting IFRS 3R Business Combinations period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under Effective from 1 July 2009 different assumptions and conditions.
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and The estimates and assumptions that have the most significant Discontinued Operations Amendment effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: Effective from 1 July 2009 Impairment the Group determines whether goodwill is impaired IFRS 8 Operating Segments on an annual basis or more frequently if there are indicators of Effective from 1 January 2009 impairment.
Other non-current assets, including property, plant IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendment and equipment, are tested for impairment if there are indicators Effective from 1 January 2009 of impairment.
Impairment testing requires an estimate of future IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Amendment cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate and, in the Effective from 1 January 2009 case of hotels, an assessment of recoverable amount based on comparable market transactions.
IAS 27R Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Effective from 1 July 2009 Retirement and other post-employment benefits the cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial Effective from 1 July 2008 valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, Effective from 1 October 2008 mortality rates and future pension increases.
Note: the effective dates are in respect of accounting periods Tax provisions for tax accruals require judgements on the beginning on or after the date shown.
interpretation of tax legislation, developments in tax case law and the potential outcomes of tax audits and appeals.
In addition, deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax attributes to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised.
Judgement is required as to the amount that can be recognised based on the likely amount and timing of future taxable profits, taking into account expected tax planning.
Deferred tax balances are dependent on managements expectations regarding the manner and timing of recovery of the related assets.
