102 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Glossary Adjusted excluding the effect of exceptional items, Interest rate swap an agreement to exchange fixed for gain loss on disposal of assets and any floating interest rate streams or vice relevant tax.
Average daily rate room revenue divided by the number of Management contract a contract to operate a hotel on behalf room nights sold.
Also known as average of the hotel owner.
Market capitalisation the value attributed to a listed company Basic earnings per share profit available for IHG equity holders by multiplying its share price by the divided by the weighted average number number of shares in issue.
of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Midscale hotel a hotel in the three four star category Capital expenditure cash expended on purchases of property, eg Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express.
plant and equipment and purchases of Net debt borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
intangible assets, associate investments and other financial assets.
Occupancy rate rooms occupied by hotel guests, expressed as a percentage of rooms Cash-generating unit a portfolio of similar assets that are subject that are available.
to the same economic and commercial influences.
Operating profit margin operating profit before exceptional operating items expressed as a Comparable RevPAR a comparison for a grouping of hotels that percentage of revenue.
have traded in all months in both financial years being compared.
Principally excludes Pipeline hotels rooms that will enter the Groups new hotels, hotels closed for major system at a future date.
A new property refurbishment and hotels sold in either only enters the pipeline once a contract of the two years.
has been signed and the appropriate fees paid.
In rare circumstances, a hotel will Contingent liability a liability that is contingent upon the not open for reasons such as the financing occurrence of one or more uncertain being withdrawn.
Revenue per room revenue divided by the number of Continuing operations operations not classified as discontinued available room room nights that are available can be and including acquisitions made during RevPAR mathematically derived from occupancy the year.
rate multiplied by average daily rate.
Currency swap an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, Room count number of rooms owned, leased, managed each denominated in a different currency, or franchised by IHG.
for an agreed period of time.
Room revenue revenue generated from the sale of Derivatives a financial instrument used to reduce risk, room nights.
the price of which is derived from an underlying asset, index or rate.
Royalty rate the percentage of room revenue that a franchisee pays to the brand owner for Discontinued operations operations that have been sold and assets use of the brand name.
classified as held for sale when the results relate to a separate line of business, Subsidiary undertaking a company in which the Group holds an geographical area of operations, or where equity stake and over which it exercises there is a coordinated plan to dispose control.
of a separate line of business or System size the number of hotels rooms owned, geographical area of operations.
leased, managed or franchised by IHG.
Exceptional items items which are disclosed separately Technology fees charges to hotels under management because of their size or nature.
and franchise agreements for the use Extended-stay hotel a hotel designed for guests staying for s proprietory reservation system.
of IHG periods of time longer than a few nights Total gross revenue total room revenue from franchised hotels and tending to have a higher proportion of and total hotel revenue from managed, suites than normal hotels eg Staybridge owned and leased hotels.
Total Shareholder the theoretical growth in value of a Franchisee operator who uses a brand under licence Return TSR shareholding over a period, by reference from the brand owner eg IHG.
to the beginning and ending share price, Franchisor brand owner eg IHG who licenses brands and assuming that gross dividends, for use by operators.
including special dividends, are reinvested to purchase additional units of the equity.
Goodwill the difference between the consideration given for a business and the total of the Upscale hotel a four five star full-service hotel fair values of the separable assets and characterised by superior service liabilities comprising that business.
Hedging the reduction of risk, normally in relation UK GAAP United Kingdom generally accepted to foreign currency or interest rate accounting practice.
movements, by making offsetting Working capital the sum of inventories, receivables and commitments.
payables of a trading nature, excluding IFRS International Financial Reporting financing items such as corporate taxation.
