USEFUL INFORMATION Investor information and Financial calendar 105 Financial calendar Highlights 2008 Payment of interim dividend of 6.4p per share 12.2 cents per ADR 3 October Financial year end 31 December 2009 Preliminary announcement of annual results 17 February Final dividend of 20.2p per share 29.2 cents per ADR : Ex-dividend date 25 March Record date 27 March Total system room revenue Announcement of first quarter results 12 May Record net room additions Total gross revenue from divided by the number Annual General Meeting 29 May all hotels in IHG system of room nights available.
Final dividend of 20.2p per share 29.2 cents per ADR : Payment date 5 June up 20% at 34,757 rooms Total room revenue from Announcement of interim results 11 August up 7% to $19.1bn franchised hotels and total Interim dividend: Payment date October hotel revenue from managed, Total hotels open under Announcement of third quarter results 10 November owned and leased hotels not IHG brands Continuing revenue Financial year end 31 December revenue attributable to IHG, as it is derived mainly from 2010 hotels owned by third parties.
up6% to 4,186 hotels up5% to $1,854m Preliminary announcement of annual results February Operating profit before exceptional items.
Signings Includes the benefit of four Continuing operating profit significant liquidated damages receipts totalling $33m.
of98,886 rooms, up13% to $535m No such individually Registered office Registrar ADR depositary Designed and produced 693 hotels significant receipts in 2007. by Likemind Broadwater Park Equiniti JPMorgan Chase & Co The Groups reporting currency Denham Aspect House PO Box 64504 www.
com taking development pipeline Adjusted continuing earnings changed from sterling to Buckinghamshire Spencer Road St. Paul US dollars in 2008.
Dividends per share Printed by UB9 5HR Lancing MN 55164-0504 are now determined in to245,085 rooms, Royle Print West Sussex USA US dollars and converted Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 1,775 hotels up26% to 117.8 BN99 6DA into sterling immediately Telephone 800 990 1135 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 before announcement.
This Report is printed Telephone 0871 384 2132 US callers toll free www.
com The sterling final dividend on 9lives 80 Silk which UK callers Revenue per available room Final dividend maintained 1 651 453 2128 equivalent is 20.2p per share.
For general information about is made up of 60% FSC 44 121 415 7034 non-US callers the Groups business please post-consumer recycled non-UK callers Email: up0.9% at29.2 contact the Corporate Affairs fibre, 20% pre-consumer www.
com department at the above recycled fibre and 20% www.
For all other enquiries FSC virgin fibre from For those with hearing difficulties please contact the Company FSC managed forests.
a text phone is available on Stockbrokers 0871 384 2255 for UK callers Secretariat at the above Our printer is also FSC with compatible equipment.
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited address or email and Carbon Neutral Telephone calls to these numbers Bank of America Merrill Lynch companysecretariat@ihg.
are currently charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Auditors Other telephone service providers may charge different rates.
Ernst & Young LLP Investment bankers Citi JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Bank of America Merrill Lynch Caught on camera Front cover photography: Solicitors This year we asked our employees to Left: Photo by Centre: Photo by Right: Launch of the Linklaters LLP Iaki Armada, taken Amy Valentine, taken ANA Crowne Plaza take their own pictures and capture at Holiday Inn Express at Holiday Inn Express Sleep Advantage what Great Hotels Guests Love Getafe, Madrid, Spain Salt Lake City, Utah, USA programme in means to them.
Our front cover The beds are so The hands forming a Osaka, Japan For further investor features some of these.
comfortable that heart around the hotel information visit some days you just sign represent the people www.
com investors dont want to get out.
that make Holiday Inn Express a great hotel guests love.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park Denham, Buckinghamshire, UB9 5HR Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 Holiday Inn Hotel & Suites Oakland-Airport, California, USA make a booking at www.
com Great Hotels Guests Love IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Great Hotels Guests Love IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Great Hotels Guests Love is not just a snappy slogan.
Its a guide to our actions and our way of doing business.
It puts our guests at the very heart of everything we do.
Its about developing great hotels and brands that stand out from the competition.
Its about doing things differently and delivering great service.
Its about taking guests by surprise going beyond what they expect so they stay with us and recommend us to others.
Read all about how we have been working hard throughout 2008 to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
Inside... page8 page12 A great guest experience, We pride ourselves on every time giving our employees Caught on camera Room to be yourself This year we asked our employees to We want our guests to enjoy take their own pictures and capture their stay and to come back again.
Find out how were tackling what Great Hotels Guests Love Read about what were doing the war for talent and attracting means to them.
We had a fantastic to stand out from the crowd.
the best people to work for us.
response and hope that youll find the photographs we feature, marked by the icon above, as engaging and inspiring as we have.
Front cover photography: Left: Photo by Charles Yap, taken at InterContinental Paris Le Grand, France Our recently retired chief concierge, Gilles Harrault, shows off some of the tools of the trade.
He says Im often scribbling on maps and need to make sure I never run out of ink.
Centre: Photo by Amy Hu, taken at Holiday Inn Shanghai Vista, Peoples Republic of China Holiday Inn is one of the very first English words my three-year-old son learnt to say.
And he really loves the relaunched brand!
Right: Photo by Tejas Lakhani, taken at Holiday Inn Gem Park, Ooty, India All guests are given a royal welcome, making them feel like they have arrived at a palace they can call home.
OVERVIEW HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES 1 OVERVIEW 2 Highlights 3 Chairmans statement page18 page32 4 Chief Executives review 5 Statement from the IAHI, The Owners Association Continuing operating profit HOW WE OPERATE up 13% 6 How it works to $535 million 7 Seven great hotel brands Before exceptional items.
8 Guest experience 10 Driving demand One big world 2008 results 12 Our people 14 Responsible business An overview of the number A summary of our financial of hotels in our system performance during the year 16 Corporate reputation and development pipeline.
and a range of statutory, governance and other helpful information for shareholders.
WHERE WE OPERATE 18 Global overview 20 The Americas 24 Europe, Middle East and Africa 28 Asia Pacific FACTS AND FIGURES 32 Summary financial statement 36 Our senior leadership team 38 Summary Directors report 39 Corporate governance 40 Summary remuneration report 44 Investor information 45 Financial calendar 2 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Highlights Revenue per available room up 0.9% Total gross revenue from all hotels in IHG system up 7% to $19.1bn Continuing revenue up 5% to $1,854m Continuing operating profit up 13% to $535m The Americas EMEA Asia Pacific $451m $171m $68m 2007 $440m 2007 $134m 2007 $63m Record 34,757 net room additions Opened over one new hotel a day Signed almost two new hotels a day Final dividend maintained at 29.2 Total system room revenue divided by the number of room nights available.
Total room revenue from franchised hotels and total hotel revenue from managed, owned and leased hotels not revenue attributable to IHG, as it is derived mainly from hotels owned by third parties.
Includes four significant liquidated damages receipts totalling $33m: $13m in Americas, $16m in EMEA, $4m in Asia Pacific.
No such individually significant receipts in 2007.
Operating profit before exceptional items.
The Groups reporting currency changed from sterling to US dollars in 2008.
Dividends are now determined in US dollars and converted into sterling immediately before announcement.
The sterling final dividend equivalent is 20.2p per share.
OVERVIEW Chairmans statement 3 Chairmans statement Dear shareholder PERFORMANCE 2008 was a good Our continuing revenue increased 5 per cent to $1.9 billion, with continuing operating year for IHG.
profit before exceptional items of $535 million, up 13 per cent.
Adjusted continuing We grew both earnings per share increased 26 per cent from 93.8 cents to 117.8 cents.
We had a sales and profits, $132 million exceptional charge in the year.
This consisted of $35 million in relation to the Holiday Inn relaunch: $19 million of cost savings-related severance charges: outperforming the $96 million of non-cash asset impairments, reflecting the poorer trading environment industry in all our expected in 2009: and other items including gains on asset sales, which netted to an major markets, $18 million credit.
and we have The Board is recommending that the final dividend for 2008 is maintained at 29.2 cents been preparing per share, taking the full-year dividend to 41.4 cents per share, up 2 per cent on 2007.
This converts to a sterling full-year dividend of 26.6 pence, up 29 per cent over 2007. the business for a tougher REPORTING CURRENCY environment We changed the reporting currency of our Group accounts from sterling to US dollars with our 2008 half-year results.
This means we can reflect better the Groups profile in 2009. of revenues and operating profits which are largely US dollar-based.
BOARD AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Stevan Porter 19542008 We were all deeply saddened by the loss of Steve Porter, a Board member and President of the Americas, who passed away in August 2008 after a short illness.
Under Steves inspired leadership the Americas region has been established as a dominant force.
We must thank Richard Solomons, Finance Director, for taking on the additional role of leading the Americas region when Steve became seriously ill in July.
Richard did an outstanding job, ensuring a smooth transition to Jim Abrahamson, who was appointed as our new President of the Americas in January this year.
Jim joined IHG from Global Hyatt Corporation, where he was Head of Development, The Americas.
Two of our Non-Executive Directors, Sir David Prosser and Robert Larson, retired from the Board in May and December 2008, respectively.
I thank them for their excellent service and contribution.
George Turner became Company Secretary in January 2009, taking over from Richard Winter who retires in April 2009.
I thank Richard for his service over the past 15 years and wish him well for the future.
FINANCIAL POSITION AND SHAREHOLDER RETURNS We continue with our prudent approach to managing our balance sheet.
We successfully refinanced our debt facilities in May 2008, and have lowered our overall net debt position by $400 million to $1.3 billion.
During the year, we continued with our existing share buyback programme, taking the total funds returned since March 2004 to more than 3.5 billion.
We have deferred the remaining 30 million of the buyback programme in order to preserve cash and maintain the strength of our balance sheet.
OUTLOOK Our solid performance in 2008 can be attributed to the exceptional efforts of all our people.
Trading will undoubtedly be tough in 2009, but our strong balance sheet, resilient business model, great brands and excellent management team, led by Andy Cosslett, give me continued confidence in the future for the Group.
David Webster Chairman Before exceptional items.
4 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Chief Executives review BUSINESS SUMMARY During 2008 In the year, we continued to grow sales, profits and revenue per available room we witnessed RevPAR the industrys main performance measure which rose again, up unprecedented 0.9 per cent globally.
Throughout the year, we saw RevPAR outperformance in all events in the world our key markets, but in line with the industry we experienced a sharp downturn in the fourth quarter when our RevPAR declined 6.5 per cent.
In spite of a number of actions to prepare the business for the tougher environment ahead.
this, it was a good Sadly this has involved some redundancies across the Group.
We ACCELERATED ROOMS GROWTH benefited from our We opened a record 430 hotels during 2008, including 115 hotels in the fourth strategy to focus quarter, when the economic conditions had worsened significantly.
on franchising and We were pleased to beat our target to add 50,000-60,000 net rooms within three managing hotels years and in the end we added more than 82,000 rooms to the system a great and beat our three achievement.
We signed 693 hotels, 98,886 rooms, into our forward development pipeline during the year.
More than 25,000 of these rooms were signed in the year net rooms fourth quarter, demonstrating the continuing appetite that owners and guests growth target by have for our brands all around the world.
At the same time, we continued to over 35 per cent.
focus on improving quality and we removed 193 hotels from our system.
Overall, we grew the number of rooms in our system by 6 per cent on a net basis.
BRAND PERFORMANCE The $1 billion relaunch of the Holiday Inn family of brands is progressing well.
Almost 300 hotels had been relaunched by the end of 2008 and feedback from guests and owners has been encouraging.
The improvements will deliver a higher quality guest experience and stronger returns for hotel owners.
In September 2008, we entered the timeshare market through an exclusive licensing and marketing agreement, launching our Holiday Inn Club Vacations brand.
We successfully continued the expansion of our brands around the world with the launch of Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo outside our Americas region.
ADVANTAGES OF SCALE With almost 620,000 rooms worldwide, we can deploy our significant scale to benefit both ourselves and our hotel owners.
Our reservations channels now bring in $7.6 billion of room revenues and our Priority Club Rewards members contribute $5.9 billion.
We now directly generate around 60 per cent of room nights at our hotels through our system.
This year we started several projects to make more of our scale, to maximise efficiencies and drive cost savings.
These include establishing a Group procurement team and consolidating several accounting processes to overseas locations.
The savings will continue in 2009 and we have committed to keeping our costs below 2008 levels.
The trading environment became significantly tougher throughout 2008 and there is no doubt 2009 will be very challenging, but ours is a resilient business and our strategy remains the right one.
Over the last few years, we have built confidence and momentum in the business and forged an even stronger bond with our community of outstanding owners with whom we operate our hotel system.
Together we are all focused on a common goal, to create Great Hotels Guests Love and despite the poor short-term outlook, we remain confident we can deliver our ambition.
Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive Before exceptional items.
OVERVIEW Chief Executives review and Statement from the IAHI 5 Q&A with Andy Cosslett: Does IHG have the right strategy to deal with the current economic climate?
Three years ago we made the decision to focus on franchising and managing hotels, so we are predominantly a fee-based business.
The benefits of this include a more predictable income stream and high cash generation.
We own fewer properties ourselves now and our growth is funded by third-party investment.
This growth helps us be Raising the level more resilient in a tougher economic environment as the of guest satisfaction revenue we receive from new rooms helps offset that lost from declines in RevPAR.
We are confident our strategy and business model set us up well to weather the storm.
We have a great collaborative relationship with IHG.
In fact, its unique in the hotel industry.
What is IHG doing to respond to the changing Our Association works closely with IHG to help market conditions?
direct the future of the hotel brands were all committed to.
It gives our members valuable Over the past few years, we have taken a number of access to global best practice and the IHG strategic decisions to set the business up for tougher leadership team.
We have established a new procurement function to make the most of our scale, invested in technology and We were deeply saddened by the loss of Steve our reservations systems and focused our marketing Porter, President of the Americas, in August 2008. spend on short-term tactical marketing and long-term He was an energetic and passionate hotelier, brand development.
We will continue to review our cost a great champion of the IAHI and will be missed base on an ongoing basis and invest in those things that by all our members.
We look forward to working drive guests to our hotels and revenues to our owners.
with Jim Abrahamson as the new President of the region and welcome him to the team.
Is IHG any more advantaged than any other Over the past year we have worked with IHG to hotel company?
review the IAHI business plan and help our owners meet the challenges of 2009 head on.
We also As one of the biggest hotel operators, we have the continued to work together to relaunch the iconic advantage of scale.
We have a number of strong brands Holiday Inn brand.
The relaunch is going well.
across different price points, in nearly 100 countries At the end of 2008 almost 300 hotels had around the world.
Then we have the support structure relaunched globally.
More are rolling out every our reservations systems and our $1 billion marketing day and owners are starting to see the positive fund to deliver more guests to our hotels.
This is why results it has on guest satisfaction and revenue.
The collective experience of our members, together We have a great management team to lead the business.
with the exceptional support of IHG, gives us the The loss of Steve Porter has been felt widely across tools we need to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
IHG and the industry and he will be sorely missed as a colleague and as a friend.
We are delighted, however, to welcome Jim Abrahamson to the Group, who brings Thomas J. Corcoran, Jr with him a wealth of experience of hotel operations in Chairman, IAHI, The Owners Association the Americas region.
& Chairman, The Felcor Trust We also have a great working relationship with our owners, both directly and through the IAHI, The Owners Association.
During these difficult times, it is even more important to work side by side with our owners so that we can deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
For further information go to www.
org 6 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 We operate hotels in three ways: as a franchisor, a manager and an owner.
Our business model focuses on franchising and managing hotels on behalf of our owners around the world.
how it works We have 3,585 hotels operating under franchise agreements, 585 hotels we manage on behalf of owners and 16 hotels we own ourselves.
MARKETING AND BRAND STAFF OWNERSHIP IHG CAPITAL IHG REVENUE DISTRIBUTION OWNED high all revenue IHG IHG IHG IHG AND LEASED IHG usually supplies fee % of total MANAGED general manager third party low none revenue plus IHG IHG as a minimum % of profit fee % of FRANCHISED third party third party none IHG IHG rooms revenue Franchising Managing Owning We have 3,585 hotels operating We have 585 hotels operating Today we own just 16 hotels under franchise agreements, under management contracts, of the 4,186 operating under which represents nearly 86 per representing almost 14 per cent one of our brands less than cent of the estate.
Under a managed 1 per cent of the estate.
These enables owners to trade under contract we run the hotels on hotels have a net book value of one of our brands, leverage a day-to-day basis with direct approximately $1.7 billion, the our scale and take advantage control over quality and service majority of which is represented of our reservations systems standards, but ownership of by our InterContinental hotels in such as our call centres, sales the buildings remains with London, Hong Kong, New York teams, websites and Priority a third-party owner.
Since 2003 weve sold Club Rewards.
Owners also 183 hotels and have retained have our support in, and access our brands on 90 per cent of to, property improvement these, giving us a continuing plans, quality training and income stream.
HOW WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Our brands 7 InterContinental Hotels In the Know.
InterContinental Hotels & Resorts believes & Resorts in understated service and outstanding facilities.
What makes InterContinental stand out from the crowd is the 159 HOTELS, 54,736 ROOMS desire to help every guest discover whats special about 71 HOTELS, 21,884 ROOMS a destination so they enjoy a truly authentic experience.
IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE Crowne Plaza The Place To Meet.
Crowne Plaza prides itself on offering simple elegance and a full range of facilities.
With a strong 342 HOTELS, 93,382 ROOMS reputation for business services, excellent meeting facilities 133 HOTELS, 41,469 ROOMS and state-of-the-art technology, Crowne Plaza knows what IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE it takes to make it happen for our guests.
Hotel Indigo Escape the Mundane.
Friendly, unpretentious hotels for people who want to stay somewhere a little bit different.
22 HOTELS, 2,702 ROOMS Hotel Indigo is a boutique hotel that comes with all the 56 HOTELS, 7,212 ROOMS benefits of a big hotel company.
It offers good value, IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE creature comforts and a fresh, bright design.
Its a great option for both business and leisure travellers.
Holiday Inn Relax, its Holiday Inn.
One of the worlds most iconic hotel brands with a reputation for dependable, friendly service, 1,353 HOTELS, 249,691 ROOMS comfort and value.
On average, three people check into 387 HOTELS, 64,261 ROOMS a Holiday Inn every second somewhere around the world.
IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE The Holiday Inn relaunch is well under way and guests are telling us they love the changes weve made.
Holiday Inn Express Stay Smart.
Holiday Inn Express is focused on convenience and comfort at great value.
Its the ideal choice for people 1,932 HOTELS, 173,794 ROOMS on the road who are looking for a fresh, clean and 719 HOTELS, 70,270 ROOMS uncomplicated hotel.
Holiday Inn Express is also IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE relaunching as part of the wider Holiday Inn programme.
A home away from home, Staybridge Suites is ideal for business and leisure travellers who 152 HOTELS, 16,644 ROOMS stay for an extended period of time and are looking 166 HOTELS, 18,109 ROOMS for a residential style hotel.
A central feature of every IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE Staybridge Suites is the Great Room, a communal area where guests can meet and relax.
For people who tend to stay for a week or more, Candlewood Suites offers spacious studios and 204 HOTELS, 20,641 ROOMS one-bedroom suites each with a fully equipped kitchen 242 HOTELS, 21,790 ROOMS and large work area.
The focus at Candlewood Suites IN DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE is on comfort, space and value.
Priority Club Rewards Its easier.
The worlds first and largest hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards offers members an 42 MILLION unrivalled range of benefits.
Our award-winning programme MEMBERS WORLDWIDE is renowned across the industry for its innovation and is an important way of growing loyalty to our brands.
great hotel brands 7 and our multi-award-winning loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards 8 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Guest experience Our marketing has two main aims.
One is to get our guests to love our hotels.
The other is to drive revenue to hotels for our owners.
And both go hand in hand, says Tom Seddon.
passion&performance We want our guests to love our hotels and to come back time and time Customers can make again.
We have to ensure guests choose one of our bookings through: seven brands in the first place, that they can make their booking quickly and easily and they have a great experience every time they stay.
The Internet 13 local language Creating a great guest experience is something you have to work at websites and www.
The best example of this is Holiday Inn, which is undergoing the most popular hotel website the biggest relaunch the hospitality industry has ever seen.
At the end of Our reservations centres 2008 we had almost 300 relaunched hotels where people can really see 12 call centres around the and feel the difference for themselves.
More hotels are relaunching every world that take reservations day and guests are telling us they love the change.
Even in this more in 15 languages difficult economic climate weve been signing a raft of new hotels to the brand.
We signed 419 Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express hotels in the Travel agents and online travel past 12 months and owners have told us that the brand relaunch was a companies.
Guests can book big reason why they chose us, which is evidence that were doing it right.
to stay in one of our hotels An owner signs up to develop a hotel under one of our brands because through hundreds of travel theyre convinced well deliver them more guests than any other hotel websites around the globe company.
Its our powerful system that helps us do that.
How to spend a billion Our sales teams, reservations channels and loyalty programme are the three main elements of whats often referred to as the IHG system.
Its this system that drives our guest bookings.
The system fund, made up of contributions from all our owners, totals almost $1 billion, which we spend on behalf of our owners every year.
It goes on our call centres, websites, sales teams, advertising and brand development.
We now directly generate almost 60 per cent of room nights at our hotels through our system.
Priority Club Rewards PCR is an amazingly powerful tool and had Theres no doubt that the a big year in 2008.
It celebrated its 25th anniversary, welcomed trading environment has its 40 millionth member and retained its position as the worlds changed significantly largest hotel loyalty programme.
It gives us a great database over the year.
Now of customers who are more loyal than the average guest and more than ever our spend more money with us when they stay.
hotel owners want We also have more than 300 sales people dedicated to our scale, strength developing relationships with corporate customers and expertise to help big companies around the world, airlines that place their them stay competitive crews, travel agents, and people who organise large and get their fair business events.
Plus we have 8,000 hotel-based sales share of the demand people to drive local business.
Our guests A large part of our marketing budget is spent in the online want even better world, because guests have drastically changed how they value for money.
go about finding themselves a hotel room.
Over 70 per cent of bookings now having an online element, such as searching And we have to deliver.
We have dedicated teams focusing on how we Tom Seddon make the most of our web presence.
Were the largest Chief Marketing Officer advertiser with Google in the industry, the IHG website is the most visited hotel website and its the only hotel site among the top 30 travel-related websites in the world.
com Guest experience 9 Height of achievement The concierge has the key In Greater China we now have more Chief concierges at InterContinental than one million members of Priority hotels around the world have become Club Rewards.
To mark the milestone the stars of 140 destination videos, in we built a 10-metre-high mock hotel which they take viewers on a tour of their made out of photographs and put it local area and share tips on what to see on show on one of the main streets of and do.
The videos are now on YouTube Shanghai.
On the weekend of 15-16 and our website and have featured on November, the unique model was in-flight televisions across the globe.
added to the skyscrapers along Huaihai The idea for the videos came out of Road.
The hotel was modelled on the our Concierge Programme, which InterContinental Nanjing, which is due launched in 2006 to highlight that to open in 2009. the concierge is not only the face of InterContinental, they are also at the heart of the guest experience.
Hows this for climbing After a lifetime of loyalty our into bed?
scheme gets its own reward Its not so much the height of comfort You might think that in order to be as comfort at a great height.
A woman in given a lifetime achievement award pyjamas abseiled down the Sony building you must at least be human.
But at a in downtown Tokyo to rest on a Crowne prestigious travel industry gathering Plaza bed perched half way up watched that honour was instead bestowed on by crowds of onlookers from the street.
The Annual Freddie Awards, held in Arizona, USA, The event last summer was amazingly presented the Lifetime Achievement successful, garnering press coverage Award to mark our loyalty programmes all around the world.
The aim was to 25th anniversary.
The awards are publicise the way the ANA Crowne Plaza organised by InsideFlyer, an American brand, a joint venture between IHG and magazine for frequent flyers.
Japanese airline ANA, helps guests get a good nights sleep.
According to a Priority Club Rewards was not only the survey commissioned by ANA Crowne hotel industrys first loyalty programme: Plaza, sleep deprivation is becoming a it is also the largest and fastest-growing.
national problem in Japan, with four out Some 42 million members worldwide of five business people suffering from can now exchange points for a range sleep problems.
Relaunched Holiday Inn hotels are strikingly different As guests arrive at a new-style Holiday Inn they cant help noticing the more modern signage, and since most of them arrive in the evening they will be struck by the way the outside of the building is awash with coloured light.
There are plants and benches by the entrance to make the hotel feel more welcoming, a front desk that is less cluttered and more professional, a special scent thats dispersed through the lobby, and music playing in the background.
When guests get to their bedroom they find upgraded bedding, clean, crisp white sheets, their choice of pillows, and better bathrooms with new showerheads and great-smelling soaps and lotions.
We focused on upgrading the fundamental things that matter most to guests and guests are noticing.
10 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Driving demand From Merlin to Magic, our technological wizards have been working on a host of innovative ways for hotels to boost their performance and increase bookings.
Tom Conophy reveals how this even includes enabling concierges to twitter at guests.
logon, checkin... Take over 4,000 hotels across the world, give them up-to-the-minute www.
com information on their business performance, and what do you have?
Answer: Merlin, our intranet system the internal website for all IHG colleagues.
Our biggest success over the past year has been to connect www.
com all of our hotels around the world to it.
com For the first time we have a single communications www.
com platform across all our hotels.
com 20 technicians, as well as about 200 other people across the globe, worked on the project.
We had to overcome the challenge of linking to some of our www.
com more remote locations and ensure that the right level of information is www.
com available to our employees.
By enabling business intelligence to be provided in almost real time, www.
com Merlin allows our owners and general managers to make decisions faster.
com This is important for revenue management, and shows how technology can really give businesses an edge more important than ever in an economic downturn.
In todays tougher times, it is also valuable to provide hotels with new ways of reaching out to guests, and we have achieved that by adding our hotels to Expedia, the Internet-based travel agency.
We have increased the number of customers which the reservations centres can manage and boosted the conversion rate from call to booking by moving the centres to a new Internet-based system.
It gives more information on our call centre colleagues computer screens, so they have fewer screens to navigate and can answer Technology is an questions more rapidly.
integral part of Other developments this year include the revitalisation our daily lives.
of our websites, mapping all our hotels on Google Earth Its changed our see story, right and the introduction of Hotel 360, behaviours and a system to help us manage all our hotel and owner our expectations.
Our guests have Connecting with guests told us its a big As social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter factor in where increase in popularity, guests expect us to be able they choose to to communicate with them using these websites.
So we need InterContinental concierges can now post information to meet their to guests using Twitter and weve launched an online expectations to community for some of our Priority Club Rewards deliver a great members to share their thoughts on IHG hotels and test guest experience.
Well continue to test innovative ways of using the online world to enhance our guest Tom Conophy services.
One of our big plans for next year is Magic Chief Information a next generation loyalty system which enables us to Officer market to all our previous guests in their own language.
Now showing More than 150 videos about IHG and our hotels, some of them made by guests, can now be viewed on our new YouTube page.
Click and easy Guests now have a new way to plan a trip and book a hotel room anywhere in the world in just a few clicks, thanks to our new Google Earth application.
This groundbreaking tool enables guests to home in on their destination, find the nearest 1 IHG hotel and book their room directly from the site.
IHG was the first hotel company to plot all its hotels on Google Earth.
Check-ins checked out Hotel owners can now install an extra, economical way of handling check-in and check-out.
Weve created a low-cost kiosk system that allows guests to avoid any delay at reception, view their room, upgrade, look over their bill and check themselves in and out.
A number of hotels in the US have installed the kiosks and hotels in Asia and Europe are testing them too.
Customers have told us they really like being able to manage their own arrival and departure.
Joined-up thinking What do an iPod, mobile phone, gaming system and laptop have in common?
They can all be plugged into a guest connection device that IHG has developed, allowing guests to easily hook up their electronic gadgets to the in-room TV, loudspeakers or Internet.
Connectivity is crucial for our guests and the devices will be available to all our hotels in 2009.
3 4 12 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Our people How do you go about recruiting enough people to staff more than 1,700 new hotels?
As Tracy Robbins explains, clearly setting out the Groups commitment to employees is vital to win the war for talent.
Winning Ways People are at the heart of our core purpose, Great Hotels Guests Love.
We treat our people as individuals, want them to feel valued for their contribution and ask everyone to live our Winning Ways the behaviours everyone at IHG can buy into every day.
Do the right thing A lot of organisations talk about the war for talent, but for us its very real.
We plan to open more than 1,700 hotels in the next few years and almost 140,000 people will need to be found to work in them.
We cant rely on traditional methods to recruit this number of people, so were getting creative.
We use our own people to tell the story of who we are: our Show we care recruitment advertisements are fronted by our employees showcasing their hobbies see picture, right.
We wanted them to share something that inspires them, excites them and shows them as individuals because thats how we want them to feel when they are working with us.
Our careers website was relaunched in December with new information and insight Aim higher into what its really like to work for us.
Just over one million people visited the site in 2008 and we now have more than 380,000 CVs that have been submitted online.
Careers beckon for 4,200 every year We are also developing the talent we need ourselves.
Around 4,200 people Celebrate difference a year will graduate from our Academies in China after we stepped up the IHG Academy programme.
These Academies operate in 10 locations, from Shanghai to Shenzhen, and are supported by 24 partners, offering hospitality courses that weve helped to develop.
Students are then given jobs with IHG when they successfully complete their courses, ranging from positions Work better together in maintenance to revenue management and front office.
The next generation of general managers General managers need to be financially savvy, understand brands, deliver a great guest experience and get the best out of people.
We have launched a selection tool to help our owners find those managers with the skills to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
We also conducted a talent review of over 1,100 senior managers to help us develop effective succession plans.
Our new Learning Management System gives general managers and front line employees a suite of online learning tools to prepare them for their next role.
Employees love working here We want people Weve been measuring employee engagement in our owned who share our and managed estate for two years.
We received a record values and are 90,000 responses representing about 90 per cent of engaged with employees to the latest survey in November.
We want them During 2008, employee engagement to be proud of improved by 3 per cent to 68 per cent.
working for us Nine out of 10 people told us theyre and to tell their proud to work for IHG.
87 per cent of employees would recommend IHG as Tracy Robbins a good place to work 27 per cent higher than external Executive Vice President, benchmark data and we see the results of that every day.
Global Human Resources In our Americas region almost half of our vacancies are filled by employee referrals.
Photo by Salma Hussaini, taken at Holiday Inn, Dubai Jason The team enjoy their InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Stay Real training.
IHG Academy students, Shenzhen, Peoples Republic of China 1 3.
Jason Huang, Chef, InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Jason loves kite flying.
He might not bring his kite to work but hes hugely enthusiastic about his job and just as keen to impress the guests as his fellow kite flyers.
2 3... room to be yourself Real effort goes into relaunch Efforts bring their Around 200,000 people are due to go own awards through a massive training programme Weve won some as part of the relaunch of Holiday Inn.
great awards this year, The Stay Real initiative sets out new standards of service to ensure our including: guests receive a warm welcome and The Personnel Today the best possible stay.
Award for Employee Every Holiday Inn will now have a guest Branding experience champion, whose job it is to make sure the new standards are The Management Today kept up.
The training has been designed Hanging out with the boss Award for Britains to be highly interactive and dynamic, Most Admired Company Sit back in a cosy armchair, make to increase the energy level around the yourself comfortable and have a chat in the Leisure and relaunch and to continue to build on the with the leadership team.
Thats the Hotels sector highly motivated teams we have around atmosphere were creating with The the world.
One of the best places Leaders Lounge.
In this new online to work in Atlanta, USA, At the end of the year 74 per cent of forum our most senior managers by Atlanta Magazine Holiday Inn hotels had received the can find advice, assistance and tools training in preparation for their relaunch to improve their leadership and that One of Chinas Top and were receiving excellent feedback of their teams.
Strategy and issues Employers by the from people who have attended.
such as effective cost management Corporate Research are discussed, with tips and best Foundation practice being shared by all.
Its a great resource to help us on our journey to becoming one of the best companies in the world.
14 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Responsible business At IHG, Corporate Responsibility CR isnt an add-on, its integral to the way we do business.
Were working to meet guests and owners expectations with our Corporate Responsibility initiatives by focusing on two key areas of work the environment and our role in local communities.
These are areas in which we can make a big difference.
During 2008 we: We treat Corporate Responsibility with the same business acumen we do everything else.
Acting in a responsible manner and doing good goes beyond our legal obligations.
It helps us to create value for the business Researched how Corporate and build competitive advantage.
It also helps us to define our business Responsibility affects guest strategy and is key to attracting people to work for us.
attitudes and behaviour Not only do we need to consider how travel and tourism affects the Completed a comprehensive environment and the communities in which we operate but we also have carbon and environmental to manage all this within the context of the global economic downturn.
footprint analysis In 2008 we put the fundamental elements of our Expanded the Innovation Hotel CR strategy into place and achieved some great things.
concept see story, right See column, left Integrated CR into brand planning, including the design of a Holiday Inn prototype that requires less construction material... long-term Were selected for the US Department of Energy initiative to explore building We measured our environmental impacts, surveyed general managers about what they do to help their communities, innovated new and better a hotel thats up to 50 per cent ways to design, build and operate our hotels and carried out consumer more energy efficient within research to understand what really makes a difference to our guests.
the next few years We asked our hotel owners about the issues of responsible tourism see story, page 21 and respecting local communities.
We also worked with them and Developed Green Engage, partner organisations such as Harvard University, Cornell University our online sustainability and National Geographic to develop a rounded view of how we should management system approach CR in a meaningful way.
see story, right Were implementing policies to cover the environment, communities and human rights.
To reinforce these we have set up a steering group Made our corporate offices of senior executives and communicated this work by releasing a more more energy efficient with detailed online CR Report.
measures such as window Our focus now is to engage more with everyone in our business on our tinting, sustainable furniture approach to CR and concentrate on what we can all do to play a part.
and carpets and energy A responsible approach to business will not only help us to reduce our saving light bulbs impact on the environment and become a better community partner Won the Institute of Chartered but also reduce our costs.
Secretaries and Administrators To find out more about our work in this area read our award for Most Innovative online CR Report at www.
com responsibility Approach to CSR HOW WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com A responsible business 15 Online Innovation Hotel Sitting pretty, with grass on its roof Its the worlds first entirely green hotel.
The online Innovation Hotel is our way of showcasing the latest technology in energy and water conservation and recycling.
sustainability The virtual hotel, which can be seen on our website, invites Switching on huge savings people to provide feedback on Our new sustainability management system, the green technologies they Green Engage, could save up to 25 per cent of feel are important.
This helps hotel energy costs according to our early trials.
us prioritise turning the most This will save millions of dollars for IHG and hotel popular and practical ideas owners across the estate and help us deliver into standard features within what guests told us they want hotels with the next few years.
great environmental credentials which give Among the highlights them a sense of wellbeing.
of the futuristic hotel are: Green Engage is an online system that helps Solar panels to heat water general managers effectively manage their energy A rainwater collection system consumption, water usage and waste production.
to supply water to toilets It compares each hotels figures in these areas A roof garden rich in shrubbery with similar IHG properties and suggests actions to provide extra insulation to make improvements, including insulating hot 1 water pipes, introducing a recycling programme, Wind power to generate switching to organic cleaning materials and electricity appointing an employee as a green champion.
Tom Corcoran, Chairman of the IAHI, The Owners Furniture and fittings made Photo by Camye Mackey, Association, said: In the current economic entirely from recycled materials taken at Holiday Inn climate and with rising energy bills, this system Gaithersburg, Maryland, USA The use of waste to provide will help us to identify significant cost savings.
Holiday Inn is proud of being heat and power green in more ways than one.
Green Engage also allows hotels to measure The concept hotel can their performance against leading external be viewed at environmental certifications.
com innovation to all our hotels from mid-2009 and is key to delivering on our objectives.
16 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Corporate reputation We see our good practices in risk management, health and safety, confidentiality, corporate governance, internal assurance and corporate culture as key elements of offering an excellent guest experience.
sound and safe Delivering Great Hotels Guests Love requires a sound corporate reputation.
It helps us to build our corporate brand and is fundamental to our operations worldwide.
Corporate governance Sound governance is shaped by processes and policies which the Board of Directors, supported by the IHG Executive Committee, ensures are in place.
The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Disclosure Committees within IHG provide further support to maintain good governance practices, as do the Legal, Company Secretariat, Internal Audit and Risk Management teams.
But this is only part of the story.
All our employees must follow the same good practices in order to keep our corporate reputation at the highest level.
Thats why weve embedded a large number of policies in our dayto-day operations, including our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Competition policies, together with guidelines on the environment, support for communities and human rights.
All of these protocols are reviewed and refreshed regularly.
Our Code of Ethics makes it clear that IHGs reputation is built upon the trust and confidence of all our stakeholders and is part of making IHG one of the best companies in the world.
Integrity of information Data privacy is a global issue and an ever-evolving area of regulation.
Our privacy programme is designed to maintain the confidentiality of customer information and adhere to We wouldnt be able legal and regulatory compliance across all jurisdictions.
to deliver Great Hotels We were an early adopter of the TRUSTe privacy seal for online reservations, an independent privacy Guests Love if we didnt monitoring service thats recognised internationally.
We protect As a public company, we also need to keep information secure to ensure the accuracy of our company, our financial reporting to investors and the market.
investors, our guests We maintain an information security programme and our employees that assures confidentiality, integrity and by maintaining the availability of information including financial highest standards of data, intellectual property, other essential corporate governance, business information and personal data.
health and safety, Our policy on the identification, control and confidentiality and dissemination of information that could affect risk management.
the groups share price is posted on Merlin, our internal website.
We issue regular reminders about George Turner it to all staff who may be privy to such information.
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary HOW WE OPERATE Corporate reputation 17 1.
Photo by Dennis Jones, taken at our corporate offices, Atlanta, USA Regi and Darrell dont consider their day complete until theyve put a smile on your face!
Photo by Errol Martin, taken at our Reservations Centre, Philippines The team pride themselves on having a positive attitude and 1 2 living our Winning Ways.
Risk management Hotel safety Internal assurance The safety and security of our guests, In support of managed hotels, weve Internal Audit is an important element in employees and others is paramount developed and implemented a common making sure we adhere to the procedures and its a responsibility we take very systematic approach to managing safety that enable us to maintain our corporate seriously.
In todays world our Risk risks.
This system is increasingly being reputation and manage significant risks Management team is vital to ensuring shared with franchised hotels around to our strategic objectives.
that we can provide safe and secure the world.
To deliver this capability we: Internal Audits annual plan of activity hotels.
The Risk Management team Form risk groups to develop is predominantly based on key strategic, is responsible for a number of global good practices and draft operational, financial and information programmes, including threat policy standards and guidelines technology risks and includes hotel-level assessment, crisis management, assurance.
Its the job of our internal Develop and maintain common and business continuity planning.
auditors to monitor and test the quality platforms across the function They also train hotel employees and of our processes and disciplines, a Focus on our people to drive our corporate functions in all of these particularly important task at a time engagement and increase skill matters.
As a result, all of our hotels of economic uncertainty.
and competency and offices are enlisted into the effort The findings of our internal audits enable and our owners can be reassured that Partner with world-class third us to improve controls and procedures they have expertise on hand to tackle parties to develop processes continuously.
Actions are agreed in these critical areas.
response to recommendations and these are followed up to ensure satisfactory control is maintained.
Our Internal Audit Corporate risk team regularly reports to the Audit We maintain a Global Risk Register in Committee to ensure independence order to identify significant risks to our and reflect best practice.
business, and we assign accountability for them.
This enables us to quantify how dangerous these risks are, to identify Through all these efforts and more, existing controls, and to understand our we have created a corporate reputation ability to improve these controls, along that we firmly intend to continue to with the benefits and costs of doing so.
develop and strengthen, supporting the success of the business worldwide.
Having an accurate and up-to-date Global Risk Register is a vital part of maintaining good governance practice and our corporate reputation.
The Risk Management function reports twice a year to the Executive Committee and the Board on both hotel safety and corporate risk.
18 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Global overview one big world 1 The Americas The Americas represents 65% of our continuing operating profit Number of employees 1.
Photo by Mark Clark, taken 190,000 at Holiday Inn Express Hotel & Suites, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA Our receptionist Angie Number of hotels by business model welcomes a guest coming Franchised 3,051 hotels 382,070 rooms in from minus 38 degrees.
Managed 199 hotels 40,915 rooms Thats a warm welcome!
Owned and leased 10 hotels 3,505 rooms 2.
Photo by Salima Hussaini, taken Number of hotels by brand at Holiday Inn Dubai-Al Barsha OPEN IN PIPELINE Our Thai chef performs the rites HOTELS ROOMS HOTELS ROOMS at a Thai wedding held in our INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS Royal Buddha restaurant.
HOTEL INDIGO 21 2,638 55 7,032 Photo by Salena Hu, taken HOLIDAY INN 920 168,777 263 32,852 at Crowne Plaza City Centre, Ningbo, Peoples Republic HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS 1,722 146,024 639 56,465 of China STAYBRIDGE SUITES 150 16,372 154 16,678 The photography competition CANDLEWOOD SUITES 204 20,641 242 21,790 has given our more serious OTHER 1 2,412 amateur photographers a TOTAL 3,260 426,490 1,403 146,757 chance to show off their talents!
WHERE WE OPERATE more on the web: www.
com Global overview 19 IHGs hotel development pipeline equates to over 40% of our existing system size.
It alone would make the ninth largest hotel company in the world and represents $15 billion of other peoples money invested in developing our brands.
In 2008, we signed almost two hotels into our pipeline every day.
2 3 Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific EMEA represents Asia Pacific represents 25% of our continuing operating profit 10% of our continuing operating profit Number of employees Number of employees 75,000 65,000 Number of hotels by business model Number of hotels by business model Franchised 492 hotels 74,076 rooms Franchised 42 hotels 9,821 rooms Managed 179 hotels 41,185 rooms Managed 207 hotels 66,140 rooms Owned and leased 4 hotels 1,446 rooms Owned and leased 2 hotels 693 rooms Number of hotels by brand Number of hotels by brand OPEN IN PIPELINE OPEN IN PIPELINE HOTELS ROOMS HOTELS ROOMS HOTELS ROOMS HOTELS ROOMS INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS & RESORTS 64 20,836 28 7,062 & RESORTS 40 15,398 36 12,529 CROWNE PLAZA 89 20,729 25 7,287 CROWNE PLAZA 66 21,529 65 24,535 HOTEL INDIGO 164 HOTEL INDIGO 1 180 HOLIDAY INN 332 53,039 50 10,204 HOLIDAY INN 101 27,875 74 21,205 HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS 186 21,564 57 7,790 HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS 24 6,206 23 6,015 STAYBRIDGE SUITES 2 272 12 1,431 OTHER 20 5,646 OTHER 1 203 1 90 TOTAL 251 76,654 199 64,464 TOTAL 675 116,707 173 33,864 Continuing operating profit before central overheads and exceptional items.
Estimated number of employees working across our owned, managed and franchised hotels.
20 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 The Americas After joining us in January 2009 as our new president for the Americas, Jim Abrahamson reveals just how energetic the team has been in its pursuit of growth.
Im delighted to join such a dynamic and exciting company.
The team has a fantastic business here and Id like to thank Richard Solomons and the management team for their work in ensuring a smooth transition.
Our scale and system have put us in a strong position to face the tougher trading environment that lies ahead and to build on the great work of Steve Porter.
Performance highlights: Market performance Revenue per available room United States: As our number one market, the US has the largest number RevPAR of hotels open and the biggest development pipeline.
The economic environment may be tough, but we set a new record in 2008 by opening down 0.2% 332 hotels, including our 200th Candlewood Suites.
Continuing revenue During the year we entered the timeshare market up 2.0% for the first time by launching a new brand, to $920m Holiday Inn Club Vacations see story, page 23.
Continuing operating profit Latin America: Business has been resilient, buoyed by strong local trade and travel.
The area bucked the global downturn and saw an increase up 2.5% in revenue per available room of about 15 per cent.
We have 106 hotels in Mexico, more than any other company and were the only hotel group to $451m approved for the Mexican governments scheme to give franchisees three year interest-free loans to pay initial fees.
This should certainly help growth continue.
Canada: We now have 144 hotels in Canada.
Holiday Inn continues to grow rapidly and our pipeline is the largest of all mid-scale hotel brands in the country, an achievement were very proud of.
Opened and on the way Chicago, Arizona and two in California were among the rapid roll-out of new InterContinental hotels.
We also signed deals for InterContinental hotels in Times Square, New York and Atlanta, Georgia.
Crowne Plaza, one of the hotel industrys fastest-growing brands, saw a wealth of openings and signings.
This includes the spectacular Were extremely and historic Brock Plaza opposite Niagara Falls and the focused on our 31-storey, 386 room hotel that will open in Las Vegas in 2010. relationships with The Holiday Inn relaunch has given owners renewed owners because its confidence that the brand is a first-choice franchise.
by working closely with them that we There are now more than 902 Holiday Inn can achieve our hotels in the Americas pipeline a record ambition of Great and the lions share of the brands Hotels Guests Love.
Understanding the needs of our Staybridge Suites celebrated its 10th anniversary see story, right by opening its first hotel in Las Vegas.
owners and guests In 2008, we opened 10 Hotel Indigo properties in the US better has been three in Florida alone.
There are now more than 52 Hotel a focus this year Indigo properties in development in the US.
Jim Abrahamson President, The Americas Before exceptional items.
One of the pieces of art on show at InterContinental Chicago OHare, USA 2.
Photo by Jill Cleveland, taken at Holiday Inn Express, Roswell, New Mexico, USA Guests at our hotel in Roswell think the breakfasts are out of this world!
Photo by Joseph Zaffuta, taken at Hotel Indigo Houston at the Galleria, Texas, USA The Hotel Indigo team are ready to go!
1 2 3 Staybridge Suites celebrates success Green buildings find Charity begins at home Art at its heart on its 10th birthday the right chemistry Candlewood Suites has joined Guests staying at the new The 10th anniversary The US Department of Energy up with the charity Habitat InterContinental Chicago of Staybridge Suites was has selected IHG to help find for Humanity International OHare have an unusual a cause for celebration solutions to the growing to build homes for lowreason to linger to enjoy in December.
income families in the US, the hotels own art gallery, The first Staybridge Suites IHG is one of 24 companies Latin America and India.
looked after by an opened in Atlanta, Georgia working with American in-house curator.
Pledging to build 10 houses in 1998 to fulfil the needs laboratories on a $15 million to celebrate its 10th The hotel runs a daily of business travellers who project to design commercial anniversary, employees took champagne tour of its spend weeks or months buildings that save significant on the task of building their paintings and sculptures, at a time on the road.
So far, which include commissioned years on, it played host to houses have been built in works by artists Thomas a celebration of the brands The aim is to design, Dallas and Detroit, USA Masters and Jay Ryan and birthday.
construct and operate a new and Mexico.
Three more are rotating art collections.
building that uses 50 per cent Staybridge Suites now has already under way in India The 556-room hotel, which 152 hotels open and a global less energy than a standard and the teams seventh house opened in September, also pipeline of 166.
The majority structure within five years.
is planned for Atlanta, USA.
boasts a 275-seat liveof these are in the US, but This knowledge will help us entertainment venue and weve also had great success reduce the environmental three world-class restaurants.
in taking the brand to other impact of developing and regions see story, page 26. operating our own hotels.
22 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 The Americas continued Relationship with owners We continue to work closely with the IAHI, our Owners Association, to provide franchisees with the help they need to improve service quality and drive revenue to their hotels.
This is especially important in a tougher market, when working in partnership with our owners gives us a competitive advantage.
The IAHI is a key partner in the relaunch of Holiday Inn, and has helped to ensure that the staff-training element of the process is ahead of schedule.
In Latin America, the strength of our relationship with The Owners Association is illustrated by the way the regional IAHI president has worked with us to open the regions first hotel school see story, below.
Lavish Broadway revival goes with a swing Manhattans biggest indoor pool, a Butler Floor and even private putting greens are all part of an $85 million reinvention of the Crowne Plaza in Times Square, New York.
The 770-room hotel the only one with an entrance on Broadway raised the curtain on its new look in December.
It boasts 18 rooms with their own putting greens, 1 New Yorks first Butler Floor and a 50 ft swimming pool.
Franchisee opens Latin Americas Set to double first hotel school Rocky Mount, North Carolina became Latin America has its first hotel school home to our 200th Candlewood Suites thanks to the enthusiasm of one of our hotel which opened in October.
brands global pipeline is set to add at Herman Bern, president of our Owners least another 200 in the next three to Association in the region, has opened four years.
the Panama International Hotel School Guests at the hotel can take advantage within his latest IHG hotel, the Holiday of the just-like-home amenities Inn City of Knowledge in Panama City.
available at all Candlewood Suites Students help to run the 137-room hotel, hotels, including complimentary highwhich opened in April.
Weve provided speed Internet access, free local phone a sophisticated culinary theatre at the calls, free on-site guest laundry and hotel and continue to support it by a 24-hour fitness centre.
funding scholarships and giving our They can also enjoy the free lending employees in the region the opportunity library of movies and music, which can to attend the school as part of our be played on the DVD and CD players career development programme.
provided in every guest room.
Opening the school has given us a competitive advantage because were the only hotel company with this sort of facility in the region.
com The Americas 23 2 Welcome to the worlds biggest timeshare resort We made our debut in the fast-growing world of timeshare with the launch of a new brand at the biggest single-site timeshare resort in the world.
Holiday Inn Club Vacations opened for business in December with a resort boasting 2,412 villas on 1,400 acres next 4 to Walt Disney World Resort in Florida.
The resort features four championship golf courses, seven swimming pools, 1. an 80-acre lake for watersports and Crowne Plaza Times Square, a variety of shops and restaurants.
New York, USA A flagship Holiday Inn Resort hotel and up to 2,500 additional timeshare 2. villas are also due to be built there.
Holiday Inn Club Vacations, 3 Orange Lake Resort, The opening is the result of an alliance Orlando, Florida, USA between IHG and The Family of Orange Lake Resorts, owned by the Ways to win in Wisconsin Wilson family, founders of Holiday Inn.
Photo by Kenon Beasley, Almost 56 years after Kemmons Owners looking to develop a new-build taken at Holiday Inn Express Wilson opened the first Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza should head for the state Pensacola Beach, Florida, USA in Memphis, Tennessee, his family of Wisconsin, where they will find the Chief Engineer Don gets down is once again helping to create a first prototype of the new Crowne Plaza to the paperwork.
The hotel demonstrates how Crowne Plaza can be operationally Orange Lakes other sites in Vermont 4. efficient and cost-effective for owners, 60 villas, Wisconsin 68 villas and Photo by Nehemiah Guillen, how to make best use of its The Place Florida 18 villas have also joined the taken at Holiday Inn Hotel To Meet positioning, and how to Holiday Inn Club Vacations brand, & Suites Santa Maria, incorporate design features that are with more sites to follow in 2009.
California, USA important to upscale business travellers.
Every morning we start While converting existing buildings will our day with a team meeting always play a role in our development to motivate and inspire us to strategy, this prototype provides design deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
ideas that owners can replicate when building new hotels.
24 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Europe, Middle East and Africa With Hotel Indigo and Staybridge Suites making their debuts in the region and InterContinental signed up in two new countries, its been a year of firsts.
At the same time, explains Kirk Kinsell, its also been a year of big numbers as the regions strong development pipeline kept openings going at a fast pace.
Performance highlights Market performance Middle East: The Middle East is a fast-growing market where our brands Revenue per available room enjoy a high level of awareness and we have landmark hotels.
Our RevPAR development strategy has been led by InterContinental and Holiday Inn, with continued growth in Crowne Plaza.
We led the field in signings, with up 3.6% 20 in total this year and we opened the regions first Staybridge Suites Continuing revenue in Cairo, Egypt.
UK: The UK put in a solid performance across all our brands.
We had up 5.3% a particularly great year for Crowne Plaza.
We carried out a marketing to $518m campaign in Heathrows new Terminal 5, opened a Crowne Plaza in Manchester with a cutting-edge design and converted a Marriott Hotel Continuing operating profit at Liverpool Airport.
We also opened a Staybridge Suites and a Hotel Indigo in the UK during the year see stories, pages 26 and 27. up 27.6% Germany: Market research continues to show great opportunities in to $171m Germany for branded hotels, particularly for value-conscious customers, so were stepping up our investment there.
We opened five Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express hotels during the year and intend to grow these brands in the future while looking for opportunities to introduce Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo.
Russia: We now have seven hotels open in Russia.
Over the year weve signed five deals and opened another Holiday Inn.
One key benefit of our market-leading position is that when Russians travel outside the country they often seek the reassurance of the brands they trust from home.
The same is true of Middle Eastern travellers and we believe well also see that trend in the German outbound market.
Opened and on the way In 2008 we welcomed the first Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo to the UK see stories, pages 26 and 27.
In the Middle East we now have two hotels in the Were a very diverse Dubai Festival City complex.
The InterContinental and region, operating Crowne Plaza were built and opened within three years in many different and are both performing well.
The InterContinental cultures, languages Residence Suites, which has also been built on the same site, will open in 2009. and backgrounds.
But our owners and Then, of course, theres the Holiday Inn relaunch, which is progressing at pace.
At the end of 2008 we employees all have had 42 hotels in the region show casing the relaunched a common goal to brand and many more are under way.
The early results engage with IHG are very positive.
and create Great Hotels Guests Love.
Kirk Kinsell President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Before exceptional items.
com Europe, Middle East and Africa 25 1.
Photo by Iaki Armada, taken at Holiday Inn Express Getafe, Madrid, Spain 1 Everyone enjoys staying at Holiday Inn Express!
Flagship on fine form in the Middle East Award-winning chef, Theo Randall, at the The InterContinental London Syria and Morocco are InterContinental Park Lane is beating the due to gain their first London Park Lane, UK competition in its first full InterContinental hotels.
The year of trading since the 392-room InterContinental 3. completion of a 70 million Damascus in the centre Crowne Plaza and refurbishment.
The facelift of the Syrian capital will InterContinental, was timely, as a number form part of the citys only Festival City Complex, Dubai of other five-star hotels integrated development, in London are now closed which will include a shopping and undergoing the same mall, cinema complex and process.
The hotel is due for completion in 2010.
The Theo Randall, chef at the first IHG property in Morocco hotels signature restaurant, will be the InterContinental has also received critical Marrakech Resort & Spa, acclaim from the press and scheduled to open in 2011. the countrys top restaurant With 297 rooms and suites critics.
He won the Italian and a large spa, guests Restaurant of the Year at the have a great chance to London Restaurant Awards, unwind after a day in this beating the extensive culinary bustling city.
26 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Europe, Middle East and Africa continued Relationship with owners We work directly with all our owners, whether they have one hotel or many, and enjoy strong working relationships.
Working closely with the IAHI, our Owners Association, continues to be a focus for us, particularly around the relaunch of Holiday Inn.
Weve also been working closely with them to deal with the tough trading conditions that face us in 2009.
All go in Saudi Arabia Weve opened our 21st hotel in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with 12 more Holiday Inn Express hotels coming soon.
The 120-bedroom InterContinental Al Khobar, situated a few minutes from the corniche in the heart of the city, opened in March.
The 12 Holiday Inn Express hotels are due to open within the next five years after we signed 1 an exclusive franchise development agreement with Siraj Capital Ltd. Staybridge comes to stay in Liverpool and Cairo Staybridge Suites has made its debut outside the US, with This reinforces our the opening of hotels in Liverpool, UK and Cairo, Egypt.
The commitment to the Liverpool hotel soon took the citys number one position for Kingdom as a vitally hotels on the TripAdvisor Popularity Index.
The Cairo property important destination is within the innovative CityStars retail complex, in which there for domestic and are two other IHG hotels.
The Staybridge Suites brand is aimed at guests who usually stay for more than five nights and incorporates homely touches such as a fireplace and communal kitchen.
At the opening Andy Cosslett said: Theres a growing type of traveller who is away from home for many days or even weeks at a time and would prefer their hotel to feel more like home.
Its this gap between conventional hotels and serviced apartments that Staybridge Suites has been designed to bridge.
Staybridge Suites celebrated its 10th anniversary in December with 152 hotels open worldwide and a pipeline of 166 hotels.
Agreements have been signed to open Staybridge Suites in two locations in Russia, a 176-room hotel in St Petersburg and a 78-bedroom hotel in Nizhny Novgorod, Russias third-largest city.
com Europe, Middle East and Africa 27 1.
Opening ceremony, Staybridge Suites Cairo, Egypt 2.
Photo by Marco Piastra, taken at Holiday Inn Express Malaga Airport, Spain The team prides itself on blending the new brand hallmarks with a little 2 local flavour.
InterContinental Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia 4.
The worlds largest hanging basket which marked the launch of Hotel Indigo London Paddington, UK 3 4 Waste slimmed at head office UK turns Indigo Our new global headquarters in The first Hotel Indigo outside the Americas Denham, Buckinghamshire, UK is has opened in Paddington, London.
a real-life example of sustainable The 64-bedroom hotel, which launched building design.
More than 90 per in December, incorporates architectural cent of waste generated during influences from nearby Paddington construction was reused or recycled, railway station, including murals of saving almost 400 tonnes of debris ornate metalwork.
The building, This individuality of design is thanks to which we moved into in August, also the Interpret Indigo concept, which allows features energy-efficient lighting developers to adapt the hotel design to and low-flow plumbing.
reflect the character of its location while During 2009, we will be opening maintaining the brands identity.
a prototype of a green hotel room Hotel Indigo has enjoyed great success in our marketing suite to act as since it made its debut in the US in 2004, a learning centre for our owners with 56 hotels now in the pipeline for this and general managers.
The hotels appeal to guests who seek more from their experiences for instance, travellers who like to add leisure time to a business trip and guests who want to stay somewhere distinctive.
28 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Asia Pacific With Hotel Indigo due to make its debut and our other brands growing fast, weve continued to develop quickly across the region, reports Peter Gowers.
Performance highlights Market performance Greater China: We continue to grow well in Greater China, with more than Revenue per available room 100 hotels now open and over 120 more in the pipeline see story, page 30.
RevPAR This makes us the largest international hotel operator in the country by number of rooms.
We now have more rooms here than in the UK.
The up 1.6% Chinese tourism market continues to grow rapidly, with the country due Continuing revenue to become one of the worlds biggest tourist destination within 10 years.
Were ideally positioned to benefit from this.
up 11.5% Japan: IHG ANA Hotels Group Japan, our joint venture with Japanese to $290m airline ANA, is developing well.
By the end of 2008, we had nine co-branded ANA Crowne Plaza hotels including our first new signing, Continuing operating profit the ANA Crowne Plaza Niigata.
We continue on our journey to rebrand all the former ANA hotels to ANA Crowne Plaza, ANA InterContinental up 7.9% and ANA Holiday Inn.
to $68m India: We have 13 hotels in India and there are still rich opportunities to expand here.
India already has quite a number of luxury hotels and the next wave of development will be hotels that offer a full service at affordable prices for domestic consumers.
So were launching Holiday Inn hotels across key metropolitan areas.
We signed several multi-hotel deals in 2008 and are well positioned to grow in this market over the coming years.
Opened and on the way In May we opened a 320-room Crowne Plaza at Singapores Changi Airport, the first international upscale hotel with direct access to Terminal 3.
We piloted new-look Holiday Inn hotels in six locations across Asia Pacific, including Shanghai, Bangkok and Sydney.
Feedback has been very positive and the relaunch continues to roll out to all 125 Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express hotels in the region.
One of the new-style hotels is the Holiday Inn Express Minzuyuan, in the Olympic precinct in Beijing, which opened in time for the 2008 Olympic Games.
The Greater China pipeline includes six with Shimao Group, a real estate developer that plans to open them under three IHG brands across four Chinese cities by 2013.
These six Weve achieved rapid hotels alone will add 2,100 rooms to our system in China.
growth in Greater South Korea will see almost 1,000 more InterContinental China in recent years and Holiday Inn rooms and suites, thanks to a deal and were leading the signed in August to manage three properties, all due competition in this to open by the end of 2010. important market.
Across Asia Pacific we now have Three years ago 199 hotels in our development pipeline, we had around 50 hotels and so the main focus for the next few years is now weve reached to get those open and trading successfully.
the milestone of This includes Asia Pacifics first Hotel Indigo and the first having over 100, Holiday Inn in Vietnam see stories, pages 30 and 31. with more than 120 in the pipeline.
Peter Gowers President, Asia Pacific Before exceptional items.
Photo by Akash Saigal, taken at Crowne Plaza, Gurgaon, India Its the little things that make a big difference.
Guests love seeing their name written in their cappuccino froth.
Winner of our 2008 Great Hotels Guests Love photography competition.
Holiday Inn Express Taichung Park, Taiwan 3.
1 Crowne Plaza Changi Airport, Singapore 2 3 Ozone cleans up Chinese honours prove in laundry test biggest is also best Twos company in Taiwan Its a winner Hotels across Asia Pacific Weve scooped several Only a year ago there were Holiday Inn has been are installing a new laundry awards in China, including no Holiday Inn Express hotels named Best Mid-Market system that uses ozone, a ones for best hotel company in Taiwan and now there Hotel Brand in the World natural cleaning agent, after and best employer.
The brand made and Best Mid-Market Hotel tests produced amazing its debut in September with Brand in Asia Pacific for We walked away with three results.
The Crowne Plaza the 138-room Holiday Inn the eighth year in a row.
honours at the China Hotel Coogee Beach in Australia Express at Taoyuan, near Starlight Awards, known The accolades, in the found ozone was great in a the international airport.
as the Oscars of Chinas Business Traveller Asia cold wash and enabled huge Then, one month later, it hospitality industry.
IHG was Pacific Awards, reflect the savings in gas 70 per cent, was joined by the 169-room named Best International views of frequent business electricity 55 per cent, Holiday Inn Express Taichung Hotel Company, Priority Club travellers who take part water 21 per cent, and Park, in the islands third Rewards was named Best in an annual survey of labour 17 per cent.
Each of them Hotel Loyalty Programme in travel-related services.
is the first international China and Edmond Ip, Chief branded hotel in its area.
Advisor for Asia Pacific, was presented with a Lifetime Achievement Award.
In addition, the China Hotel Annual Forum named IHG as Best Employer in Chinas Hotel Industry.
30 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Asia Pacific continued Relationship with owners We continue to extend our relationships with owners across the region.
This success was reflected by 100 owners who joined us for our biggest ever leadership conference, held in Shenzhen, Peoples Republic of China, in November.
Owners and general managers came together to hear updates and our plans for 2009.
We were delighted to be joined by Spence Wilson, the son of Holiday Inn founder Kemmons Wilson, who spoke to the audience about the importance of the Holiday Inn relaunch.
Indigo set to fly in Shanghai Asia Pacific is to open its first Hotel Indigo in one of the most prestigious locations in Shanghai, Peoples Republic of China.
The 180-room Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund will be on a riverfront site along the Huangpu River, with fantastic views of several historic sites.
Its due to open in time for the Shanghai World Expo in 2010.
1 Hotel Indigo is expanding rapidly across the globe, with 22 hotels now open Hitting 100!
Back in 1984, we were the first international hotel group to enter China when we opened a Holiday Inn in Beijing.
In September we celebrated the opening of our 100th hotel, the Crowne Plaza Beijing Zhongguancun, in the heart of Chinas silicon valley.
Our growth philosophy is summed up by the Chinese saying Qian Li Zhi Xing Shi Yu Zu Xia, which means In order to achieve long-term success we have to start with a strong foundation.
Our 24-year history, and great team, is that strong foundation.
Heres to many more years, and many more hotels, in China!
com Asia Pacific 31 3 Courageous Tess to the rescue Holiday Inn thinks big in Vietnam Many of our people displayed great courage when a massive earthquake Were set to open our hit the Sichuan Province of China first Holiday Inn hotels in in May.
Vietnam, with the signing of the Holiday Inn Hanoi Dong One was Tess He, a housekeeper at the Da and Holiday Inn Hoi Ann.
Holiday Inn Hanoi Dong Da When the property was evacuated as will be part of the MBLand a precaution against aftershocks an Tower, a mixed-development elderly man and woman were unable complex with an upmarket to leave so Tess went up to their room retail and commercial and carried the lady out of the hotel centre.
The hotel will be on her back.
in the highest and most No IHG property in the region suffered recognisable building of significant damage from the earthquake, the complex and will offer which measured 7.9 on the Richter more than 300 rooms scale.
But it affected the families of when it opens in 2012. many employees, so IHG carried out 2 a fundraising effort that generated more than one million Chinese Yuan InterContinental aims high about $150,000.
The money raised 1. was used to help the families with Crowne Plaza Zhongguancun, One of the regions tallest buildings Beijing, Peoples Republic of accommodation or equipment for is to have an InterContinental hotel on China our 100th hotel in China their homes and to support the its upper floors.
The InterContinental Chinese Red Cross.
Hanoi Landmark, due to open in 2011, 2. will offer incredible views from a Photo by Andrew Guo, taken 70-storey, 336-metre tower to be built at Crowne Plaza City Centre, in the Vietnamese capital.
The hotel Ningbo, Peoples Republic will have 383 rooms and suites and 300 of China Beijing serviced residences.
The hotels atrium Our chef makes la mian lobby, restaurants and bars will be on noodles by hand.
the 60th floor of the Keangnam Hanoi Shanghai Landmark Tower.
Private lifts will lead Sichuan 3. to guest rooms and suites and on to the Our courageous Tess He, worlds highest Club InterContinental InterContinental Century City lounge on the top floor.
Hong Kong Chengdu, Peoples Republic Vietnam has great growth potential of China for us.
Hanoi is expected to attract two million international travellers and seven million domestic visitors by 2010.
We have a development pipeline of nine hotels across four cities Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City, Danang and Nha Trang.
32 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Summary financial statement This Summary Financial This Summary Financial Statement provides a commentary Statement was approved by on the performance of the Group for the financial year ended the Board on 16 February 31 December 2008.
2009 and signed on its behalf by Richard Solomons.
It does not contain sufficient GROUP AND REGIONAL TRADING information to provide as Revenue from continuing operations increased by 4.7% to $1,854m and continuing complete an understanding operating profit increased by 12.9% to $535m during the 12 months ended of the Groups results and 31 December 2008. state of affairs as that The growth in revenues was driven by RevPAR gains in EMEA and Asia Pacific, provided in the Annual Report continued expansion in China and the Middle East and the first full year of trading at and Financial Statements the re-opened InterContinental London Park Lane.
Growth was achieved in all regions 2008.
That report may be in the first three quarters of the year.
However, the worldwide financial crisis had a obtained, free of charge, significant impact on the results for the final quarter.
In the fourth quarter, RevPAR by writing to IHG or the declined sharply across the Group falling by 6.5% globally, although IHGs brands Companys Registrar, continued to outperform their segments in all key markets.
Equiniti contact details Included in these results is $33m of liquidated damages.
Excluding these, revenue and are provided on page 45. operating profit from continuing operations increased by 2.8% and 5.9% respectively.
The auditors have issued During 2008, the IHG global system increased by 237 hotels 34,757 rooms: 5.9% an unqualified report on to 4,186 hotels 619,851 rooms.
Openings of 430 hotels 59,353 rooms reflected, the financial statements in particular, continued expansion in the US, the UK, the Middle East and China.
containing no statement under Section 237 2 or 237 3 At the end of 2008, the IHG pipeline totalled 1,775 hotels 245,085 rooms.
In the year, of the Companies Act 1985. room signings of 98,886 rooms led to pipeline growth of 19,213 rooms.
While signings were below the record level of 2007, the level of signings and pipeline growth Information concerning demonstrates strong demand for IHG brands across all regions and represents Directors emoluments is a key driver of future profitability.
In the Americas, revenue and operating profit from continuing operations increased by 2.0% to $920m and 2.5% to $451m respectively.
As a result of sharp falls in occupancy, RevPAR declined across all ownership types in the fourth quarter.
In the full year, the region achieved RevPAR growth across the owned and managed estates.
However, RevPAR declined marginally across the franchised portfolio.
In the US, for comparable hotels, all brands achieved premiums in RevPAR growth relative to their applicable market segment.
Continuing owned and leased revenue remained flat on 2007 at $257m but operating profit increased by 2.5% to $41m, driven by RevPAR growth of 0.8%, and a strong In 2008 we exceeded performance from the InterContinental Mark Hopkins, San Francisco.
by over 35% our The managed results benefited from the receipt of $13m in liquidated damages.
three-year Excluding this, revenue decreased by 0.6% to $155m and operating profit fell target to add by $3m to $38m.
Growth remained strong in the Latin America region, where 50,000-60,000 net rate-led RevPAR growth exceeded 15%.
Offsetting this was a fall in revenues rooms.
Continuing from hotels in the US, driven by RevPAR declines in the fourth quarter.
operating profit The franchised results in the Americas benefited from increased increased by royalty fees as a result of net room count growth of 4.6%.
However, 13% to $535m, fees associated with signings and conversions declined as a result despite the of lower real estate activity, due to the adverse impact of the global financial crisis, and lower liquidated damages collected on hotels sharp economic exiting the system.
downturn in the In EMEA, revenue and operating profit from continuing operations fourth quarter, increased by 5.3% to $518m and 27.6% to $171m respectively.
During and our RevPAR the year, the region achieved RevPAR growth of 3.6% driven by gains outperformed the across all brands operated under managed and franchise contracts.
industry in each In the owned and leased estate, continuing revenue decreased of our key markets by 1.6% to $240m.
However, strong revenue conversion at the and segments InterContinental London Park Lane contributed to the continuing around the world.
operating profit increase of $12m to $45m.
EMEA managed revenue increased by 0.6% to $168m and operating profit increased by 9.2% to $95m, driven by the receipt of $9m in Richard Solomons liquidated damages.
Strong growth in the Middle East continued through Finance Director the addition of new rooms and strong RevPAR growth of 20.2%.
FACTS AND FIGURES Summary financial statement 33 Independent auditors statement to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Franchised revenue and operating profit increased by 35.8% to $110m and We have examined the Groups Summary Financial Statement for the year ended 29.3% to $75m respectively, driven by room count expansion and RevPAR 31 December 2008 which comprises the growth in Continental Europe and the receipt of $7m of liquidated damages.
Group income statement, Group cash flow In Asia Pacific, revenue and operating profit increased by 11.5% to $290m and statement and Group balance sheet.
The region achieved strong RevPAR growth across report is made solely to the Companys all brands and continued its strategic expansion in China.
members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
In the owned and leased estate, revenue and operating profit increased by 9.7% To the fullest extent required by the law, to $159m and 19.4% to $43m respectively, as RevPAR growth continued at the we do not accept or assume responsibility InterContinental Hong Kong despite a slowdown during the fourth quarter.
to anyone other than the Company and Managed revenue increased by 14.1% to $113m as a result of increased room the Companys members as a body, for count in Greater China, comparable RevPAR growth of 10.7% in Beijing boosted our audit work, for this report, or for the by the Olympics, RevPAR growth of 9.9% in South East Asia and the opinions we have formed.
contribution from the joint venture with All Nippon Airways ANA.
Operating profit increased by 19.6% to $55m as revenue gains were partially offset by RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES continued infrastructure investment in China and Southern Asia.
OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors are responsible for Franchised revenues increased from $16m to $18m driven by the receipt of preparing the Annual Review and Summary $4m of liquidated damages.
Excluding this receipt, operating profit declined Financial Statement, in accordance with by $2m, primarily as a result of reduced fee income in India due to the removal applicable law.
Our responsibility is to of non-brand compliant hotels.
report to you our opinion on the consistency After a further $5m of the previously announced $10m investment to support of the Summary Financial Statement the launch of the ANA Crowne Plaza brand in Japan and the non-recurrence within the Annual Review and Summary of a $2m favourable legal settlement in 2007, Asia Pacific regional overheads Financial Statement with the full financial increased by $6m to $38m to support the rapid growth in the region.
statements, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance During 2008, net central costs reduced by 4.9% from $163m to $155m, as a with the relevant requirements of Section result of the receipt of a favourable $3m insurance settlement and the impact 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the of weaker sterling.
We also read the other information contained in EXCEPTIONAL OPERATING ITEMS, INTEREST AND TAXATION the Annual Review and Summary Financial Exceptional operating costs of $132m consisted of $35m in relation to the Statement and consider the implications Holiday Inn relaunch, $19m of cost savings-related severance costs, $96m for our report if we become aware of any of non-cash asset impairment reflecting the poorer trading environment apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary expected in 2009 and other items including gains on asset sales, which netted Financial Statement.
Net financial expenses increased from $90m in 2007 to $101m in 2008.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Average net debt levels in 2008 were higher than 2007, primarily as a result We conducted our examination in of the payment of the special dividend of 709m in June 2007.
Net debt levels accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The remained stable in the first half of 2008, reducing slightly in the second half Auditors Statement on the Summary of the year.
Financial Statement issued by the The effective rate of tax on the combined operating profit from continuing Auditing Practices Board.
Our report and discontinued operations was 23% 2007 22%.
on the Companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of EARNINGS PER SHARE, DIVIDENDS, TREASURY our audit opinion on those financial statements and the Directors Basic earnings per share in 2008 was 91.3, compared with 144.7 in 2007.
Adjusted earnings per share was 120.9, against 97.2 in 2007.
Adjusted continuing earnings per share was 117.8, 25.6% up on last year.
OPINION The Board has proposed a final dividend per share of 29.2 20.2p.
With the In our opinion the Summary Financial interim dividend per share of 12.2 6.4p, the full-year dividend per share for Statement is consistent with the full 2008 will total 41.4 26.6p.
financial statements, Directors Report In response to the challenging economic environment the Group increased and Directors Remuneration Report its focus on cash management during 2008.
In the year, $641m of cash was of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 generated from operating activities, an increase of $176m on 2007.
Overall, and complies with the applicable net debt decreased by $386m to $1,273m.
requirements of Section 251 of the RETURN OF FUNDS Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
During the year, IHG returned $139m to shareholders through share buybacks, Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor taking the total returned since March 2004 to more than 3.5bn.
As part of the London, 16 February 2009. focus on cash management the remaining 30m of IHGs fourth 150m share buyback programme has been deferred.
34 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Summary financial statement continued Group income statement 2008 2007 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total For the year ended 31 December 2008 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue Americas 920 920 902 902 EMEA 518 518 492 492 Asia Pacific 290 290 260 260 Central 126 126 117 117 Continuing operations 1,854 1,854 1,771 1,771 Discontinued operations 43 43 79 79 1,897 1,897 1,850 1,850 Operating profit Americas 451 99 352 440 17 457 EMEA 171 21 150 134 21 155 Asia Pacific 68 2 66 63 17 80 Central 155 10 165 163 5 158 Operating profit continuing operations 535 132 403 474 60 534 Net financial expenses 101 101 90 90 Profit before tax continuing operations 434 132 302 384 60 444 Tax 96 42 54 84 60 24 Profit after tax continuing operations 338 90 248 300 120 420 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 95 14 11 32 43 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent 347 85 262 311 152 463 Earnings per ordinary share cents Basic continuing operations 86.4 131.3 Adjusted continuing operations 117.8 93.8 Basic total operations 91.3 144.7 Adjusted total operations 120.9 97.2 Dividend per share cents Final paid in respect of prior year 29.2 25.9 Interim paid 12.2 11.5 Special interim paid 400.0 Final proposed 29.2 29.2 FACTS AND FIGURES Summary financial statement 35 Group cash flow statement 2008 2007 For the year ended 31 December 2008 $m $m Cash flow from operations 740 605 Net interest paid 100 66 Tax received paid on operating activities 1 74 Net cash from operating activities 641 465 Capital expenditure 108 186 Proceeds from disposal of operations, associates and other financial assets 86 211 Tax paid on disposals 3 64 Dividends paid 118 1,524 Purchase of own shares 139 162 Decrease increase in borrowings 316 1,108 Other financing movements 18 85 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents in the year 25 237 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 105 351 Exchange rate effects 48 9 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 82 105 Group balance sheet 2008 2007 31 December 2008 $m $m ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 1,684 1,934 Goodwill 143 221 Intangible assets 302 335 Investment in associates 43 65 Retirement benefit assets 40 49 Other financial assets 152 188 Total non-current assets 2,364 2,792 Inventories 4 6 Trade and other receivables 412 472 Current tax receivable 36 109 Cash and cash equivalents 82 105 Other financial assets 10 18 Total current assets 544 710 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 210 115 Total assets 3,118 3,617 LIABILITIES Loans and other borrowings 21 16 Trade and other payables 746 784 Current tax payable 374 426 Total current liabilities 1,141 1,226 Loans and other borrowings 1,334 1,748 Retirement benefit obligations 129 112 Trade and other payables 392 279 Deferred tax payable 117 148 Total non-current liabilities 1,972 2,287 Liabilities classified as held for sale 4 6 Total liabilities 3,117 3,519 Net assets 1 98 IHG shareholders equity 6 92 Minority equity interest 7 6 Total equity 1 98 Restated for a $17m reclassification between retirement benefit assets and deferred tax payable.
36 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Our senior leadership team Non-Executives A Non-Executive Director and a member David Webster Non-Executive Chairman Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director of the Nomination Committee Appointed a Director in April 2003.
Appointed Appointed a Director in August 2005.
Has # An independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Chairman in January 2004. over 30 years experience in advertising and and a member of the Audit, Remuneration Also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson was, until 2007, Associate Dean, External and Nomination Committees Cowell Limited and a Director of Temple Bar Relations at London Business School.
An independent Non-Executive Director Investment Trust PLC.
Formerly Chairman Also serves as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Audit and Nomination of Safeway plc.
Chairman of the Nomination of Hudson Highland Group Inc. Age 61.
An independent Non-Executive Director Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director and a member of the Remuneration David Kappler Senior Independent Appointed a Director in December 2005. and Nomination Committees # Non-Executive Director Was formerly Vice Chairman of the A member of the Executive Committee Appointed a Director and Senior Independent American Express Company.
Serves as a Not a main Board Director Director in June 2004.
Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Yum!
Brands, Inc. Chairman of Premier Foods plc and and of Modern Bank, N. A. and on a number a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
of US Councils and advisory boards.
Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Chairman Appointed a Director in December 2007. of the Audit Committee.
Is Chairman and President, North Asia # Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director Region, President, Business Development, Appointed a Director in April 2003.
Was Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, President, Unilever Home and Personal Eastman Kodak Company.
Also a Care, and a Director of Unilever PLC and Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Standing: Tracy Robbins Kirk Kinsell George Turner Peter Gowers Jennifer Laing Seated: Tom Conophy Jonathan Linen David Webster FACTS AND FIGURES Our senior leadership team 37 Executives Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive Peter Gowers President, Asia Pacific Tom Seddon Executive Vice President Appointed Chief Executive in February 2005.
Appointed and Chief Marketing Officer Joined the Group from Cadbury Schweppes plc President, Asia Pacific in 2007, with Having served in senior positions with where he was most recently President, Europe, responsibility for the business development IHGs predecessor companies until 2004, Middle East & Africa.
Serves on the Executive and performance of all the hotel brands and rejoined the Group in 2007 from SUBWAY.
Committee of The World Travel & Tourism properties in the Asia Pacific region.
Responsible for worldwide brand Council and the Presidents Committee of management, global sales, marketing, Kirk Kinsell President, EMEA the CBI.
Age 53. loyalty programmes and corporate Joined the Group in 2002.
Jim Abrahamson President, President, EMEA in 2007.
Responsible The Americas for the business development and Richard Solomons Finance Director Joined the Group in January 2009 from performance of all the hotel brands and Finance Director since April 2003.
Responsible for properties in the EMEA region.
Responsible for corporate and regional the business development and performance finance, Group financial control, strategy, Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, of all the hotel brands and properties in the investor relations, tax, treasury and Global Human Resources Americas region.
Joined the Group in December 2005 Tom Conophy Executive Vice President from Compass Group PLC.
Responsible for George Turner Executive Vice President, and Chief Information Officer global talent management and leadership General Counsel and Company Secretary Joined the Group in February 2006 from development, reward strategy and Joined the Group in September 2008 Starwood Hotels & Resorts International.
Age 45. from Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
Responsible for global technology, including Appointed EVP, General Counsel and IT systems and information management Company Secretary in January 2009. throughout the Group.
Responsible for corporate governance, risk management, insurance, data privacy, company secretariat and legal.
David Kappler Richard Solomons Tom Seddon Ralph Kugler Jim Abrahamson Andrew Cosslett Ying Yeh 38 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Summary Directors report Activities of the Group Directors The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts, Details of current Board members are shown on pages 36 and 37. with franchising, management, ownership and leasing interests Jennifer Laing, Jonathan Linen, and Richard Solomons are in almost 4,200 establishments, with nearly 620,000 guest rooms standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
The Executive Directors have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
A review of the performance of the Group is contained in the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review on pages The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Group 3 to 5, the business reviews presented on pages 20 to 31 and maintains insurance cover for and has provided indemnities to its in the Summary Financial Statement on pages 32 to 35.
Directors and officers, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Significant growth during the year Employees During 2008, the Group increased its development pipeline to IHG directly employed an average of 8,334 people worldwide during 1,775 hotels 245,085 rooms, up by 6% and 8.5% respectively 2008, whose costs are borne by the Group.
When the whole IHG compared with 2007. estate is taken into account, approximately 330,000 people are employed globally across IHGs brands.
The Group is committed to Results and dividends providing staff with equality of opportunity, without discrimination.
Great emphasis is placed on employee communications, particularly The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was $316m.
An on matters relating to the Groups business and its performance.
interim dividend of 6.4p per share was paid on 3 October 2008.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 20.2p per share Donations to be paid on 5 June 2009 to shareholders on the Register at close of business on 27 March 2009.
During the year, the Group donated $1,394,400 in support of community initiatives and charitable causes, including donations Share repurchases in kind.
No payments were made for political purposes.
During the year, 9,219,325 ordinary shares were purchased and Going concern cancelled at a cost of 69,995,626 excluding transaction costs under IHGs planned share repurchase programme.
As at the date The wider economic environment currently creates trading of this report, 30m of the Companys 150m share repurchase uncertainty for the hotel industry and IHG.
However, at the end programme has yet to be completed.
The programme is currently of 2008, the Group was trading significantly within its banking deferred in order to preserve cash and maintain the strength of covenants and debt facilities.
IHGs fee-based model and wide IHGs balance sheet.
geographic spread also mean that it is well placed to manage through the current economic downturn.
The share buyback authority remains in force until the Annual General Meeting in 2009, and a resolution to renew the authority The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 will be put to shareholders at that Meeting.
have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis.
Share capital Auditors At 31 December 2008, the Companys issued share capital The Directors confirm that they have taken steps to make 29 consisted of 285,552,193 ordinary shares of 13 47p each.
themselves aware of relevant audit information.
None of the There are no special control rights or restrictions on transfer Directors is aware of any relevant audit information which has attaching to these ordinary shares.
not been disclosed to the auditors.
During the year, no awards or grants over shares were made The reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the that would be dilutive of the Companys ordinary share capital.
Company will be put to members at the Annual General Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings Annual General Meeting As at 16 February 2009, the Company had been notified by The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00am shareholders of the following substantial interests, representing on Friday, 29 May 2009 is contained in a circular which is sent 3% or more of its ordinary share capital: to shareholders with this Review.
Ellerman Corporation Limited 10% Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited 5.60% Cedar Rock Capital Limited 5.07% Legal & General Group Plc 4.09% Lloyds TSB Group plc 3.84% Now called Lloyds Banking Group plc.
FACTS AND FIGURES Summary Directors report and Corporate governance 39 Corporate governance Combined Code compliance A performance evaluation of the Board and of individual Directors was undertaken for 2008.
This concluded that the Board as a whole The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set out operates in an effective manner, and that each Director continues in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and considers that to make an effective contribution, and retains a strong commitment the Company has complied with Code requirements throughout to the role.
The work of each main Committee was also considered the year ended 31 December 2008. to be effective.
Internal control Company Secretary The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control All Directors have access to the advice and services of the and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
His duties include responsibility for advising to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the the Board on corporate governance, and for ensuring good procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating information flows to the Board and its Committees and between procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Shareholder relations The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year and risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it can only releases quarterly results.
In addition, regular meetings are held provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material with major institutional shareholders to discuss progress of the misstatement or loss.
Whilst areas for improvement in internal business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, the control have been identified and actions initiated, no significant Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are shortcomings in internal control have been identified from the available to meet with major shareholders to discuss governance annual assessment.
and strategy, and to understand any issues and concerns.
Board and Committees The Annual General Meeting provides an additional useful opportunity to meet private shareholders.
Information of interest The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic to investors is also maintained on the Companys website.
direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
It also ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
There are eight regular Board meetings a year and further meetings as needed.
Summary Audit Committee report David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
The Audit Committee, which is chaired by a financial In addition, a team of five experienced independent Non-Executive expert, supports the Board in meeting its responsibilities Directors represent a strong source of advice and judgement.
The in relation to the integrity of the Groups financial role of David Kappler, the Senior Independent Director, includes statements and associated announcements, the adequacy being available to liaise with shareholders who have issues to raise.
of internal control and risk management systems and the Induction programmes are prepared for new Directors and ongoing appointment and work of the internal and external auditors.
training needs for all Directors are kept under review.
The external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit both have the opportunity to meet privately with the Committee.
In addition to the Executive Committee, the following main Committees of the Board have been established: Audit Committee, During the year, the Committees deliberations included Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
The Audit, a wide range of matters addressing all its main areas of Remuneration and Nomination Committees consist wholly of responsibility.
The Committees main focus was to review Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Company is a the quarterly, interim and full-year financial results and member of the Nomination Committee only.
The terms of reference to review the effectiveness of internal control, financial of these Committees were reviewed during 2008 to ensure that reporting and risk management processes, through reports they continue to reflect best practice, and are available on the and presentations received from internal audit, the external Companys website or from the Company Secretarys office auditors and management.
Particular consideration was on request.
also given to the Group tax strategy, the implications of new accounting standards, and the impact on IHG of increased A new Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board was volatility and risk aversion in the financial markets.
com investors 40 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Summary remuneration report Introduction Key developments The Summary Remuneration Report is an extract of information from 2008 was a good year for IHG, despite the tough market conditions.
the full Remuneration Report contained in the Annual Report and Growth in operating profit from continuing operations before Financial Statements 2008, a copy of which is available on request and exceptional items was 13% and IHG comfortably exceeded its can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
com investors three-year target of adding 50,000-60,000 net rooms by the under financial library.
The Remuneration Report will be put to the end of 2008. vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2009 is expected to be a highly challenging year in light of the global economic climate.
Consequently, there will be The Remuneration Committee a stronger focus on cost control and on preserving profitability.
The Committee agrees, on behalf of the Board, all aspects of the Some adjustments have therefore been made to the operation remuneration of the Executive Directors and other members of of incentive plans in 2009. the Executive Committee.
It also agrees the strategy, direction Achieving IHGs earnings targets is a priority.
Therefore, for and policy for the remuneration of other senior management.
the 2009 Annual Bonus Plan, the weighting placed on earnings before interest and tax EBIT has been increased.
In addition, Remuneration policy specific cost-savings targets will be included in individuals key For Executive Directors and for senior executives, the following performance objectives.
For the Long Term Incentive Plan, the policy has applied throughout the year and, except where stated, current measures of TSR and EPS will be retained, with targets will apply in future years, subject to periodic review.
The Committee will be conducting a Overall remuneration is intended to attract and retain high-quality further review of executive incentive arrangements in 2009. executives, to reward achievements aligned with strategic objectives, Also, in view of the challenging cost environment, base salaries and to facilitate global assignments.
Upper quartile rewards are and fees for Executive and Non-Executive Directors have been provided for achievement of challenging targets.
The Group has performance-related reward policies, designed to provide the appropriate balance between fixed remuneration and Remuneration structure variable risk reward.
The normal policy for Executive Directors Base salary and benefits is that using target or expected value calculations, their Salary is based on both individual performance and market performance-related incentives will equate to approximately 70% information.
Internal relativities and salary levels in the wider of total annual remuneration excluding pensions and benefits.
employment market are also taken into account.
Benefits in the main relate to company cars and private healthcare cover.
Fixed approx 30% Variable approx 70% Annual bonus Challenging performance goals are set and these must be achieved Short-term Long-term before the target bonus becomes payable.
These goals include both Base salary incentive incentive personal objectives and targets linked to the Groups financial and operational performance.
For awards in 2008 and to be made in respect of 2009, the target Annual Bonus Plan Long Term Incentive Plan bonus award level is 115% of salary, subject to a maximum bonus Cash and Performance Shares Deferred Shares of 200% of salary.
Half of the bonus is in shares, payable three years after the award date.
No matching shares are awarded.
Long Term Incentive Plan Linked to individual Linked to relative performance, financial TSR and IHGs Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP aims to encourage Key and operational adjusted EPS continuing improvement in the Groups performance over the TSR Total Shareholder Return measures growth EPS Earnings Per Share longer term, through the annual award of shares, subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition, normally measured over Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are paid fees three years.
approved by the full Board, taking account of the fees paid in other Generally, a separate performance cycle commences each year.
Higher fees are paid to the Senior The Companys TSR is measured against the Dow Jones World Independent Director, who chairs the Audit Committee, and to the Hotels index.
Graded awards are made for performance equal to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The second performance measure is growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS.
In light of the significant market slowdown, the EPS growth scale for the 2009 2011 LTIP performance cycle has been reduced, but it is considered stretching in the context of market expectations of industry-wide revenue per available room RevPAR decline.
Due to the reduced EPS scale, the maximum award level for the EPS element of the LTIP performance measures will be reduced by half.
FACTS AND FIGURES Summary remuneration report 41 Share ownership External appointments Executive Directors are expected to hold all shares earned net of Executive Directors are allowed to accept one non-executive any share sales required to meet personal tax liabilities from the appointment, subject to Board approval, as long as this is not Groups remuneration plans while the value of their holding is likely to lead to a conflict of interest.
less than twice their base salary or three times in the case of the Chief Executive.
Pension arrangements Executive Directors participated in the relevant Group pension Contracts of service schemes either in the UK or in the US.
The Remuneration Committees policy is for Executive Directors to have rolling contracts with a notice period of 12 months.
All Executive Directors contracts were fully compliant with the Committees policy throughout 2008.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
David Websters appointment as Non-Executive Chairman is subject to six months notice.
Performance graph Throughout 2008, IHG was a member of the FTSE 100 index.
The following graph shows the Companys TSR performance against that achieved by the FTSE 100 index for the last five financial years.
300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 2003 31 Dec 2004 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Total Shareholder Return Index FTSE 100 Total Shareholder Return Index Source: Datastream Directors emoluments The emoluments shown below represent salary, fees and cash bonuses excluding pensions and bonus awards paid in shares and tax assessable benefits and allowances, including company cars and healthcare cover.
1 Jan 2008 to 1 Jan 2007 to 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 000 000 Executive Directors 1 Stevan Porter relinquished his responsibilities in July 2008, due to illness.
His emoluments for the year include a Andrew Cosslett 1,307 1,276 pro-rated cash payment in respect of his participation in the Annual Bonus 1 Stevan Porter 1,101 677 Plan for 2008 and sundry accruals and allowances, paid to his estate.
2 2 Richard Solomons undertook the additional role of interim President of the Richard Solomons 980 771 Americas region from July 2008, until the end of 2008, ensuring a smooth Non-Executive Directors transition for Stevan Porters successor, who joined the Group in January 2009.
His emoluments include additional salary and participation in David Webster 392 392 a special cash bonus plan for this period.
David Kappler 95 95 3 Ralph Kugler became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 Ralph Kugler 72 60 on 1 June 2008, for which a higher fee is paid.
Jennifer Laing 60 60 4 Sir David Prosser retired as a Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 31 May 2008.
Robert C Larson 60 60 5 Ying Yeh was appointed as a Director on 1 December 2007.
Jonathan Linen 60 60 6 Richard Hartman retired as a Director on 25 September 2007.
His 4 Sir David Prosser 33 80 emoluments include salary and benefits for 2007 and Annual Bonus Plan 5 payments made in 2008, in respect of the 2007 financial year.
Sir Ian Prosser Ying Yeh 60 5 retired as a Director on 31 December 2003.
However, he had an ongoing 6 Former Directors 1 1,124 healthcare benefit of 1,150 during the year.
Total 4,221 4,660 42 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Summary remuneration report continued Long-term reward Executive share options Between 2003 and 2005, grants of options were made under the IHG Executive Share Option Plan.
No executive share options have been granted since 2005.
Executive share options held at 31 December 2008 by Directors who served during the year are summarised as follows: Weighted Executive Exercised Executive average options held during options held at option 4 Directors at 1 Jan 2008 the year 31 Dec 2008 price p 1 Andrew Cosslett 157,300 157,300 619.83 2 Stevan Porter 321,630 321,630 531.82 3 Richard Solomons 330,870 330,870 532.36 1 Exercisable up to April 2015.
2 Stevan Porters outstanding vested options are exercisable by his personal representatives until 6 August 2009.
3 Options granted to Richard Solomons in 2004 are exercisable up to April 2014: those granted in 2005 are exercisable up to April 2015.
4 Weighted average option price of options held at 31 December 2008.
No Director exercised options during the year.
The gain on exercise by Directors in aggregate was therefore nil in the year ended 31 December 2008 2007 nil.
Annual Bonus Plan ABP Messrs Cosslett, Porter and Solomons participated in the ABP during the year ended 31 December 2008.
Messrs Cosslett and Solomons are expected to receive an award on 23 February 2009.
Matching shares are no longer awarded.
Andrew Cossletts total bonus was 52.5% of his base salary, Stevan Porters total bonus was 45.25% of his base salary and Richard Solomons total bonus was 52.5% of his base salary.
In each case, bonus awards were based on Group Regional earnings before interest and tax performance and on net annual rooms additions, and one matching share was awarded for every two bonus shares earned.
2 In addition to 45,509 ABP shares which vested normally in March 2008, in accordance with Plan rules, Stevan Porters ABP shares, which were due to vest from 2009 onwards, vested early at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, following his death in August 2008.
The value of these entitlements was calculated as at 7 November 2008.
The shares will be released to Mr Porters estate following completion of UK probate in due course.
FACTS AND FIGURES Summary remuneration report 43 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP In 2008, there were three cycles in operation and one cycle which vested.
The awards made to Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2008 in respect of the performance cycles ending on 31 December 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 and the maximum pre-tax number of shares due if performance targets are achieved in full are set out in the table below.
For the cycle ending on 31 December 2008, the Company finished third in the TSR group and achieved relative cumulative annual rooms growth CAGR of 4.9%.
Accordingly, 86.7% of the award will vest on 18 February 2009.
Maximum Maximum LTIP LTIP value shares shares based awarded vested on share Maximum during during Market Maximum price of LTIP Awards the year the year price per Value at LTIP Awards 562p at held at 1 Jan 2008 to 1 Jan 2008 to share at vesting held at 31 Dec 2008 Directors 1 Jan 2008 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2008 vesting 31 Dec 2008 1 2 Andrew Cosslett 636,446 253,559 152,738 827p 1,263,143 613,805 3,449,584 1 2 Stevan Porter 399,807 147,209 96,719 827p 799,866 3 171,468 542.5p 930,214 1 2 Richard Solomons 407,129 161,241 97,632 827p 807,417 391,820 2,202,028 Total 1,005,625 5,651,612 1 This award is based on performance to 31 December 2010 where the performance measure relates to both the Companys TSR relative to the Dow Jones World Hotels index and the compound annual growth rate in adjusted earnings per share EPS over the performance period.
2 This award was based on performance to 31 December 2007 where the performance measure related to both the Companys TSR against a group of seven other comparator companies and cumulative annual growth rate CAGR of rooms in the IHG system relative to a group of five other comparator companies.
The number of shares released was graded, according to a where the Company finished in the TSR comparator group, with 50% of the award being released for first or second position and 10% of the award being released for median position: and b relative CAGR of rooms, with 50% of the award being released for 3.4% upper quartile CAGR and 10% of the award being released for 2.4% median CAGR.
The Company finished in fourth place in the TSR group and achieved a relative CAGR of 3.1%.
Accordingly, 55.3% of the award vested on 20 February 2008.
3 In addition to 96,719 LTIP shares which vested normally in February 2008 see note 2 above, in accordance with Plan rules, Stevan Porters LTIP shares, which were due to vest in 2009, 2010 and 2011, were pro-rated to reflect his contractual service and performance during the applicable performance periods.
The Remuneration Committee calculated the value of these entitlements as at 7 November 2008 at which point they vested.
The shares will be transferred to Mr Porters estate following completion of UK probate in due course.
Pensions UK plans final salary The increases in transfer value over the year less Directors contributions and accrued pensions at the year end were: Accrued Age at Increase in pension at Directors 31 Dec 2008 transfer value 31 Dec 2008 Andrew Cosslett 53 807,800 102,600 Richard Solomons 47 1,035,800 197,300 US and International plans defined contribution The Company contributions made in respect of Stevan Porter during the year were 67,700.
44 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Investor information Registrar ShareGift For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share of a holders change of address and for information on a range donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, of shareholder services please contact the Companys Registrar, the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be Equiniti details shown on page 45. obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.
org or by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
Website and electronic communication Corporate Responsibility Report Following changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006, as part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost and environmental IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report for impact of producing and distributing printed documents in very 2008 covering progress on a range of environmental, social and large quantities, IHGs Annual Report and Annual Review have community issues.
This is available on our corporate website been made available to the majority of shareholders through the and can be downloaded directly at www.
com responsibility Companys website www.
com investors under financial library.
Shareholder security Share dealing services Many companies have become aware that their shareholders Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares.
For more have received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence information on this service, call 0871 384 2132.
They also offer a concerning investment matters.
These are typically from telephone and internet dealing service, Shareview Dealing, which overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling shares.
to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk For telephone dealings call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am and shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly 4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings log on to known as boiler rooms.
More detailed information on this or www.
co. uk dealing similar activity can be found on the Financial Services Authority website www.
uk Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
Equiniti offer ISAs in IHG shares.
Further information may be obtained from Equiniti details shown on page 45, or through American Depositary Receipts ADRs their helpline, telephone 0871 384 2244.
The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs and Dividend services traded under the symbol IHG.
Each ADR represents one ordinary The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for share.
All enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts and payment shareholdersto purchase additional IHG shares with their cash of dividends should be directed to JPMorgan Chase & Co. the dividends.
For further information about the DRIP, please contact authorised depositary bank details shown on page 45. our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268.
A DRIP application and The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the information booklet are available on the Companys website Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files www.
com investors under shareholder centre shares and with the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
be found on the Companys website www.
com investors under Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly into shareholder centre shares and dividends adr or by visiting the a bank or building society account, or who wish to amalgamate SECs website at www.
shtml their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of shareholder communications should contact our Registrar.
Summary forward-looking statement Overseas shareholders can have their dividends paid direct to their This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains bank account or by cheque in another major currency.
Please contact certain forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation our Registrar for further details.
Charges are payable for this service.
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
By their If you think that you have out of date dividend warrants or nature, such statements involve uncertainty: as a consequence, outstanding dividend payments please contact our Registrar for actual results and developments may differ materially from those further information.
expressed in or implied by such statements.
A more detailed explanation of the risks and uncertainties related to forwardShare price information looking statements is set out on page 103 of the Annual Report The latest share price is available in the financial press, on Ceefax and Financial Statements 2008, copies of which are available from and Teletext and also on the Financial Times Cityline Service, the registered office of the Company or on the Companys website telephone 09058 171690 calls charged at 75p per minute from at www.
Further details of the share price may be found on the Companys website www.
com investors under share price.
Changes to the base cost of IHG shares Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held since April 2003 up to December 2008, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, may be found on the Companys website at www.
com cgt FACTS AND FIGURES Investor information and Financial calendar 45 Financial calendar 2008 Payment of interim dividend of 6.4p per share 12.2 cents per ADR 3 October Financial year end 31 December 2009 Preliminary announcement of annual results 17 February Final dividend of 20.2p per share 29.2 cents per ADR : Ex-dividend date 25 March Record date 27 March Announcement of first quarter results 12 May Annual General Meeting 29 May Final dividend of 20.2p per share 29.2 cents per ADR : Payment date 5 June Announcement of interim results 11 August Interim dividend: Payment date October Announcement of third quarter results 10 November Financial year end 31 December 2010 Preliminary announcement of annual results February Registered office ADR depositary Priority Club Rewards Designed and produced by Likemind Broadwater Park, Denham JPMorgan Chase & Co.
If you wish to enquire about, or www.
com Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR PO Box 64504 to join Priority Club Rewards, St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 IHGs loyalty programme for Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 Printed by USA frequent travellers, please go to Royle Print Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 www.
com Telephone 800 990 1135 For general information about or telephone: US callers toll free This Report is printed the Groups business please 1 651 453 2128 44 0 870 607 2582 on 9lives 80 Silk which contact the Corporate Affairs non-US callers or 0870 60 PCLUB is made up of 60% FSC department at the above in Europe, Middle East and post-consumer recycled address.
For all other enquiries Email Africa toll charges apply : fibre, 20% pre-consumer please contact the Company jpmorgan.
com recycled fibre and 20% Secretariat at the above www.
com 1 888 211 9874 FSC virgin fibre from address or email in US and Canada toll free : FSC managed forests.
com Our printer is also FSC 00 1 800 272 9273 JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Carbon Neutral Registrar in Mexico toll free : Bank of America Merrill Lynch accredited.
Equiniti, Aspect House 801 975 3013 Spanish Auditors Spencer Road, Lancing in Central and South America West Sussex BN99 6DA Ernst & Young LLP toll charges apply : Telephone 0871 384 2132 801 975 3063 English Investment bankers UK callers in Central and South America Citi 44 121 415 7034 toll charges apply : JPMorgan Cazenove Limited non-UK callers Bank of America Merrill Lynch 63 2 857 8788 www.
co. uk from most countries in Asia Solicitors Pacific toll charges apply.
For those with hearing difficulties a text phone is available on Linklaters LLP 0871 384 2255 for UK callers with compatible equipment.
Telephone calls to these numbers are currently charged at 8p per minute if using a BT landline.
Other telephone service providers may For further investor charge different rates.
com investors InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park Denham, Buckinghamshire, UB9 5HR Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 Holiday Inn London-Heathrow, UK make a booking at www.
