Supplem Fie nn at na cria y l in stfo atre m m ae tinon ts 181 Glossary Accident Frequency Rate AFR CR The number of Lost Time Accidents LTAs divided by the number Corporate responsibility.
of hours worked, multiplied by 100,000.
CSR Annual General Meeting AGM Corporate social responsibility.
Annual General Meeting of shareholders of the Company.
Dark spread Asset-backed trading The difference between the cost of coal to generate electricity The selling of the electricity generated and fuel used by our power and the price at which electricity is sold.
Debt capitalisation Availability Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and total equity.
A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually Demerger available to be generated during the period, after taking account The process whereby National Power split its UK and international of both planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage operations International Power into separate businesses.
of the maximum potential electrical energy generation.
Desalination plant Bond Plant which produces drinking water from sea water.
Financial instrument that obligates the issuing company the borrower to make specified payments to the holder the lender.
Due diligence A process undertaken before the acquisition of a business to ensure Brownfield all significant risks, rewards and issues are identified and considered An area of land that has previously been developed, such as the site before any offer is made to the vendor or an acquisition takes place.
Emission allowances Call option Under various environmental schemes, emission allowances are An option to buy a security at a pre-determined price.
required to cover the amount of relevant emissions made by a power Capacity installed station.
Cap and trade schemes are a common type of scheme.
Under Generator capacity measured in megawatts, usually indicated a cap and trade scheme, operators are required to purchase sufficient on a nameplate physically attached to the generator.
emission allowances to cover their actual emissions, and the operator may or may not be granted an initial volume of allowances.
Examples Combined cycle plant of such schemes include the EU Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT the combination of a gas turbine which covers emissions of CO, based on a cap and trade system.
2 GT and steam turbine ST in a configuration that enables electricity Other examples include the Clean Air Act in the US which covers to be generated directly from a generator driven by the GT and, emissions of NOx and SOx.
by using exhaust gases from the GT to produce steam, a ST coupled to the same generator or another generator.
EPC contract Engineering, procurement and construction contract, used principally CEO for the building of power stations by a turnkey provider.
EPS CFO Earnings per share.
It is calculated by dividing the profit after interest, Chief Financial Officer.
tax and minority interests by the weighted average number of CO Ordinary Shares in issue.
ERCOT Cogeneration Electric Reliability Council of Texas responsible for managing the The simultaneous generation of electricity and heat in the form Texas generating and transmission systems.
of steam, typically where the need for both arises for industrial ETS or commercial purposes and where the steam is generated by Emissions trading scheme programme for the trading of emissions utilising the waste heat from electricity generation.
permits relating to CO output.
2 Combined Code EUETS The Code which sets out the expected corporate governance European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.
standards for companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
FGD Corridor approach Flue gas desulphurisation a process which removes sulphur from Under this approach to recognising surpluses and deficits in defined the flue gas emissions of a coal plant.
benefit pension plans, actuarial gains and losses are not recognised immediately.
Only when the cumulative gains or losses fall outside Forced outage rate the corridor is a specified portion recognised in the income statement A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually from the following year onwards.
The corridor is 10% of the present unavailable for generation during the period, after taking account value of the pension rights accrued or of the fund assets at market of planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of value, if greater.
the maximum potential electrical energy generation.
C Go lo m ss pa arn yy financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 182 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 Glossary continued IASs International Accounting Standards.
Fossil fuel IASB It is generally accepted that fossil fuels are formed from the fossilised International Accounting Standards Board.
remains of dead plants and animals by exposure to heat and pressure in the Earths crust over hundreds of millions of years.
They are found ICOM within the top layer of the earths crust and range from very volatile Investment Committee.
materials with low carbon to hydrogen ratios like methane, to those IFRSs with high carbon to hydrogen ratios like liquid petroleum.
They also International Financial Reporting Standards.
include non-volatile materials composed of almost pure carbon, like anthracite coal.
Fossil fuels are non-renewable resources because they IPO take millions of years to form.
International Power Opatovice A. S. a subsidiary in the Czech Republic which provides power and district heating to the city of Prague.
Functional currency The currency of the primary economic environment in which IPP the entity operates.
Gearing ISO 14001 Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The international standard of environment management systems.
Generator nameplate capacity Joule The maximum output of a generator, under specific conditions A measure of energy work done, the ability to generate one watt designated by the manufacturer.
Greenfield land KAPCO A piece of undeveloped land, either currently used for agriculture The Kot Addu Power Company.
KPI Grid the Key performance indicator.
Kilowatt hour kWh GT A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load, such Gas turbine.
as a small light bulb, drawing power for one hour.
The kilowatt-hour kWh is 1,000 times larger than a watt-hour and is a useful size for GW measuring the energy use of households and small businesses and Gigawatt, one thousand million watts.
also for the production of energy by small power plants.
A typical Gigawatt hour GWh household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month.
A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load, such Kyoto Protocol as a small light bulb, drawing power for one hour.
The kilowatt-hour A protocol to the International Framework Convention on Climate kWh is 1,000 times larger than a watt-hour and is a useful size for Change with the objective of reducing greenhouse gases in an effort measuring the energy use of households and small businesses and to prevent anthropogenic climate change.
A typical household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month.
The LCPD gigawatt-hour GWh is 1,000,000 times larger than the kilowatt-hour Large Combustion Plant Directive.
and is used for measuring the energy output of large power plants.
LDs Hedge contracts Liquidated damages, being a reasonable pre-estimate of loss specified A contract that gives protection against risks of future price in a contract, payable if one party breaches one part of a contract.
LNG Heat recovery steam generator HRSG Liquefied natural gas.
Used in Combined Cycle Plants.
Load factor HS&E The proportion of electricity actually sold, compared with the Health, safety and environment.
maximum possible sales of electricity at maximum net capacity.
HUBCO Lost Time Accident LTA The Hub Power Company.
Letter of Credit LoC A credit facility provided by a bank.
Supplem Fie nn at na cria y l in stfo atre m m ae tinon ts 183 M&A Non-recourse debt Mergers and acquisitions.
Debt secured on an asset, and where the lender has no recourse to the shareholder.
Mark to market The act of attributing a fair or market value to a financial instrument NOx rather than its historical cost.
Marking to market is required under Oxides of nitrogen.
accounting rules for certain derivatives and financial instruments.
NPV Merchant market Net present value, being the value of an asset calculated by reference A merchant market is a deregulated market.
It is a market in which to its future cash flows.
electricity is bought and sold competitively by multiple market O&E participants.
Merchant plant O&M Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets selling Operations and maintenance, usually used in the context of operating power into the traded market without long-term Power Purchase and maintaining a power station.
OCGT MIGD Open cycle gas turbine turbines, typically fuelled by gas or diesel oil, Millions of imperial gallons per day.
are used to drive the generators to produce electricity, with no use of MISO the waste heat for subsequent power generation.
Offtake agreement Mitsui Power purchase agreement between a company owning a power Mitsui & Co. of Japan.
station and its customer the offtaker whereby the customer takes the electricity generated by a power station.
Mothball To temporarily suspend operation at a project in such a way that OHSAS 18001 it can be returned to service in the future.
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18001.
A management system specification, developed by British Standards MoU Institute which is now an accepted international standard, for health Memorandum of understanding.
and safety which is compatible with ISO 9001:1994 Quality and MW ISO 14001:1996 Environmental management.
Megawatt: one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts or one million watts.
OPERA Megawatt hour MWh Operating plant engineering risk assessment, an internally developed A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load, such tool for assessing engineering risk at assets.
The kilowatt-hour OSA kWh is 1,000 times larger than a watt-hour and is a useful size for Oil supply agreement.
measuring the energy use of households and small businesses and also for the production of energy by small power plants.
A typical Outage household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month.
The When a generating unit is removed from service to perform megawatt-hour MWh is 1,000 times larger than the kilowatt-hour maintenance work.
This can either be planned or unplanned.
Peak load MWth The maximum demand for electricity during a specified high demand One megawatt of thermal power, which is used to measure heat.
This may require use of plant for example pumped storage that is kept in reserve for peak periods.
National Allocation Plan The Plan issued under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme that sets out Peaking plant how greenhouse gas emission allowances will be allocated to affected Plant that runs only in times of short supply normally during peak industry sectors and the carbon-producing assets within the relevant demand, when prices are high.
PJM NEPOOL Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland power pool.
C Go lo m ss pa arn yy financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 184 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 Glossary continued SOx Oxides of sulphur.
Power Purchase Agreement PPA Spark spread See also Offtake agreement.
A PPA is generally a long-term contract The difference between the gas cost to generate electricity between an electricity generator and a purchaser of energy or capacity and the price at which electricity is sold.
Spot price Proprietary trading Market price at a particular point in time.
The trading of commodities for the purposes of making a profit, when the commodity, such as electricity, is not generated by our own power Spread stations or purchased for use by our own power stations, also known The difference between the fuel costs to generate electricity as non-asset backed trading.
and the price at which electricity is sold.
Pumped storage Technical availability A method of energy generation that involves moving water between A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually reservoirs at different elevations.
When electricity prices are low, available to be generated during the period, after taking account typically overnight, electricity from the grid system is used to pump of both planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage water into a raised reservoir and then at times of peak demand, when of the maximum potential electrical energy generation.
electricity prices are higher, the water is released back into the lower Tolling agreement reservoir through a turbine.
A form of long-term electricity contract where the buyer of electricity Put option also supplies the fuel and the generator provides plant and operational An option to sell a security back to the issuer at a pre-determined services.
TSR PWPA Total shareholder return.
Power and water purchase agreements.
Turnkey contract Recourse debt A contract where one party takes full responsibility for the Debt where the lender has recourse to parties other than the construction and commissioning of a plant, delivering the plant borrower, usually a parent company or shareholder.
in full working order to the owner.
Reserve margin Turnbull Guidance The amount of available plant reserve capacity above the systems The Turnbull Guidance expands upon the Combined Code peak electricity requirements.
requirements for the Directors review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
RGGI Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a US regulation towards UAE carbon emission reduction in ten north eastern states.
RPI US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Retail Price Index.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in reaction to the highly publicised bankruptcies of Enron and WorldCom and is concerned SCR with strictly enforcing corporate governance and financial disclosure.
Selective catalytic reduction equipment to reduce the content of oxides of nitrogen in flue gases.
Watt Unit of power, which is the rate at which energy is delivered SO2 i. e. work is done at a rate of one watt when one ampere flows Sulphur dioxide.
through a potential difference of one volt.
The TIh ne te In rn te artn io an tia ol n Pa ol w Po ew r er wew bseitbe sh ita e s ha aw s a ew alt eh alo th f of detd ae ilt ead ila en d d an ud p-u tp o- -tdo a-td e ate info in rm foa rm tio an tio ab n o au bt o ut the tC he om Co pm an py aa nn y d an itd s its busi bn usi esn ses acst ac ivit tiiv es ities OuO r C uo r mp Comp any an y LeaLre n am rn om re oarb e o au bt oIu nt te In rn te artn io an tia ol n Pa ol w Po ew rs ea rss sa es ts s e ts and an gd log bla ol b re al arce hach Sha Sh reahrold ehold er ie nrfo in rm form ation ati on VisV it itsh it e td he e d die ca dtic ea d ts eid te sfit oe r fIo nr te In rn te artn io an tia ol n Pa ol w Po ew r er shar sh ear ho elh der older s and s and inv e insv te or stsors Env Ein ro vn iro mn em nte a nn t d a n so dc sio et cy iet y Get the full picture about International Power, the environment and corporate responsibility www.
com R Re eg giis ste tere red d O Of ffi fic ce e IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r p pllc c S Se en na at to or r H Ho ou us se e 8 85 5 Q Qu ue ee en n V Viic ct to or riia a S St tr re ee et t L Lo on nd do on n E EC C4 4V V 4 4D DP P R Re eg giis st te er re ed d iin n E En ng glla an nd d a an nd d W Wa alle es s N No o: : 2 23 36 66 69 96 63 3 P Pu ub blliis sh he ed d b by y IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r p pllc c w ww ww w.. iip pp pllc c. c. com om Designed Designed and and produced produced by by Roundel Roundel www.
com Photography: Photography: front front cover cover Frank Frank B Ba au ue er r, G Ge et tt ty y IIm ma ag ge es s:: B Bo oa ar rd d a an nd d s se en niio or r management management Orla Orla Deevy: Deevy: power power station station double double page page images images Jeff Jeff Jones Jones It It is is important important to to us us that that our our Annual Annual Report Report is is produced produced in in an an environmentally environmentally responsible responsible manner, manner, including including the the sourcing sourcing of of materials.
This This Annual Annual Report Report is is printed printed in in the the UK UK by by Royle Royle Print Print Ltd, Ltd, a a Carbon Carbon Neutral Neutral company, company, o on n R Re ev viiv five e P Pu ur re e W Wh hiit te e S Siillk k c co ov five er r a an nd d Revive Revive 75 75 Matt Matt text text pages, pages, recycled recycled papers papers with with Forest Forest Stewardship Stewardship Council Council certification, certification, using using  based inks inks and and water-based water-based sealants.
The The printer printer and and paper-manufacturing paper-manufacturing mill mill both both have have ISO ISO 1 1400 4001 1 accreditation accreditation for for environmental environmental management.
W Wh he en n y yo ou u h ha av five e ffiin niis sh he ed d w wiit th h t th hiis s iit te em m, please please dispose dispose of of it it in in your your recycled recycled paper paper waste.
Overall section 1 Summary Annual Report 2008 Electricity essential day and night Chairmans statement 2 2 Chairmans statement At International Power, we deliver a service that remains key to the normal functioning of every economy and every household.
Electricity is and will remain essential day and night.
I am pleased to report a strong performance from International Powers financial position remains the Group in 2008 where Profit From Operations strong, with good liquidity, committed corporate PFO rose 16% to 1,050 million and Earnings Per bank facilities and strong free cash flow generation.
Share EPS increased 20% to 32.4 pence from Our business is capital-intensive but we have a 27.1 pence in 2007. robust capital structure and one that, through the use of non-recourse debt, allows us to maintain 2008 again demonstrated the strength of our appropriate levels of debt in a relatively low risk portfolio.
PFO was up in all regions with particularly manner.
Through our broad geographic spread and strong growth in Australia and North America.
our regional knowledge, we continue to have access Good performance from the European assets, to good growth opportunities.
However, the value principally First Hydro, helped to offset the impact of financial prudence in the current economic of the unplanned outage at Rugeley.
Our plants in environment is clear and accordingly we will invest the Middle East and Asia operated well delivering our capital very carefully.
During 2008 we welcomed Ranald Spiers to We also achieved further growth across the the Board as the Executive Director responsible portfolio with the acquisition of 2,437MW net for the Middle East and Asia.
Ranald has led the of capacity in the US, Europe and Asia and the growth that has been achieved in our Middle East announcement of future greenfield capacity region over the last eight years, and his project additions in Europe of 555MW net.
Four out of development skills will be important as we seek the five of these new investment opportunities to grow our business further, particularly in Asia.
arose from our existing assets and these four all have long-term power offtake contracts.
These I am pleased to report that the Board has developments are particularly noteworthy as established a Health, Safety and Environment they were achieved against a backdrop of the HS&E Committee under the Chairmanship of credit crisis and a tight equipment supply market.
The Committee meets at least twice a year, at different The turmoil in global financial markets and power stations across the portfolio and, through its economic slowdown in major economies has, in advisory role, reinforces the fact that these matters one way or another, impacted the demand for many are as important to the Board as they are to our staff products and affected many businesses around the at power plants, development sites and offices world.
At International Power we deliver a service around the world.
that remains key to the normal functioning of every economy and every household.
Electricity is and will Staff commitment to our in-house behavioural remain essential day and night.
The need for our safety programme, known as Fresh Eyes, along service, together with our international footprint, with improved management of health and safety diversified fuel base and the balance of contract issues, particularly during maintenance outages types long-term and short-term, across developed at our plants, delivered a further 25% reduction and developing markets, offers good security for in the Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR.
our business and its future in these uncertain times.
All references to PFO and EPS in the Chairmans statement are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Chairmans statement 3 3 On the environmental front we track very carefully We were able to deliver growth in earnings and proposed legislation which targets reduced generating capacity around the world in 2008, Carbon Dioxide CO emissions in our markets.
The dedication displayed 2 We support these initiatives in principle, and we are by our teams across the business was a key factor actively involved in dialogue with governments and in our success, which would not have been possible regulators to ensure a balanced outcome for our without their commitment.
On behalf of the Board, business.
We will apply the experience gained from I would like to thank all our staff for the vital role operating within the European Union Emissions that they play in the growth of our Company.
Trading Scheme EUETS to any new scheme in our Looking forward to 2009, we have a well established other markets, and will invest in renewables and portfolio of long-term contracted assets which other economically viable opportunities aimed continues to perform well.
We are also well positioned at reducing carbon emissions from our plants.
in our key merchant markets, although forward Aside from managing carbon emissions, the pricing in the UK and the US does not reflect installation of Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD the attractive long-term market fundamentals.
equipment at Rugeley in the UK, and at our Pego In the absence of a significant improvement in plant in Portugal, where Selective Catalytic pricing in these two markets, it is likely that Group Reduction SCR technology has also been fitted, profitability in 2009 will be lower than in 2008. will make a significant contribution to reducing However, our assets are well placed to capture atmospheric emissions.
value, from both market recovery and short-term pricing volatility.
In August last year, the Board announced an interim dividend of 3.56 pence per share 35% of the The financial position of the Group remains strong, previous years full-year dividend.
The Board is with good corporate liquidity and no material proposing a final dividend of 8.59 pence per share refinancings in 2009.
We expect to continue for the year which, including the interim dividend, to deliver strong free cash flow in 2009. will take the total for 2008 to 12.15 pence per share.
This represents an increase of 20% on 2007 and an EPS pay-out ratio of 37.5%.
Sir Neville Simms Chairman Chief Executive Officers statement 4 4 Chief Executive Officers statement We have a strong balance sheet with good free cash flow and liquidity, and our international spread across North America, Europe, the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be a major strength.
2008 was certainly an unprecedented year across Regional reviews all markets, as the severity of the credit and banking The regional reviews, on pages 12 to 14, give crisis, and its dramatic impact on the global you an in-depth analysis of the business, but let me economy, really started to become apparent.
give you an overview of some of the highlights and Clearly, no sector or company is immune from these key issues.
wider market conditions, but electricity remains a In North America, our Profit From Operations domestic, industrial, and commercial necessity.
Our PFO increased, principally through an improved geographic spread across North America, Europe, performance from our gas and coal-fired plants in the Middle East, Australia and Asia continues to be Texas.
Hays benefited from a higher achieved spark a major strength, ensuring no over-concentration spread and load factor, as a result of higher demand of risk in any one market and allowing us to focus our and transmission constraints while Coleto Creek growth initiatives where we see the most potential.
operated at a significantly higher load factor of 90% In these market conditions, strong free cash flow compared to 75% in 2007.
We also successfully generation, good liquidity, and an absence of major concluded the acquisition of four peaking plants near-term refinancings are all very good indicators in the north eastern and mid western US markets of financial position, and I am pleased to report that PJM and MISO regions that we have targeted for we score well on all these criteria.
These are high quality, modern, and free cash flow after maintenance capital efficient plants which have been quickly integrated expenditure, interest, and tax of 513 million in into our US portfolio.
Forward power prices have 2008, retained good liquidity at the corporate reduced principally on the back of lower oil and centre, have minimal project refinancings in 2009, gas prices, and on expectations of lower demand and the vast majority of our debt is non-recourse growth.
Forward margins in the power market do to the parent company.
not yet reflect the strong fundamentals across our major US merchant markets, and for this reason, we are relatively lightly forward contracted for 2009.
Our contracted assets in the region continue to perform well.
Our European portfolio performed well during 2008, particularly in the UK where our gas-fired and pumped storage assets delivered excellent results, which helped to offset the extended outage at our Rugeley coal-fired plant.
The fitting of Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD at Rugeley will continue into 2009, and will ensure a longer life for this important asset.
Overall, our UK portfolio is very well positioned to benefit from the attractive fundamentals of this market, and we have forward contracted output from selected plants for 2009 where we have seen particular value.
We acquired a further 40% of the Turbogs 1,008MW Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT plant in Portugal during the year, and this plant continued to perform well, contributing to a strong performance from our long-term contracted assets across the region.
Similarly, our European wind portfolio of 1,179MW operated well, although wind levels and resulting load factors were lower than long-term averages.
Chief Executive Officers statement 5 5 At ISAB, where there was a major incident in Delivering maximum value October, one of the two units returned to service Operational excellence is core to our ability to in mid December, with the second one expected deliver maximum value, and although we had some to be back online in the middle of 2010.
The Czech unplanned outages in 2008 Rugeley and ISAB in Republic power and district heating businesses particular we always strive to learn the maximum had another excellent year, improving on a very possible from these events to ensure that we strong 2007 performance.
On the growth front, maintain the highest standards of plant safety construction of the 830MW Elecgas CCGT plant and operations.
We have a number of initiatives in Portugal is making good progress and we underway to constantly drive improved operational were very pleased to announce the development performance across the portfolio.
and successful financing of the 420MW T-Power Our approach to environmental management project in Belgium, in challenging financial market has three major building blocks improved conditions, demonstrating the availability of environmental performance at our existing assets, non-recourse finance for high quality projects.
the building of high efficiency plants where we The Middle East is a good example of a market develop greenfield growth opportunities, and the that continues to grow strongly despite the wider expansion of our significant renewables portfolio.
The market is driven by strong Examples include the installation of FGD equipment fundamentals, even in a lower oil price environment, in the UK and Portugal, the development of lower and we continue to see a range of near and emission technology for brown coal generation in longer-term growth opportunities that reflect the Australia, incorporation of high efficiency turbines expansion and diversification of the economies in in our new-build projects in the Middle East, which we operate.
Our existing portfolio continues Portugal, and Belgium, and the further to operate well with consistently high availability development of our European onshore wind factors.
We have established a strong presence portfolio.
All these initiatives make very sound in this important market and we are focused on environmental and commercial sense.
growing and adding value for the long-term, The growth and development of our business with the construction of the Fujairah F2 plant would not be possible without a committed team 2,000MW and 130MIGD in the UAE on schedule.
of employees, and I am always impressed by the Australia had a much improved performance in enthusiasm displayed by our teams around the 2008, driven by better overall plant availability world.
I would like to thank all our employees and by improved achieved market prices.
The for their contribution during 2008. major issue for the power sector in Australia is As outlined in the Chairmans statement, it is the planned introduction of a Carbon Pollution likely that Group profitability in 2009 will be lower Reduction Scheme, in this market where coal than in 2008.
However our assets are well placed a relatively high emitter of carbon dioxide to capture value, from both market recovery represents the dominant share some 85% of total and short-term pricing volatility.
Our focus is on power generation.
A government White Paper was maintaining a strong balance sheet with good free published in December, followed by draft legislation cash flow and liquidity, together with achieving the in March 2009, and this provided some insight into highest operational standards across our portfolio.
the proposed scheme, but many more details need Growth remains on our agenda, but we will to be clarified before the full impact on our portfolio continue to use our capital very selectively and can be properly evaluated.
The scheme is still carefully in light of the constrained capital markets.
planned for implementation in mid 2010, and the Our regional spread and market knowledge are key draft terms include assistance for brown coal-fired advantages, and enable us to allocate capital where generation which is the cornerstone of our we see the best returns.
Our Asian portfolio comprises long-term contracted assets, where high plant availability is the key driver of value.
We continue to deliver high operational standards, and therefore profitability has been consistently good.
Demand for power Philip Cox continues to be strong, and is reflected in the Chief Executive Officer growth opportunities across the region, and in Indonesia in particular.
The planned expansion of our plant at Paiton in Indonesia, where we are seeking to add a further 815MW by 2012, is an excellent example of this growth.
Payments from our government owned offtaker in Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority were delayed in 2008, as its cash flow was negatively impacted by the high price of oil.
Various measures, including International Monetary Fund IMF assistance, give us confidence that this issue will be satisfactorily resolved.
We continue to look carefully at selected new markets in this region, with Vietnam a clear focus, given its high growth rate and its desire to attract inward investment in the power sector.
Our portfolio 6 6 Our portfolio The following tables set out details in relation to our operating plants, assets under construction and other significant business interests as at 10 March 2009.
Location Fuel type Gross IPR Net Gross Net capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity power % power heat MWth heat MWth MW MW desal MIGD desal MIGD steam m lbs hr steam m lbs hr Assets in operation North America Hartwell Georgia Gas OCGT 318 50 159 Calumet Illinois Gas OCGT 303 100 303 Bellingham Massachusetts Gas CCGT 539 100 539 Blackstone Massachusetts Gas CCGT 488 100 488 Milford Massachusetts Gas CCGT 160 100 160 Troy Ohio Gas oil OCGT 616 100 616 Armstrong Pennsylvania Gas oil OCGT 625 100 625 Coleto Creek Texas Coal 667 100 667 Hays Texas Gas CCGT 913 100 913 Midlothian Texas Gas CCGT 1,423 100 1,423 Oyster Creek Texas Gas Cogen CCGT 440 50 220 100MWth 50MWth Pleasants West Virginia Gas oil OCGT 313 100 313 EcoElctrica Puerto Rico LNG CCGT 548 35 192 North America total in operation 7,353 6,618 Europe 1 International Power Opatovice Czech Republic Coal gas Cogen 585 100 585 2,040MWth 2,040MWth IPR European Wind Portfolio Germany, Italy, Wind 1,179 100 1,179 France, Netherlands ISAB Italy Gas IGCC 562 34 193 Tejo Energia Pego Portugal Coal 628 50 314 Turbogs Portugal Gas CCGT 1,008 100 1,008 Spanish Hydro Spain Hydro solar 88 67 58 Uni-Mar Marmara Turkey Gas CCGT 488 33 162 Deeside UK Gas CCGT 500 75 375 Derwent UK Gas CCGT 214 23 49 First Hydro UK Pumped storage 2,088 75 1,566 Indian Queens UK Oil OCGT 140 75 105 Rugeley UK Coal 50MW of OCGT 1,050 75 788 Saltend UK Gas CCGT Cogen 1,200 75 900 0.30m lbs hr 0.23m lbs hr Europe total in operation 9,730 7,282 Middle East Hidd Bahrain Gas CCGT desalination 1,006 40 402 90MIGD 36MIGD Al Kamil Oman Gas OCGT 276 65 180 Ras Laffan B Qatar Gas CCGT desalination 1,055 40 422 60MIGD 24MIGD Tihama Saudi Arabia Gas Cogen 1,076 60 646 4.5m lbs hr 2.7m lbs hr Shuweihat S1 UAE Gas CCGT desalination 1,572 20 314 100MIGD 20MIGD Umm Al Nar UAE Gas CCGT desalination 2,450 20 490 143MIGD 29MIGD Middle East total in operation 7,435 2,454 Our portfolio 7 7 Location Fuel type Gross IPR Net Gross Net capacity ownership capacity capacity capacity power % power heat MWth heat MWth MW MW desal MIGD desal MIGD steam m lbs hr steam m lbs hr Assets in operation Australia Canunda South Australia Wind 46 100 46 Pelican Point South Australia Gas CCGT 487 100 487 Synergen South Australia Gas distillate 371 100 371 Hazelwood Victoria Coal 1,675 92 1,541 Loy Yang B Victoria Coal 1,026 70 718 Kwinana Western Australia Gas CCGT 118 49 58 Australia total in operation 3,723 3,221 Asia 2 Paiton Indonesia Coal 1,365 31 423 HUBCO Pakistan Oil 1,290 17 219 KAPCO Pakistan Gas oil CCGT 1,600 36 576 Uch Pakistan Gas oil CCGT 572 71 406 3 3 TNP Pluak Daeng Thailand Gas Cogen 143 100 143 7.7MWth 7.7MWth Asia total in operation 4,970 1,767 Total in operation around the world 33,211 21,342 Assets under construction IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy Wind 30 75 23 Elecgas Portugal Gas CCGT 830 50 415 T-Power Belgium Gas CCGT 420 33 140 Fujairah F2 UAE Gas CCGT desalination 2,000 20 400 130MIGD 26MIGD Total under construction around the world 3,280 978 Region IPR Description ownership % Other businesses Opus Energy UK 30 Independent supplier of electricity to small and medium-sized businesses Simply Energy Victoria & South Australia 100 Electricity and gas retailer SEA Gas pipeline Victoria & South Australia 33 687 km gas pipeline from Victoria to South Australia Notes: Gross MWs are defined as maximum electrical output that can be produced at reference site conditions.
1 Gross capacity amount shown for International Power Opatovice represents the actual net interest owned directly or indirectly by International Power Opatovice.
2 In addition to the above holding, in June 2007, International Power also acquired the rights to additional returns from Paiton equivalent to a further 9.2% of earnings and cash distributions.
Strategy and Group overviewview 8 8 Strategy and Group overview International Power is a leading independent power generation company with interests in 33,211MW gross of power generating capacity, located in 21 countries across five core regions North America, Europe, Middle East, Australia and Asia.
Our strategy is to deliver growth in Portfolio by geography shareholder value through power generation, Asia 8% ensuring a balanced international portfolio Europe 34% in terms of markets, fuel, contract type and Middle East 12% technology.
We create value by the efficient operation, financing, and trading of output Australia 15% from our power generation fleet, whilst maintaining the highest levels of safety and environmental performance.
We exercise North America 31% rigorous financial control in all our investment decisions, and invest in the development of our people for the long-term.
Portfolio by fuel type A portfolio approach Hydro 0.5% Wind 6% We manage our business through a portfolio Oil 3% management approach, which involves maintaining Pumped storage 7% a balance in the portfolio in terms of geographical spread, fuel diversity, technology and contract type.
This approach gives us access to multiple Coal 23.5% Gas 60% opportunities to create value whilst mitigating the risks associated with over exposure to any particular market, fuel, technology or contract type.
Our geographic spread gives us access to growth opportunities whilst reducing the potential impact, Portfolio by contract type on the overall business, of adverse performance in any particular market.
The portfolio approach also Wind 6% extends through to our operational capabilities.
Long-term Pumped storage 7% We are able to operate a range of power plant contracted 34% technologies, including thermal, hydro, pumped Short-term storage and renewables.
These technologies contracted 24% produce electricity using different fuel types that include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such as wind, water and solar.
This multi-technology Uncontracted 29% expertise allows us to capture opportunities that are best suited to the market in question.
Rolling one-year average As electricity is critical for any economy, Note: All charts presented based on net MW, excluding assets under construction, governments carefully decide whether or not as at 10 March 2009. they wish to liberalise this key sector.
Several governments have retained full control of the TNP Pluak Daeng, Thailand sector while others have fully liberalised both the production and supply of electricity.
The skills required for operating in liberalised merchant or non-liberalised contracted markets are very different and we have both.
Oyster Creek, US Strategy and Group overview 9 9 Our growth 21.3 18.8 18.5 15.9 15.3 Canunda, Australia 10.5 10.6 8.9 8.3 Asia Australia Middle East Europe North America 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Portfolio growth Note: Chart presented based on net MW, excluding Net GW assets under construction, as at 31 December.
Growth in 2008 Project Location MW Acquisition Contract type net greenfield Uch additional % Pakistan 177 Acquisition PPA to 2023 Elecgas Portugal 415 Greenfield under 25-year tolling agreement construction Portfolio of peaking plants North America 1,857 Acquisition Merchant Turbogs additional % Portugal 403 Acquisition PPA to 2024 1 IPR European Wind Portfolio Italy Germany 104 Greenfield under Various France construction T-Power Belgium 140 Greenfield under 15-year tolling agreement construction 1 81MW in operation and 23MW under construction.
The , contracted markets Maximising the value of our existing portfolio typically offer opportunities to sell power to Our specific strategies for value enhancement in government bodies via long-term Power Purchase each country and for each individual plant are Agreements PPAs that offer stable returns.
Assets tailored to local requirements, but generally we in the merchant markets are subject to the forces of seek to achieve the following: supply and demand, and these markets are generally Optimise the operations of our power plants more volatile.
Both these markets offer attractive We optimise the operation of our power plants risk reward environments for investments.
through several means including: managing all of our sites to high standards of safety and International Power maintains a balanced presence operating performance: managing our business in both types of markets, providing the business on a portfolio basis: closely co-ordinating plant with a stable platform of long-term contracted operations with trading to maximise the value earnings and cash flow, overlaid by merchant of our output: standardising management generation which offers greater potential for reporting for all investments: and investing in superior returns when market conditions are improved plant efficiency.
We also ensure that lessons learnt in any particular market for example, experience Maximise the return from our portfolio of the environmental legislation in Europe relating We optimise operations as described above and to Carbon Dioxide CO2 emissions trading are we leverage our investments, particularly by using shared across the business.
non-recourse finance at the project company level.
We sell businesses if this generates a higher rate of return.
Our approach to risk and risk managementview 10 10 Our approach to risk and risk management International Powers principal activities are the The Risk Committee has responsibility, on behalf development, acquisition and operation of power of the Board, for ensuring: generation plants together with closely related the adequacy of systems for identifying activities, such as desalination, retail and district and assessing significant risks heating.
These principal activities are supported by that appropriate control systems and other our network of local, regional and corporate offices mitigating processes are in place which carry out activities such as trading, financial management and treasury operations.
All of these that residual exposures are consistent with activities have inherent risks.
the Groups strategy and objectives Our general approach to risk management is set During the business planning process, each significant out below.
This is followed by a description of the business unit and functional group identifies and principal risks and exposures faced by the business.
assesses the key risks associated with the achievement of its principal business objectives and their potential Risk management framework impact.
During the year, significant changes in the risk International Power owns, or has equity interests in, profile are highlighted through the business over 45 plants and some closely linked businesses performance reporting process.
Our portfolio contains all major technologies and fuel types with the Each year, the business carries out a Group-wide, exception of nuclear power.
This is based on the outcome of the of the portfolio entered service less than 15 years business planning exercise, updated as necessary ago.
Geographically the portfolio is diverse, having to take account of post business plan events.
The a presence in developed and developing countries assessments are synthesised into a risk report, that with a variety of cultural, political and legal systems.
identifies all the principal risks, which is reviewed by Our risk management philosophy is designed the Risk Committee.
Where risks are considered to deal with the diverse set of risks faced by our to exceed the Groups risk appetite, the Risk business.
To reflect the profile of our business Committee directs which actions are to be taken.
we have developed a system that contains both The risk report is reviewed by the full Board.
bottom-up and top-down elements to support the Schematically the annual risk report system identification, reporting and management of risks.
functions as follows: Corporate level Review by full Board Policy, delegations and exposure limits are set at the corporate level, with the Board of Directors taking ultimate responsibility.
Review by Risk Acceptable business practices and engineering Committee and operational standards are set centrally.
Actions Synthesis by risk report Regional businesses working group Market and trading risks are managed regionally within the framework set at the corporate level.
Political risks are also Risk assessment by business managed regionally with support from the units and functions corporate centre.
In order to compare risks across the Group on Business units a systematic basis, we segment our activities as Risk assessments and mitigation action plans shown below.
In reality, certain risk exposures are mainly originated in business units.
Health, interact and other exposures apply to more than safety and environmental HS&E compliance one risk area for example, regulatory risk applies activities are also managed locally, within to all of our activities.
Such cross-segment risks a central policy framework.
Local business are assessed in each of the areas in which they occur.
managers are accountable for managing the risks within their areas of responsibility.
This principle also applies to the managers of our Financial risks regional and corporate functions.
Market and trading risks There is a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Fuel supply risks Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer Country and political risks CFO and comprises Executive Directors and senior managers.
Construction and operational risks Health, safety and environmental risks Staffing and human resources risks Our approach to risk and risk management 11 11 Principal risks and exposures Risk Impacts Mitigating factors financial volatility application of Group policies and procedures Adverse conditions in setting limits on trading counterparty our electricity sales or reduction in profitability exposures and maintenance of financial fuel purchase markets and cash flow headroom at the corporate level and or counterparty potential impact on loan covenants default risk structuring of project companies as standalone businesses and use of non-recourse project finance to limit Group impact reduction in financial resources maintenance of financial headroom at the Price volatility or available for growth corporate level changes in market conditions result in reduced ability to forward trading through investment grade financial exceptional trading sell output institutions credit support for specific projects additional support is requirements provided, for example Mitsui provides a credit support facility for International Power Mitsui IPM trading in the UK reduction in profitability and a rolling forward contracting programme Market spreads outturn cash flow typically aims to lock in margins below expectation potential impact on loan covenants 34% of our net capacity has long-term Eco Elctrica, Puerto Rico contractual arrangements shielding our annual profitability from significant volatility reduced availability and increased maintenance of strong liquidity Capital market access cost of non-recourse project high credibility and experience in delivering and corporate financing bankable solutions reduced availability and increased strong banking relationships with major cost for refinancings project financing banks worldwide maintenance of stringent project evaluation criteria reduction in profitability and structured approach to the management Unplanned availability cash flow of engineering risk losses potential impact on loan covenants appropriate budgeted spend on plant maintenance strong corporate and asset Operations and Engineering teams Challenging delays and increases in the price of long-standing relationships with all major Engineering, greenfield development impacts EPC contractors Hidd, Bahrain Procurement and growth rate ongoing review of contracting strategies Construction EPC to meet changing market conditions market conditions new entrant pricing should reflect the cost of building new plant reduction in profitability and plant upgrades and carbon trading processes Changes in cash flow to meet new environmental legislation in our environmental developed markets regulatory regimes potential impact on loan covenants limit our ability to new-build plant uses high efficiency turbines increased potential capital profitably operate our with proven environmental technology expenditure to ensure longer asset fossil fuel plants lives under tighter legislation approximately 6% of net operating capacity made up of wind generation increased trading risk senior representation in industry groups and ongoing advocacy Regional reviews 12 Regional reviews Whilst long-term fundamentals in Texas and Results North America New England remain attractive, both markets Profit From Operations PFO in North America face near-term challenges.
Since the second half was up at 177 million, from 136 million last year, of 2008, power prices in both markets have seen primarily due to much improved contributions a material decline, primarily driven by a significant from the Hays and Coleto Creek plants in Texas.
reduction in gas prices, expectations that demand Our contracted assets, EcoElctrica, Hartwell and growth will slow on the back of the poor economic Oyster Creek, all performed well and delivered outlook, and reduced trading liquidity.
no significant improvement in forward prices, PFO Hays, in south Texas, benefited from a significantly in the current year from these markets would be higher achieved spark spread, which increased from lower than that achieved in 2008.
We have forward $10 MWh in 2007 to $21 MWh in 2008, as a result contracted 45% of our expected merchant of higher demand and transmission constraints, Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT output particularly during the second quarter of the in Texas and 30% in New England for 2009. year.
The plant continued to deliver a strong performance in the second half of the year reflecting Results Europe a high zonal premium, driven by supply constraints.
PFO in Europe increased to 581 million in 2008 The load factor increased to 65%, from 45% in 2007: 574 million.
At Midlothian, in north Texas, the load factor performed particularly well.
The region also fell from 55% to 40%, at a slightly reduced spark benefited from a first time full-year contribution spread of $13 MWh 2007: $14 MWh, due to from the Maestrale wind farm portfolio and a a relatively cool summer and additional supply strong performance at International Power from wind generators.
Opatovice, in the Czech Republic.
Together these Troy, US Coleto Creek achieved a dark spread of $30 MWh factors helped offset the impact of the extended at a significantly higher load factor of 90% compared outage at Rugeley.
Our contracted assets in Iberia to 75% in 2007, when the plant had a two-month and Turkey also delivered good financial and planned outage to install dust emission control operational performance.
The output at Coleto Creek is heavily In 2008, the UK power market was impacted by forward contracted 75% for 2009. high levels of plant unavailability which was driven In New England, the average achieved spark spread by unplanned plant outages at nuclear plants and by for Blackstone and Bellingham increased from extended outages at coal-fired power stations that $16 MWh to $19 MWh but at a reduced load factor were undergoing Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD of 45% 2007: 60%, mainly due to lower running installation.
These factors, together with a in the first quarter, and cooler weather during the particularly high gas price environment in the summer.
Earnings in New England continue to middle of 2008, resulted in a tight market with be underpinned by capacity payments under the increased prices which benefited our plants, Forward Capacity Market FCM where prices have particularly First Hydro and Deeside.
been determined through to May 2012.
In 2008, First Hydro performed very strongly, benefiting capacity payments accounted for some 50% of from volatile prices and increased spreads in the PFO at Blackstone and Bellingham.
Deeside was able to benefit International Power Opatovice, Czech Republic The New England states are now participating from its largely uncontracted position, which in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI, enabled it to capture higher short-term spreads at a cap and trade Carbon Dioxide CO a higher load factor.
Saltend continued to operate reduction 2 at a high load factor benefiting from its lower cost programme which commenced in January 2009. of gas, supplied under an indexed gas contract The first two CO2 auctions, held in September 2008 which expires in 2015. and December 2008, cleared at $3.07 ton and $3.38 ton of CO2 respectively.
Rugeley had a major extended outage during 2008 and the units returned to service in late September In July 2008, we successfully completed the and early October.
acquisition of the 1,857MW portfolio of four modern peaking generation facilities, located in The FGD equipment installation at Rugeley has Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland PJM and experienced a further delay and is now anticipated Midwest Independent System Operator MISO to be completed in the second quarter of 2009. power pools, for a total consideration of Primarily due to this delay, we now expect Rugeley $864 million 436 million.
In PJM, where three to achieve a lower than previously forecast spread in of the plants are located, the capacity price has 2009.
Rugeley has been able to maintain generation been established through to May 2012 under levels through the use of ultra-low sulphur coal, the Reliability Pricing Mechanism, with the next despite the delay, but this alternative coal is more capacity auction for the period June 2012 to expensive than Rugeleys normal intake and has May 2013 planned for May 2009.
The 616MW resulted in some re-scheduling of original deliveries peaking plant located in MISO has a capacity to 2010.
In addition, part of Rugeleys output had tolling agreement until the end of 2012.
We been forward sold via gas hedges a proxy for expect this acquisition to provide an attractive power sales to facilitate sales during periods where return on investment, largely underpinned by liquidity in the forward power market was low.
These gas hedges have been adversely impacted by the gradual decline in 2009 market spark spreads.
All references to PFO in the regional reviews are before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Regional reviews 13 As a result we now expect Rugeley to achieve a and an additional 27% shareholding in the clean spread of 15 MWh, down from 18 MWh, associated operations and maintenance company and a pre-carbon spread of 20 MWh at a load Portugen, for a total cash consideration of factor of 75% in 2009.
For 2010, which will benefit E127 million 101 million.
International Power from the re-scheduled coal, we expect a clean now owns 100% of Turbogs and Portugen.
spread of 21 MWh and a pre-carbon spread In December 2008, the T-Power project in Belgium of 27 MWh.
was successfully financed at attractive terms.
The Looking forward, we expect relatively less tension project, located at Tessenderlo in eastern Belgium, in the supply demand position in the UK in 2009, is co-owned by International Power, Siemens as plants previously on outage return to service and Project Ventures and Tessenderlo Chemie, and will new capacity is brought online.
For 2009 we have be constructed by Siemens under a full turnkey forward contracted 90% of our expected output Engineering, Procurement and Construction EPC at Rugeley, 90% at Saltend, and 30% at Deeside.
Once operational in 2011, the output from T-Power will be sold to Essent Trading International In the Czech Republic, PFO increased from 2007 S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Essent NV, as the business benefited from rising power prices.
the largest energy supplier in the Netherlands During 2008, Czech power prices continued to under a 15-year tolling agreement with a five-year follow German prices which were driven up by extension option.
Natural gas will be supplied strong prices for coal, oil and gas.
In addition, by Essent under the tolling agreement.
reported profits benefited from a significant strengthening of the Czech koruna.
Results Middle East At ISAB in Italy, PFO in 2008 benefited from a rise In the Middle East, PFO was 69 million in 2008 First Hydro, UK in oil prices.
This strong performance helped to 2007: 68 million.
The region benefited from the offset the impact of the major incident in October.
completion of the Ras Laffan B project in Qatar and Both units at ISAB were offline until 15 December, additional desalination capacity at Hidd in Bahrain.
when one unit was returned to service.
Work on However, profit in 2007 included a development the second unit is underway and it is expected to fee for the Fujairah F2 project.
be back online in the middle of 2010.
Discussions Construction at Ras Laffan B was completed in with insurance providers are continuing, and we June 2008 with the final 135MW and 15MIGD being expect the impact of this outage to be largely finished ahead of schedule.
The plant now has an covered by business interruption insurance.
overall capacity of 1,055MW and 60MIGD, and The Maestrale wind farm portfolio delivered a first is operating under the first full-year of its 25-year time full-year contribution, following its acquisition Power and Water Purchase Agreement PWPA.
Operational availability In Bahrain, the final phase 48MIGD of the of the portfolio has been good, however wind levels desalination extension at Hidd achieved commercial and resulting load factors in 2008 were lower than operation in May.
The plant is now fully operational long-term averages.
In November, the Italian with a capacity of 1,006MW and 90MIGD.
government announced a new Decree which set a price of E98 MWh for the sale of Green Certificates In the UAE, the construction programme for the from 2007 and 2008, which are a significant Fujairah F2 project 2,000MW, 130MIGD is well Shuweihat S1, UAE source of income for wind farms in Italy, underway.
Activities across the whole site have demonstrating the governments commitment progressed well during the year: a large number of to ensuring an attractive economic environment the underground foundations and other civil works for renewable generation.
have been completed and the first gas turbine has arrived on site.
We have continued to build on our European wind portfolio with a further 81MW coming online.
In addition, construction is underway on the new 30MW PEG project in Italy, in which International Power has a 75% share, and this is expected to be completed in 2009. International Powers European wind portfolio now comprises 1,179MW of operational capacity.
In Portugal both our plants, Pego and Turbogs, continue to operate well.
Construction of FGD and Selective Catalytic Reduction SCR equipment at Pego has now been completed.
The Elecgas 830MW gross CCGT project, which is located adjacent to Pego, reached financial close in March 2008 and is on track to become operational in 2011.
In addition, we completed the acquisition of an additional 40% shareholding in Turbogs, the 1,008MW gas-fired plant located in Portugal, Regional reviews 14 Results Asia Results Australia PFO in Asia increased from 96 million in 2007 PFO increased significantly to 168 million to 104 million, primarily as a result of a strong from 82 million in 2007, principally reflecting performance from Paiton and an increased significantly improved contributions from contribution from Uch, where an additional 31% Hazelwood and Loy Yang B.
The region also stake was acquired in March 2008.
These factors benefited from a strong performance at Synergen, more than offset the sale of Malakoff in May 2007. which captured high spot prices during the summer All our contracted assets in the region continue months.
The rest of the portfolio performed well to deliver good operational performance and our and delivered a good financial performance.
plants in Indonesia and Thailand have maintained Hazelwood, in Victoria, achieved a significantly strong payment records.
higher average price of A$43 MWh 2007: In Pakistan, payments from the state-owned A$32 MWh, at a slightly lower load factor of 75%.
customer, the Water and Power Development A strong forward contracted position and good Authority WAPDA, were delayed in 2008. operational performance in the second half of the year helped deliver these results.
For 2009 However, our plants are continuing to receive we have forward contracted 80% of the expected payments for the majority of current output output at Hazelwood.
and have also been receiving interest on overdue amounts.
Our share of the overdue receivable, During the first two months of 2009, Victoria and in March 2009, was US$149 million 108 million.
South Australia experienced a major heat wave, There are a number of initiatives currently causing the most severe bush fires in Victoria in underway to resolve the cash flow issue in Pakistan, recorded history and all-time record levels of including an International Monetary Fund IMF demand and price volatility in the electricity market.
A key condition of The transmission network was under significant the IMF loan is that the government of Pakistan strain, and there were two instances of load has to implement a plan to clear the overdue shedding.
Good levels of availability across our receivables in the energy sector.
We remain portfolio ensured the impact of these events confident of a satisfactory outcome.
was financially neutral on our business.
In August, PT Paiton Energy, the project company Details of the proposed emissions trading scheme in which International Power has a 40.5% interest, due to start from July 2010 were announced signed a 30-year Power Purchase Agreement PPA in a White Paper in mid December.
The current with PT PLN, the Indonesian state utility, for the proposals are for a minimum 5% reduction in CO 2 proposed 815MW coal-fired Paiton 3 plant in emissions against 2000 levels by 2020, with the Indonesia.
The project is covered by a fixed-price potential for this target to rise to 15% pending Loy Yang B, Australia contract and the main equipment will be supplied by the UN meeting in Copenhagen, planned to be held Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd.
The project will be at the end of 2009.
Under the proposals, there is located within the existing Paiton complex and is currently a period of five years where, in effect, no expected to be fully operational by the end of 2012. charge will be applied for a portion of emissions Financial close is now expected in the second from coal-fired power plants, and our Hazelwood quarter of 2009. and Loy Yang B assets would be eligible for this In March, International Power completed the relief.
The details of the proposals are yet to be acquisition of an additional 31% shareholding in Uch, finalised, with the government aiming to introduce the 572MW gas-fired plant located in Pakistan.
Total the legislation into Parliament in May 2009.
Draft consideration was US$93 million 47 million.
The legislation was released in March 2009.
Overall, it is too early to draw firm conclusions at this stage.
acquisition, from affiliates of Tenaska Holdings L Corp, takes International Powers total holding in Uch to 71%.
The ownership percentage includes interests held via IPM Eagle LLP, a 70 30 partnership between International Power and Mitsui.
International Powers 40.5% interest in PT Paiton Energy also includes a 9.2% economic interest.
Paiton, Indonesia Corporate responsibility 15 Corporate responsibility Electricity is a unique and vital commodity that has the power to enhance quality of life.
As an international company we must demonstrate responsible and ethical working practices.
Electricity is a unique and vital commodity that Human rights and Code of Business Conduct has the power to enhance quality of life.
As an We endorse the United Nations Universal international company we must demonstrate Declaration on Human Rights.
This is supported by responsible and ethical working practices.
For our own Code of Business Conduct the Code and a global wholesale generating company like human resources policies.
We apply human rights International Power, this equates to following fair principles rigorously for our own employees, and and ethical principles to govern the way we manage we seek to influence our partners, contractors and and conduct our business.
It means working in suppliers to apply the same standards.
a smart and integrated way by ensuring our The Code, which applies to all International Power key competencies, technical expertise and best employees, includes clauses on complying with our practices are properly implemented over a widely ethical, environment and health and safety policies.
dispersed and diverse range of assets to produce It also covers competitive practices, conduct in the power, water and process heat safely and cleanly.
It also means that corporate responsibility CR forms an integral part of our business decision Progress in corporate responsibility process and contributes to our global Environment and climate change competitiveness and reputation.
As a global power company, we recognise the Our strategy is to generate energy in an efficient importance of developing and implementing way, to develop low carbon technology and expand a low carbon strategy over both the medium our renewables portfolio.
To track our performance and long-term.
in implementing this strategy we measure the It is incumbent on us to operate our business in a carbon intensity of each unit of electricity generated manner which is sustainable.
This means we need across our portfolio.
The average carbon intensity to both retain our competitiveness today and ensure of International Powers global portfolio has fallen we are taking steps now, so that our business is well considerably in recent years from 0.736 kg kWh positioned for the future.
In this regard, the control in 2005 to 0.636 kg kWh in 2008.
We use net and limitation of CO emissions is a critical issue and 2 reporting for Carbon Dioxide CO, which 2 one which has a high priority within our business.
reflects our ownership interest in a power plant, and therefore includes the net MW of joint ventures Generating electricity efficiently and associates.
We use high efficiency turbines with proven environmental technology at our newly built plants.
Health, safety and environmental management For example, at Fujairah F2 in Abu Dhabi, we are The global Health, Safety and Environment HS&E constructing a new 2,000MW, 130MIGD power management committee reviews the overall and desalination plant.
The desalination process performance of businesses across the Group and is able to make use of waste heat from the power defines global environmental standards and targets.
station and the combined process is very efficient.
The global management committee is supported When taking into account the power it produces by regional HS&E management committees, and the heat generated for the desalination process, which include representation from each plant.
this process has a very high thermal efficiency of In 2008, we strengthened our CR governance by over 65%.
establishing a new Board-level HS&E Committee We are reviewing the thermal efficiency at our to oversee HS&E policy and the performance of the power stations and implementing improvement HS&E management committee.
These range from steam turbine reports as well as any major incidents and issues upgrades to reducing works power and improving of public concern.
It meets at least twice a year at combustion conditions.
For example, in Australia different power stations, where the Committee at the Kwinana plant, we have invested in new also discusses HS&E issues with the plant manager In 2008 we continued to expand technology to increase the efficiency of the plant our renewables portfolio and relevant on-site staff.
by cooling the air drawn into the power station.
Similar technology has also been installed at our Bellingham plant in the US.
Corporate responsibility 16 Investing in low carbon fossil fuel generation Health and safety In 2008, we continued to invest in the development We are committed to the best possible health and of low carbon initiatives, including carbon capture safety performance.
2008 was the third successive and storage.
Hazelwood, in Australia, burns brown year in which the Accident Frequency Rate AFR coal which is low in Oxides of Sulphur SOx was reduced.
The majority of the reported incidents emissions, but produces higher CO emissions were minor slips, trips, falls, or manual handling 2 due to its high moisture content.
As a result, injuries, with the individual returning to work within there are a number of initiatives underway at a day or two.
A major review of the global safety Hazelwood aimed at reducing the plants CO management system was carried out involving 2 We have invested in our first solar power emissions.
In association with the Co-operative external benchmarking to ensure the best possible project at Juneda PV in Spain Research Centre for Greenhouse Gas Technologies systems are in place for managing safety globally, CO CRC, International Power is building a pilot and that the systems are appropriate for the level 2 carbon capture and storage scheme which will be of identified risks and to ensure legal compliance.
one of the worlds foremost demonstrations of post-combustion capture of CO.
Non-financial KPIs 2 Accident frequency rate Health and safety is of vital importance in our Expanding renewables business.
It is important to provide all personnel Our expansion strategy focuses on countries where at our sites with a safe place to work, and any wind energy operates within favourable regulatory accident is disruptive to the running of the regimes, many of which are in Europe.
AFR is our reporting standard and is continued to expand our renewables portfolio, defined as the number of Lost Time Accidents which now has an aggregate capacity of 1,225MW.
LTAs divided by the number of hours worked, We are seeking to further expand our renewables multiplied by 100,000.
We define a LTA as 24 hours portfolio by acquisition and organically through absence from work this is a much tighter definition working with local developers.
than the usual legal requirement of three days.
Our first investment in solar power was completed in July 2008 with three projects comprising 90kW, Reportable environmental incidents 200kW and 1MW peak output installations of Our power plants are issued with environmental photovoltaic panels.
Located in northern Spain, licences by the relevant statutory authorities.
close to our existing Spanish Hydro assets, the Environmental licences require that any significant Juneda PV project was developed through our environmental incident is reported.
Spanish Hydro business, which is part of our partnership with Mitsui.
We have always had a policy of complying with all applicable environmental regulations and we We are also making good progress in our work with measure our ability to comply with environmental Tidal Generation Ltd and Rolls-Royce plc to develop regulations by recording the number of reportable a tidal generation business.
The grid connection environmental incidents at all plants where we have required to develop a 10MW tidal farm in the an interest including joint ventures and associates.
Pentland Firth, Scotland, was secured in 2008.
Technical availability Reducing sulphur dioxide emissions Technical availability measures when a plant We are investing significant capital in Flue Gas is available for dispatch.
Each of our plants will Desulphurisation FGD, a process that is fitted to generally be unavailable during some periods in coal-fired power stations to remove sulphur from the year due to a combination of planned outages emissions.
FGD is already fitted at our coal plant in for maintenance and unplanned outages.
the Czech Republic, at the Paiton plant in Indonesia and at Pego in Portugal, and we are installing it at An important aspect of our business is ensuring that Rugeley in the UK.
At Rugeley we expect the FGD our merchant power trading and Power Purchase plant to commence operating in the second quarter Agreements PPAs are closely aligned to our of 2009.
The use of FGD at Rugeley and Pego will operational activities and availability planning is a enable these two power stations to comply with key factor in this regard.
The year-on-year variance the revised EU Large Combustion Plant Directives in the profile of planned outages influences the restrictions on Sulphur Dioxide SO technical availability.
Non-financial KPIs Year ended 31 December 2005 2006 2007 2008 AFR 0.23 0.16 0.12 0.09 Reportable environmental incidents 16 16 13 6 Technical availability 90.1% 89.6% 90.0% 89.1% All non-financial KPIs are calculated on a full impact basis, at all assets where we have an interest, including joint ventures and associates.
Financial position and resources 17 Financial position and resources A summary of the Groups financial performance during the year is as follows: Income statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Revenue including joint ventures and associates 4,891 3,872 Profit from operations from subsidiaries 821 718 from joint ventures and associates 229 186 Profit from operations 1,050 904 Interest 368 308 Profit before tax 682 596 Taxation 123 113 Profit for the year 559 483 Attributable to: Minority interests 69 77 Equity holders of the parent 490 406 Uni-Mar Marmara, Turkey Earnings per share basic 32.4p 27.1p Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Profit from operations 1,156 518 Profit for the year 759 529 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 667 503 Earnings per share basic 44.2p 33.6p Net interest expense at 368 million is 60 million higher than 2007: mainly due to the interest expense relating to acquisitions made during 2007 and 2008.
The Group tax charge has increased by 10 million to 123 million.
The effective tax rate for the year was 22% 2007: 26% after the release of provisions relating to prior year tax, following the satisfactory resolution of some historic tax issues.
Excluding these items, the effective tax rate would have been 27%.
In 2007, the effective rate benefited from the impact of tax rate changes in the UK, Czech Republic, Germany and Italy.
Midlothian, US Exceptional losses before and after tax of 57 million comprise the impairment of our Milford plant by 37 million and a 20 million charge for Australian stamp duty arising from our acquisition of the Loy Yang B and Valley Power plants in 2004.
The specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in profit before tax for the year are gains of 290 million 2007: losses of 346 million, 163 million of which relates to decreases in forward commodity prices in the UK, US and Australia, 150 million to fair value gains on the 3.25% and 4.75% convertible euro bonds, and 23 million to losses on interest rate swaps.
Tax on mark to market movements during the year was a charge of 92 million 2007: a credit of 96 million.
The Group has US tax losses of US$593 million 412 million.
As a result of the acquisition of IPA Central the portfolio of four peaking plants in PJM and MISO in North America, certain of these tax losses have now been recognised as deferred tax assets on the balance sheet.
This has resulted in an exceptional tax credit of 59 million.
Financial position and resources 18 Cash flow A summary of the Groups cash flow is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Profit for the year 759 529 1 Depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash movements 411 406 Exceptional items 57 233 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 172 342 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 135 145 Capital expenditure maintenance 108 71 Net sale purchase of intangible assets 25 48 Net increase in working capital 109 4 Tax and net interest paid 485 413 Free cash flow 513 653 Australian stamp duty exceptional 7 Debt-financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt 33 2 Capital expenditure growth 156 160 Purchase of intangibles growth 8 Investments in joint ventures, associates and investments 58 1 Acquisitions 614 841 Disposals 418 Dividends paid 166 160 Proceeds from share issue 10 13 Net receipts from payments to minority interests 28 35 Foreign exchange and other 1,163 261 Increase in net debt 1,654 376 Opening net debt 4,662 3,575 Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries 2 711 Closing net debt 6,318 4,662 1 Depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash movements include income statement charges for interest, tax, depreciation, and the share of profit of joint ventures and associates.
Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 513 million, a decrease of 140 million compared with 2007.
This decrease is driven by an increase in maintenance capital expenditure of 37 million, principally at Rugeley, Hazelwood and Saltend: and an increase in net interest paid of 87 million.
In addition, there was a working capital increase in the year of 109 million due to stock building at Rugeley and a reversal of some one-off working capital benefits in 2007.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and exceptional items, as described on the previous page, have been reversed out of the profits for the year in calculating free cash flow.
Growth capital expenditure was 156 million in the year 2007: 160 million and mainly related to fitting Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD at Rugeley, the west field mine extension at Hazelwood and further construction in our European wind portfolio.
Acquisitions of 614 million in 2008 include the four peaking facilities in North America and additional shareholdings in Turbogs and Uch.
Net debt has increased by 1,656 million between 2007 and 2008, of which 1,282 million is attributed to currency translation impacts.
Overall, over 85% of International Powers total debt is represented by non-recourse project finance.
Financial position and resources 19 Summary balance sheet A summarised, reclassified Group balance sheet is set out below: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Goodwill and intangibles 1,137 901 Property, plant and equipment 7,318 5,721 Investments 1,803 1,292 Long-term receivables and others 1,943 1,530 12,201 9,444 Net current liabilities excluding net debt items 137 387 Non-current liabilities excluding net debt items 1,611 1,388 Net debt 6,318 4,662 Net assets 4,135 3,007 Gearing 153% 155% Debt capitalisation 60% 61% Net debt joint ventures and associates 1,820 1,297 Goodwill and intangibles, property, plant and equipment, and investments have increased by 2,344 million during the year, with the majority of this increase relating to the weakening of sterling.
The acquisition of the portfolio of North American peaking plants in July also contributed an increase in property, plant and equipment of 480 million at that time.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good liquidity and strong free cash flow generation.
At 31 December 2008 the business had 354 million of cash 2007: 290 million at the corporate level and 775 million 2007: 871 million at the asset level.
Debt within the Group comprises three convertible bonds with a book value of 900 million and 6,547 million of project level debt.
The Group has a corporate revolver of US$850 million which is predominantly used for letters of credit, bid bonds and short-term liquidity requirements.
Debt capitalisation has decreased marginally to 60% 2007: 61%.
During 2008, International Power and its partners raised a total of 919 million gross, 516 million net of project finance to fund acquisitions and greenfield development projects in North America and Europe.
In addition International Power issued E700 million of senior convertible bonds, due in 2015.
These significant financings were successfully completed in a challenging banking market in 2008, with all deals completed on attractive terms.
Dividend Umm Al Nar, UAE The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.59 pence per share, bringing the full-year dividend to 12.15 pence per share 2007: 10.16 pence per share, an increase of 20% year-on-year.
Payment of this final dividend to shareholders registered on the Company share register on 5 June 2009 is due to be made on 9 July 2009, following approval at the 2009 AGM which will be held on 21 May 2009.
Outlook We have a well established portfolio of long-term contracted assets which continues to perform well.
We are also well positioned in our key merchant markets, although forward pricing in the UK and the US does not reflect the attractive long-term market fundamentals.
In the absence of a significant improvement in pricing in these two markets, it is likely that Group profitability in 2009 will be lower than in 2008.
However, our assets are well placed to capture value, from both market recovery and short-term pricing volatility.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good corporate liquidity and no material refinancings in 2009.
We expect to continue to deliver strong free cash flow in 2009.
IPR European Wind Portfolio, Germany Board of Directors 20 Board of Directors Chairman Ranald Spiers 53 Executive Director, Middle East and Asia Sir Neville Simms FREng 64 Ranald was appointed to the Board in May 2008, as Executive Sir Neville became a Non-Executive Director of National Power Director, Middle East and Asia, based in Abu Dhabi and Singapore.
in August 1998 and was appointed Chairman of International Prior to this appointment, he was Regional Director for the Middle Power in October 2000.
He has been a member of the East, where he was responsible for leading the development, Presidents Committee of the CBI since 1998, is Deputy financing, construction and operation of power and water Chairman of Ashridge Management College and Chairman desalination assets throughout the region.
Ranald joined National of the BRE Trust.
Sir Neville was a Non-Executive Director Power in 1993, having previously spent 12 years with the BP of the Bank of England from 1995 to 2002 and Chairman Group.
Ranald is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry of the governments Sustainable Procurement Task Force FRSC and a Chartered Chemist.
Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Anthony Tony Isaac 67 Philip Cox 57 Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Tony became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in Philip joined the Company on 1 May 2000 as Chief Financial October 2000.
He is the Senior Independent Director and was Officer and was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Chairman of the Audit Committee until 1 April 2008.
He was International Power in December 2003.
He is responsible for the previously the Chief Executive of The BOC Group plc and is a overall management of the Company, and leading the executive Non-Executive Director of Schlumberger Limited and Hogg and operational teams in implementing the strategies approved Robinson Group plc.
Philip is a Chartered Accountant and prior to joining the Company he was a senior vice president at Invensys.
Alan Murray 55 He is a Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc and will become Non-Executive Director a Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Alan became a Non-Executive Director of the Company on with effect from 1 April 2009.
1 July 2007 and Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2008.
He was a member of the Managing Board of Heidelberg Mark Williamson 51 Cement AG until the end of 2008 and was previously the Chief Chief Financial Officer Executive of Hanson PLC, from April 2002 to October 2007.
Mark was appointed Chief Financial Officer of International He joined Hanson in 1988 and held various positions prior to Power in December 2003.
His responsibilities include financial his appointment as Chief Executive, including Finance Director control and reporting, tax and risk management.
Mark joined of Hanson PLC and Chief Executive of Hanson Building the Company as Group financial controller, with responsibility for Materials America.
the Groups financial reporting, in September 2000.
Prior to this Mark was at Simon Group plc, where he was the Group financial Struan Robertson 59 controller.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobacco plc Non-Executive Director and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Struan became a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 1 October 2004.
He is Chairman of the Health, Safety and Bruce Levy 53 Environment Committee.
He was Group Chief Executive Executive Director, North America of Wates Group Ltd until January 2004.
Before that he was Bruce was appointed to the Board in June 2005, and is Executive Chairman of BP Asia Pacific.
He is currently a responsible for all aspects of performance in North America Non-Executive Director at Forth Ports plc, Henderson TR including plant operations, finance, energy trading and business Pacific Investment Trust plc, Tomkins plc, and is the Senior development.
Prior to joining the Company, he was senior vice Independent Director of Salamander Energy plc.
Previously president and Chief Financial Officer at GPU, Inc. a diversified he was the Senior Independent Director at WS Atkins plc.
energy production and distribution corporation.
Bruce is Chair of the Electric Power Supply Association, the national John Roberts 63 association of competitive power suppliers in the US.
Non-Executive Director John became a Non-Executive Director of the Company Steve Riley 47 on 18 May 2006.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Executive Director, Europe Committee.
He was previously Chief Executive of United Steve was appointed to the Board in January 2004 and is Utilities PLC, a position he held for over six years.
Before that, responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the he was Chief Executive of Hyder Utilities and of Manweb.
He is European region including plant operations, finance, energy a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Institution trading and business development.
Steve joined the Company in of Engineering and Technology and the Association of 1985 holding senior positions in two UK power stations before Chartered Certified Accountants.
He is a Non-Executive being appointed managing director, Australia in January 2000.
Director of Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited, Merrill Steve is currently Chairman of the Association of Electricity Lynch New Energy Technology Trust and Remote Energy Producers in the UK.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Shanks Monitoring Holdings Limited.
Tony Concannon 45 Executive Director, Australia Tony was appointed to the Board in January 2004 and is responsible for managing all aspects of performance in the Australian region including plant operations, finance, energy trading and business development.
Tony is a Chartered Engineer and joined the industry in 1982.
He has previously worked in a number of business areas including power station operations, trading and international business development.
Summary Directors remuneration report 21 Summary Directors remuneration report The role of the Remuneration Committee Balanced and performance related: The Committee is responsible for: The remuneration of the Executive Directors incorporates both fixed and variable elements.
the establishment of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors Fixed elements including salary, pension and benefits are provided as part of a competitive the determination of the compensation employment package.
and terms of employment including any termination arrangements of Executive Variable elements are based upon the Directors and other senior executives of achievement of specific and measurable the Company shared and individual performance objectives over both the short and long-term that align approving all Company share plan and pension the Executives rewards with the creation of plan arrangements including the establishment value for shareholders.
and measurement of all performance conditions monitoring the total compensation of Shareholder aligned: Executive Directors in light of Group and Remuneration packages include significant individual performance opportunities to acquire, and obligations to retain, International Power shares, consistent The principles of the remuneration policy with our strategy of building a strong share for Executive Directors ownership culture.
The Committee has based its Executive Director remuneration policy on the following principles to At the Remuneration Committee meeting in ensure that it remains relevant to business needs: December 2008, the policy requirement for a minimum shareholding was reviewed and clarified.
Competitive: All Executive Directors, with the exception of the Total remuneration levels in comparison Chief Executive Officer CEO, have a requirement to our chosen comparator group are reviewed to hold shares equivalent to 100% of their salary.
on an annual basis in order to ensure they The requirement for the CEO is 150%.
are competitive and thereby to ensure that The Committee intends to maintain these principles International Power can retain and motivate of remuneration for 2009, as the Committee top calibre executives.
believes they are delivering fair and proportionate In determining the salaries and benefits of the rewards to the Executive Directors based on the Executive Directors, the Committee has regard Groups performance, and it will continue to to the treatment of staff and management monitor and consider changes in light of developing generally within the Group, to ensure that market practice.
an appropriate balance is maintained.
Directors beneficial interests as at 31 December 2008 The beneficial interest of the Directors in office at 31 December 2008 in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are shown in the table below: At 31 December 2008 At 31 December 2007 Sir Neville Simms 200,000 178,220 Philip Cox 775,504 775,504 Mark Williamson 227,132 125,097 Tony Concannon 172,093 153,518 Bruce Levy 155,364 90,364 Steve Riley 283,805 189,902 1 Ranald Spiers 223,315 n a Tony Isaac 25,501 25,501 Alan Murray 10,000 Struan Robertson 10,663 3,163 John Roberts 25,000 25,000 1 Date of appointment as a Director 15 May 2008.
Ranald Spiers held 223,315 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 15 May 2008.
No Director had, at any time during the financial year, any beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking.
TNP Pluak Daeng, Thailand The middle market quotation of an International Power plc Ordinary Share as at the close of business on 31 December 2008 was 240.25 pence 2007: 453.50 pence and the daily quotations during the year ranged from 182.00 pence to 463.00 pence.
No changes to Directors share interests have taken place between 31 December 2008 and 10 March 2009.
Summary Directors remuneration report 22 2008 Directors remuneration and interests Directors aggregate remuneration The table below shows the aggregate remuneration of the Directors of International Power plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
For Philip Cox, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance 144,000 and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap 12,100.
He also received a car allowance 15,000 and private medical insurance 1,350, which are included in Other benefits.
For Mark Williamson, the payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance 92,940 and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap 3,460.
He also received a car allowance 12,000 and private medical insurance 1,750, which are included in Other benefits.
The Other benefits entry of 517,100 for Tony Concannon comprises elements delivered from the UK 51,550, in Australia 15,850 and to cover taxes paid under the Companys expatriate policy 449,700.
The UK total comprises a car allowance 12,000, private medical insurance 2,850 in respect of both UK and international cover, relocation support 1,200, which is tapering off from a previous relocation and certain elements of the expatriate package provided 35,500.
The balance of the expatriate package medical costs and childrens schooling fees at 15,850 is provided locally in Australia.
The taxes paid by the Company in the UK and Australia are net of UK hypothetical tax paid by Tony Concannon in 2008, under the Companys expatriate policy.
The net tax liability for 2008 has been estimated by the Companys taxation specialists to be 449,700.
The Other benefits entry for Steve Riley incorporates a company car allowance 12,000, private medical insurance 1,750, the payment of school fees 51,708 and the value of relocation support 18,151.
Bruce Levys payment in lieu of pension figure comprises contributions to a 401k Savings Plan US$7,244, a Retirement Plan US$23,000 and a Supplemental Retirement Plan US$232,106.
He also received a car allowance US$21,600, medical and dental insurance US$5,705, disability and life insurance US$3,315 and relocation support US$28,000, the total of which is included under Other benefits.
The values shown in the above table, including for bonus, have been converted from US dollars to sterling using the average annual exchange rate of 1.8521.
For Ranald Spiers, all figures provided are on the basis of time since his appointment to the Board on 15 May 2008.
The payment in lieu of pension detailed in the above table sets out the contributions made in respect of a pension cash allowance 43,700 and the cost of providing supplementary life assurance above the notional pensions cap 2,650.
He also received a car allowance 7,500, private medical insurance 1,600 in respect of both UK and international cover, an overseas allowance 31,500 and other benefits paid locally in the Middle East relating to his expatriate status 22,950.
These elements are included in Other benefits, pro-rated since his appointment to the Board on 15 May 2008.
As with Tony Concannon, the Group is committed to funding Ranald Spiers worldwide employment tax and social security liability in excess of what would be due if he were resident for tax purposes in the UK, and had not triggered an overseas tax liability.
As Ranald Spiers is primarily based in the UAE, however, such taxes and social security are typically expected to be less than or equivalent to the hypothetical taxes and social security deductions that are withheld from his UK income.
Tony Isaac received a basic fee of 50,000, a 5,000 fee for Committee participation, 5,000 in respect of his role as Senior Independent Director and 2,500 for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee to the end of March 2008.
Struan Robertson received a basic fee of 50,000, a 5,000 fee for Committee participation and 10,000 for his role as Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
John Roberts received a basic fee of 50,000, a 5,000 fee for Committee participation and 10,000 for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Alan Murray received a basic fee of 50,000, a 5,000 fee for Committee participation and 7,500 for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 April 2008.
Adri Baans total fee of 55,000 for 2007 is shown to enable a more useful year-on-year comparison.
He retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2007.
Summary financial statement 23 Summary financial statement The summary financial statement is a summary of information in the Annual Report 2008.
As such, it does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or the Group and of their policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration as would be provided by the full Annual Report.
For further information, the full consolidated financial statements, the independent auditors report and the Directors report which includes the full Directors remuneration report should be consulted.
These are contained in a separate document entitled Annual Report 2008.
Those shareholders who only receive the Summary Annual Report but would like to receive, free of charge, the Annual Report for this or for future years should contact Equiniti, at the address set out on page 27.
This summary financial statement was approved by the Board on 10 March 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Mark Williamson Chief Financial Officer Independent auditor The independent auditors report on the financial statements of the Group was unqualified and did not contain a statement under either section 237 2 of the Companies Act 1985 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records and returns or section 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
Statement of the independent auditors to the members of International Power plc pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement and summary Directors remuneration report.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our work, for this statement or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Annual Report in accordance with applicable UK law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Summary Annual Report, with the full annual financial statements, Directors report and Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summary Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the Companys full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the Directors remuneration report.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, Directors report and Directors remuneration report of International Power plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered accountants Registered auditor 10 March 2009 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB Summary financial statement 24 Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 Results Exceptional Results for Results Exceptional Results for excluding items and the year excluding items and the year exceptional specific exceptional specific items and IAS 39 items and IAS 39 specific IAS 39 mark to specific IAS 39 mark to mark to market mark to market i i market movements market movements i i movements movements m m m m m m Revenue: Group and share of joint ventures and associates 4,891 339 5,230 3,872 387 3,485 Less: share of joint ventures revenue 417 417 340 340 Less: share of associates revenue 992 992 820 820 Group revenue 3,482 339 3,821 2,712 387 2,325 Cost of sales 2,552 204 2,756 1,927 2 1,929 Gross profit 930 135 1,065 785 389 396 Other operating income 112 112 96 96 Other operating expenses 221 20 241 163 9 172 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 229 9 220 186 12 198 Profit from operations 1,050 106 1,156 904 386 518 Disposal of interests in businesses 289 289 Finance income 104 104 77 77 Finance expenses 472 127 345 385 16 401 Net finance costs 368 127 241 308 16 324 Profit before tax 682 233 915 596 113 483 Tax expense 123 33 156 113 159 46 Profit for the year 559 200 759 483 46 529 Attributable to: Minority interests 69 23 92 77 51 26 Equity holders of the parent 490 177 667 406 97 503 Earnings per share: Basic 32.4p 44.2p 27.1p 33.6p Diluted 30.6p 34.7p 25.7p 31.8p All results are from continuing operations.
i The Group separately presents certain items as exceptional.
These are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order for the reader to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
In addition, in order to assist the reader to understand the underlying business performance, the Group separately discloses within the income statement specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for the year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Net loss on cash flow hedges 270 122 Revaluation deficit on step acquisition 12 Exchange losses recognised on net investment hedges 155 17 Exchange gains arising on translation of foreign operations 947 137 Tax on items taken directly to equity 18 23 Net income recognised directly in equity 540 9 Profit for the year 759 529 Total recognised income and expense for the year 1,299 538 Attributable to: Minority interests 100 21 Equity holders of the parent 1,199 517 Summary financial statement 25 Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2008 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 941 733 Other intangible assets 196 168 Property, plant and equipment 7,318 5,721 Investments in joint ventures and associates 1,756 1,279 Other investments 47 13 Finance lease receivables 1,669 1,252 Other long-term receivables 124 91 Deferred tax assets 120 142 Derivative financial assets 30 45 Total non-current assets 12,201 9,444 Current assets Inventories 275 150 Trade and other receivables 949 713 Finance lease receivables 58 41 Derivative financial assets 477 223 Cash and cash equivalents 1,129 1,161 Total current assets 2,888 2,288 Total assets 15,089 11,732 Current liabilities Loans and bonds 421 539 Derivative financial liabilities 544 508 Trade and other payables 894 720 Current tax liabilities 389 203 Provisions 69 83 Total current liabilities 2,317 2,053 Non-current liabilities Loans and bonds 7,026 5,284 Derivative financial liabilities 453 326 Other payables 57 30 Retirement benefit obligations 20 22 Provisions 72 98 Deferred tax liabilities 1,009 912 Total non-current liabilities 8,637 6,672 Total liabilities 10,954 8,725 Net assets 4,135 3,007 Equity Share capital 759 751 Share premium account 431 411 Capital redemption reserve 145 145 Capital reserve 422 422 Revaluation reserve 2 9 Hedging reserve 376 84 Translation reserve 859 35 Retained earnings 1,660 1,173 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 3,898 2,844 Minority interests 237 163 Total equity 4,135 3,007 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 10 March 2009 and signed on its behalf by Philip Cox Mark Williamson Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Summary financial statement 26 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the year 759 529 Adjustments for: Tax expense credit 156 46 Net finance costs 241 324 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 220 198 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets 298 320 Loss profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 2 2 Profit on sale of intangible assets 14 Exceptional losses gains before tax 57 233 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 172 342 Other non-cash movements 22 5 Decrease in provisions 81 38 Decrease in finance lease receivables 45 35 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7 Other cash movements 38 9 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 135 145 Purchase of property, plant and equipment maintenance 108 71 Purchase of intangible assets 47 58 Sale of intangible assets 72 10 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 1,107 1,070 Increase in inventories 76 2 Increase in trade and other receivables 109 88 Increase in trade and other payables 76 42 Decrease in assets held for trading 44 Cash generated from operations 998 1,066 Taxes paid 86 101 Interest paid 457 374 Interest received 58 62 Free cash flow 513 653 Cash flows relating to exceptional items: Payment of Australian stamp duty exceptional 7 Net cash inflow from operating activities 506 653 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment growth 156 160 Government grants received 1 Purchase of intangible assets growth 8 Acquisitions net of cash acquired, and increase in stake, of subsidiaries 539 778 Acquisitions of joint ventures, associates and investments 75 13 Investments in net of returns from joint ventures, associates and investments 58 1 Proceeds from partial disposal of subsidiaries 168 Proceeds from disposal of investments 250 Net cash outflow from investing activities 836 533 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends paid 166 160 Proceeds from share issue 10 13 Proceeds from new loans and bonds 2,065 616 Repayment of loans and bonds 1,577 423 Funding from minority interests 49 63 Funding repaid to minority interests 199 29 Distributions paid to minority interests 21 35 Net cash inflow from financing activities 161 45 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 169 165 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,161 980 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes thereon 137 16 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,129 1,161 Shareholder services and information 27 Shareholder services and information Annual General Meeting AGM Shareview dealing The 2009 AGM will be held on Thursday 21 May 2009.
Equiniti also offer a telephone and internet share dealing service, details of Further details are outlined in the Notice of the AGM.
which can be found on their website: www.
This arrangement is available at any time during market trading hours and Electronic voting provides an easy and convenient facility to trade shares offering real time For the AGM you can register your vote electronically by logging on to prices through a range of market makers, and giving you control of when the following website: www.
You will need your voting and for how much you wish to trade your shares.
Full terms and conditions reference numbers the three 8-digit numbers shown on your Proxy Form.
for this service are available on the Shareview website.
You should note Alternatively, if you have already registered for a Shareview portfolio with that for sales, the maximum online trade size is 25,000 and for purchases Equiniti, then log on to your portfolio at www.
To trade over the telephone, please call 0845 603 7037. on company meetings.
Share price Receive your Annual Report online Our latest share price information is available on our website at If you have access to the Internet, in future you can receive your copy of the www.
This link will provide you Annual Report by registering with www.
This is a service with International Powers latest share price, historical closing prices offered by Equiniti that also enables you to check your holdings in many UK and volumes and an interactive share price graph.
companies and helps you to organise your investments electronically.
Once In addition, you can now access the latest share price on your Blackberry, you have registered for a portfolio, you can also use this service to change PDA or mobile phone at http: mobile.
your address details online as well as register your vote for a companys General Meeting safely, securely and privately.
Contact details Consolidated tax vouchers General enquiries A new system was introduced in 2008 for those shareholders receiving Please contact: direct dividend payments.
Following this, single consolidated tax vouchers Stephen Ramsay are now issued at the end of March each year, in time for the preparation Company Secretary of self-assessment tax returns.
International Power plc Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street Dividend Reinvestment Plan London EC4V 4DP As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend you can choose to reinvest Tel: 020 7320 8706 your money in the Companys shares by using a Dividend Reinvestment E-mail: ipr.
The DRIP works by reinvesting your dividend money by way of buying shares in the open market.
If you would like to receive further Corporate investor and media enquiries information and an application form for the International Power DRIP, Please contact: please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268.
Aarti Singhal Head of Communications Individual Savings Accounts International Power plc Information on the International Power corporate Individual Savings Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street Account ISA, which offers a tax-efficient way of holding shares, London EC4V 4DP can be obtained from Equiniti Financial Services Limited, who can Tel: 020 7320 8600 be contacted on 0845 300 0430.
com Shareholder enquiries Website If you have any queries on the following: The International Power website: www.
com contains the 2008 Annual Report and Summary Annual Report, along with a wide range of transfer of shares other information on the Group.
The Annual Report and Summary Annual change of name or address Report can be found at www.
lost share certificates The website also hosts an alert service www.
com ipr siteservices alerts, where you can sign lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and payment of dividends up for e-mail alerts of news releases, reports, results and directly into a bank or building society account presentations and events.
death of the registered holder of shares Corporate responsibility receiving duplicate copies of this report Further information on corporate responsibility is available receiving the Summary Annual Report or the Annual Report on our website: www.
in addition to the electronic version of the report Financial calendar please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082 or write to them at Equiniti, For updates to the calendar during the year, please see our website: Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, www.
quoting International Power and including your shareholder reference number found on your share certificate.
Interim Management Statement 12 May 2009 Additional information can be found on the Equiniti Limited Annual General Meeting 21 May 2009 website at www.
2008 final dividend ex-dividend date 3 June 2009 2008 final dividend record date 5 June 2009 Share dealing services 2008 final dividend payment date 9 July 2009 Equiniti have in place a low-cost share dealing service for both the purchase Interim Report for the six months and sale of shares.
This is a postal service only.
For information on the ending 30 June 2009 11 August 2009 low-cost dealing service, or to obtain a dealing form, please contact Interim Management Statement 11 November 2009 Equiniti on 0871 384 2082.
Calls to Equiniti 0871 numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Disclaimer This document includes certain forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations and projections of the Group about future events.
However, by their nature forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual results may differ from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries in which the Group operates, changes in trends in the general, global or regional economies, changes in trends in the global energy sector, changes in regulation and natural disasters or other calamities.
Section 28 Registered Office International Power plc Senator House 85 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4DP Registered in England and Wales No: 2366963 Published by International Power plc www.
com Designed and produced by Roundel www.
com Photography: front cover iStockphoto It is important to us that our Summary Annual Report is produced in an environmentally responsible manner, including the sourcing of materials.
This Summary Annual Report is printed in the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral company, on Revive 75 Matt, a recycled paper with Forest Stewardship Council certification, using vegetablebased inks and water-based sealants.
The printer and paper-manufacturing mill both have ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental management.
When you have finished with this item, please dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Front cover Boston by night
