Financial statements 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 The following standards and interpretations have been issued by 1 Accounting policies the IASB and IFRIC, but have not been adopted by the European Commission and published in the EU Official Journal for their a General information application to become mandatory: International Power plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements is effective registered office is disclosed on the last page of this Annual Report.
for annual accounting periods of the Group beginning on The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year 1 January 2010.
This interpretation sets out general principles ended 31 December 2008 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries on recognising and measuring the obligations and related rights together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in joint in service concession arrangements.
As the Groups long-term ventures and associates.
The parent company financial statements power purchase agreements which are affected by the adoption present information about the Company as a separate entity of IFRIC 12 are already determined to be or to contain finance and not about its Group.
The principal activities of the Group leases, and the consideration receivable by the operator in are described in note 2. each case gives rise to financial assets, the impact of adopting IFRIC 12 is not expected to have a material impact on the Group: b Statement of compliance IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers is applicable European Union EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires prospectively to transfers of assets from customers received on that the consolidated financial statements, for the year ended or after 1 July 2009.
The interpretation considers the accounting 31 December 2008, be prepared in accordance with International for transfers of property, plant and equipment by entities that Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU Adopted receive such transfers from their customers.
These Group financial statements have been prepared and its scope are those in which an entity receives from a customer approved by the Directors in accordance with Adopted IFRSs.
an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity must The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial then use either to connect the customer to a network or to statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods Practice GAAP.
The parent company financial statements are and services, or to do both: and in which an entity receives cash presented on pages 166 to 175. from a customer when the amount of cash must be used only to construct or acquire an item of property, plant and equipment c Adoption of new and revised Standards and the entity must then use the item of property, plant and The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing equipment either to connect the customer to a network or to standards, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations and services, or to do both.
As the interpretation is to be applied Committee IFRIC, are applicable to the Group for the first time prospectively it is not possible to quantify its likely impact.
in the current year and future periods: d Basis of preparation The following Adopted IFRS was available for early application These consolidated financial statements have been prepared and has been applied by the Group in these financial statements: on the going concern basis and using the historical cost convention, IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised, effective for annual accounting modified for certain items carried at fair value, as stated in these periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revised standard accounting policies.
requires the capitalisation of borrowing costs, to the extent they are directly attributable to the acquisition, production or In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information construction of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business Previously there was an option to expense all borrowing costs performance, the Group presents its income statement in three as incurred.
Because the Group always capitalises borrowing columns such that it identifies i results excluding exceptional items costs incurred on qualifying assets, the revisions to IAS 23 have and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, ii the effect of no impact on either the Groups accounting policies or its results exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements or net assets.
and iii results for the year.
For the purposes of clarity, in the explanation of the basis of preparation applied in these consolidated The following Adopted IFRSs were available for early adoption but financial statements, these columns are described as the left hand have not been applied by the Group in these financial statements: column, the middle column and the right hand column respectively.
I FRS 8 Operating Segments is applicable for years commencing Those items that the Group separately present as exceptional are on or after 1 January 2009.
The new standard replaces IAS 14 items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed Segment Reporting and requires an entity to report segment separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain information on the same basis as that reported to management a proper understanding of the financial information.
The Group for decision making purposes.
The application of IFRS 8 in 2007 discloses exceptional items in the middle column.
would not have affected the results or net assets as the standard is concerned only with disclosure.
The adoption of this standard The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures.
In relation disclosures as management identify and measure the results to commodities trading, the Group considers economic hedges of reportable operating segments on a regional basis as set to be those which are asset backed, i. e. where the Group is either out in these consolidated financial statements: forward selling electricity from its own generation capacity or forward buying fuel for its own generation capacity.
In respect I AS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised, effective of interest rate swaps and other treasury-related derivatives for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The the Group considers economic hedges to be those which hedge revised standard aims to enhance the usefulness of information existing assets, liabilities and firm commitments.
presented in the financial statements including the introduction of a new statement of comprehensive income that combines all items of income and expense recognised in profit or loss together with other comprehensive income.
The application of the revised standard will not affect the results or net assets of the Group as it is only concerned with presentation and disclosures.
No impact is expected from any other standards that are available for early adoption but that have not been early adopted.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 108 International Power Annual Report 2008 The fair values of certain assets and liabilities acquired as part 1 Accounting policies continued of the Maestrale wind farm portfolio in August 2007 have been revised following the completion of an independent third party Some of these economic hedges achieve own use treatment valuation exercise during 2008 refer to note 30f.
In accordance under IAS 39 and are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Some with IFRS 3 Business Combinations the 2007 balance sheet has are accounted for as cash flow hedges under IAS 39 with fair value been re-presented.
gains and losses recorded in the hedging reserve.
Where derivative contracts do not achieve own use treatment and the Group could e Basis of consolidation not, or has not sought to, apply cash flow hedge accounting, IAS 39 The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial requires the derivative contract to be measured at fair value marked statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company to market with fair value gains and losses recognised in the income its subsidiaries up to 31 December each year.
The Group separately presents these mark to market where the Company has the power to govern the financial and movements on economic hedges, in the middle column, to assist operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits the readers understanding of underlying business performance from its activities.
In assessing control, the potential voting rights and to provide a more meaningful presentation.
that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
For economic hedges, where fair value gains and losses are recorded in the income statement, in the period in which the economically On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a hedged transaction settles, the settlement amount of the derivative, subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
being the cumulative fair value gains and losses recognised in the Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the current and prior periods, is presented in the left hand column so that identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any the transaction is measured at its contracted price i. e. the spot price deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the less the fair value gain or loss on the derivative contract at that date.
identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
As the cumulative mark to market movements have already been The interest of minority shareholders is stated at the minoritys recognised in the middle column in the current and prior periods, proportion of the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent an equal but opposite amount is presented in the middle column liabilities recognised.
Subsequently, any losses applicable to the so that cumulatively the amount recognised in the middle column minority interest in excess of the minority interest in the subsidiarys in respect of such economic hedges is zero.
equity are allocated against the interests of the parent, except when By presenting fair value gains and losses in this manner, the left hand there is a binding obligation to fund those losses and the minority column is not affected by mark to market movements and therefore is in a position to do so.
reflects the underlying business performance at contracted prices.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year The amortisation of derivatives, which are acquired with a fair value are included in the consolidated income statement from when other than zero, is always recorded in the left hand column.
This is control commences or up to when control ceases, as appropriate.
achieved by presenting an equal but opposite amount in the middle Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements column, such that specific IAS 39 mark to market movements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with presented in the middle column are shown net of the amortisation those used by the Group.
Ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges under IAS 39 can arise All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses from business combinations, where the fair value of the derivatives at are eliminated on consolidation.
acquisition is not equal to zero, or as a result of the difference between the contractual profile of the economic hedge and the profile of f Revenue recognition transactions defined as the hedged item.
IAS 39 requires ineffectiveness Certain power plants sell their output in merchant markets, in qualifying cash flow hedges to be recorded in the income statement, where electricity is sold through existing power exchanges, pool and therefore the Group records this ineffectiveness in the middle arrangements or through bilateral contracts with third parties.
column when it relates to an economic hedge.
In these markets, revenue from energy sales is either recorded at the spot price obtained through pool or spot mechanisms when Mark to market movements of the fair value of embedded derivatives the electrical output is delivered, or as set out below, when electricity in convertible bonds, which relate to conversion features where is delivered in accordance with the terms of any related hedging or the functional currency of the issuer and other factors preclude the forward contracts.
conversion feature being treated as equity in the consolidated financial i Because power is a non-financial item, forward contracts entered statements, are treated as specific IAS 39 mark to market movements into and which continue to be held for the purpose of delivery and as such are presented in the middle column.
The Directors and sale of power generated by our own power plants known consider the fair value gains and losses of these embedded derivatives as own use contracts can be accounted for under accruals should be appropriately disclosed within specific IAS 39 mark to accounting, i. e. revenue for energy sales is recognised as output market movements, in the middle column, so as to separately identify is delivered in accordance with the forward contract: a non-cash movement which, if the conversion option is exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity.
ii All other forward contracts, which are considered to be derivatives Mark to market movements relating to proprietary trading activities, and do not qualify for own use, are recognised at fair value with the revaluation of assets held for trading and amortisation of changes in fair value recorded in the income statement.
Where derivatives which are acquired with a fair value other than zero the Group applies cash flow hedge accounting changes in fair comprise part of the Groups underlying business performance values are deferred in a hedging reserve within equity and only and are appropriately, in the judgement of the Directors, included reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects within the left hand column.
In addition, to the extent that there is ineffectiveness in the cash flow hedge accounting of forward contracts, changes The right hand column presents the results for the year, showing in fair values of the forward contracts are taken to the income all gains and losses recorded in the consolidated income statement.
To the extent that exceptional items are separately identified in the income statement, they are also separately identified in the cash flow statement under the respective heading to which they relate.
Financial statements 109 Other power plants sell their output under power purchase Exchange differences arising are recognised in the Groups translation agreements PPAs.
Under such arrangements it is usual for the Group reserve, which is a component of equity.
Such translation differences to receive payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether are recognised as income or as expenses in the income statement or not the offtaker requests the electrical output capacity payments in the period of disposal of the net investment in foreign operations.
and for the variable costs of production energy payments.
In such In respect of foreign operations, any differences that have arisen situations, revenue is recognised in respect of capacity payments as: before 1 January 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, i finance income in accordance with note 1r where the PPA are presented as part of retained earnings.
is considered to be or to contain a finance lease: h Goodwill ii operating lease minimum lease payments, on a straight-line Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of basis in accordance with note 1r where the PPA is considered acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable to be or to contain an operating lease: or assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint venture iii service income in accordance with the contractual terms, to the or associate at the date of acquisition.
extent that the capacity has been made available to the contracted Goodwill arising on acquisition of joint ventures and associates offtaker during the period.
Where the PPAs extend over more is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
than one accounting period, service income is recognised in each accounting period at the fair value of the Groups performance Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment under the contract in each period.
annually and when there are indications of impairment.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement Under lease arrangements, those payments which are not included and is not subsequently reversed.
within minimum lease payments are accounted for as service income outlined in iii above.
On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or Energy payments under PPAs are recognised in revenue in all cases loss on disposal.
as the contracted output is delivered.
Liquidated damages LDs, in respect of late commissioning, are i Other intangible assets included in other operating income.
Emission allowances An intangible asset is recognised on receipt of allocated emission allowances and recorded at the fair value on Proprietary trading income is recognised on the basis of completed allocation.
The fair value of the grant is also recognised on receipt contracts and the mark to market value of outstanding contracts and deducted from the value of the intangible asset.
As a result no at the period end.
net asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet at initial recognition.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the Emission allowances are recognised at cost when purchased.
As principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, emission allowances are utilised they are charged to the income which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts statement within cost of sales.
To the extent that these allowances through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net were received by way of grant there is nil charge to the income carrying amount.
At the balance sheet date the net carrying amount of emission allowances held is compared with g Foreign currencies the fair value to assess for impairment.
These Group financial statements are presented in sterling, which is also the functional currency of the Company.
The functional currencies Forward contracts for sales and purchases of emission allowances of Group entities are principally determined by the primary economic are measured at fair value.
environment in which the respective entity operates.
Transactions A provision is made for the estimated shortfall between emission entered into by Group entities are translated into the functional allowances held and the anticipated requirement and is charged currencies of those entities at the exchange rate ruling at the date to the income statement on a pro-rata basis according to current of transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from and expected future emissions throughout the accounting period the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the based on the market value of those allowances.
exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised Contracts and rights Contracts and rights is the term we use in the income statement.
to describe intangible assets, acquired in business combinations separately from goodwill, arising from identifiable contractual or Foreign currency non-monetary items measured in terms of other legal rights where their fair values can be measured reliably.
historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the date These include beneficial in the money commodity contracts, which of the transaction.
Exchange differences on non-monetary items are qualify as own use contracts in accordance with the requirements recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non-monetary of IAS 39.
These contracts and rights are classified as intangible assets item itself is recognised in the income statement or in equity.
and carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the losses refer to accounting policy note 1o where cost represents Group enters into forward contracts and options refer to note 1q fair value at the acquisition date.
The intangible asset is then for details of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such amortised on a systematic basis in accordance with the pattern derivative financial instruments.
in which the future economic benefit of the contract is expected to be consumed by the entity.
Intangible assets with indefinite The net assets of the Groups overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and useful lives are not amortised.
An intangible asset with an indefinite associates are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance useful life is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average amount with its carrying amount annually, and whenever there exchange rates for the period which approximate to actual rates.
is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 110 International Power Annual Report 2008 Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair 1 Accounting policies continued values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition is recognised j Property, plant and equipment as goodwill within the carrying amount.
Any deficiency of the cost Property, plant and equipment are stated at original cost less of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment identifiable net assets of the joint venture or associate at the date in value.
In the case of assets constructed by the Group, related of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited to the income works, commissioning and borrowing costs as defined under IAS 23 statement in the period of acquisition.
Borrowing Costs refer to note 1w are included in cost.
Assets in the course of construction are included in property, plant and Where a Group company transacts with a joint venture or associate equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the date.
Costs relating to major inspections and overhauls are recognised Groups interest in the relevant joint venture or associate.
Losses may in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant and equipment provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which as a replacement if it is probable that future economic benefits case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
associated with the item will flow to the entity: and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
n Other investments Depreciation is calculated on a component part basis so as to writeOther investments consist of available for sale investments in debt down the cost of property, plant and equipment to its residual value and equity instruments which are measured at market prices where systematically over its estimated useful life.
Where quoted market prices in an active market are not residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed annually, available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, unquoted taking into account commercial and technological obsolescence equity instruments are measured at cost less impairment.
as well as normal wear and tear, provision being made where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
o Impairment of assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts The depreciation charge is based on the following estimates of its property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and those of useful lives: other investments measured at cost, to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any Years such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated Civil works 25-80 in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Power stations and wind farms 20-60 Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment 3-10 value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows Computer equipment and software 3-5 are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and hot gas path parts, on average 2-4 the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash Leasehold improvements Life of lease flows have not been adjusted.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount k Government grants of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable Contributions received towards the cost of property, plant and amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
equipment are recognised at fair value.
The grant is deducted from At each balance sheet date, an assessment is made to determine the cost of the related property, plant and equipment to derive the whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised carrying amount of the asset.
The grant is recognised as income over in prior periods may no longer exist or has decreased.
Where such the life of a depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
an indication exists, an impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the assets carrying value does not exceed the carrying amount that l Project development costs would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, Project development costs are principally incurred in identifying and if no impairment loss had been recognised.
developing investment opportunities and typically include feasibility studies, pre-bid costs, legal, professional and other related advisory p Non-current assets held for sale costs.
These costs including appropriate direct internal costs are Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the recognised as expenses as incurred, except that directly attributable lower of the assets previous carrying amount and fair value less costs costs are capitalised when it is virtually certain that the project will to sell.
No depreciation is charged on assets classified as held for sale.
proceed to completion and income will be realised.
Such capitalised costs are amortised over the life of the related property, plant and Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying equipment or contract.
amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when m Investments in joint ventures and associates the sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale A joint venture is an entity over whose activities the Group in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to sale within one year from the date of classification.
exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the q Derivative financial instruments investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the The Groups operating activities expose it to price risks associated financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not with selling its generation output.
The Group is also exposed to control or joint control over these policies.
price risks associated with the purchase of its fuel requirements and to financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates The results, assets and liabilities of jointly controlled entities joint and interest rates.
The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, ventures and associates are incorporated in these financial statements including energy-based futures and forward contracts, swaps and using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held options to hedge its risk to changes in power prices, fuel costs, for sale.
The results are presented after interest, tax and minority foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried instruments are principally used for hedging purposes although some in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes are used for proprietary trading purposes within defined risk limits.
in the Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture or associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups risk of the joint ventures and associates in excess of the Groups interest management policies approved by the Board of Directors, which in those joint ventures and associates are not recognised unless the provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
with the Groups risk management strategy.
Financial statements 111 Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at r Leasing the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The gain lessee, in return for a payment or a series of payments, the right to or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised in the use a specific asset for an agreed period of time.
The definition can income statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting include arrangements such as long-term PPAs, where power plants when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature are specifically designated to fulfil the requirements of an agreement.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair Finance leases Group as lessor Where the Group determines values of financial instruments measured at fair value that are quoted a long-term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where the offtaker in an active market are based on bid prices for assets held and offer has the principal risks and rewards of ownership of the power prices for liabilities held.
If the market for a financial instrument is not plant through its contractual arrangements with the Group, the active, its fair value is established by using valuation techniques.
These arrangement is considered a finance lease.
As discussed in note 1f, valuation techniques include comparison with similar instruments capacity payments are apportioned between capital repayments where market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, relating to the provision of the plant, finance income and service option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly income.
The finance income element of the capacity payment is used by market participants.
recognised as revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised to give a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase each period.
The service income element of the capacity payment or sell the assets.
Regular way transactions require delivery of assets is the difference between the total capacity payment and the amount within the time frame generally established by regulation recognised as finance income and capital repayments and recognised or convention in the market place.
as revenue as it is earned.
Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative financial Arrangements that do not convey the right to use a specific asset instruments that are designated and are effective as hedges of future through the term of the agreement result in the continued recognition cash flows are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion of property, plant and equipment, rather than a finance lease is recognised immediately in the income statement.
receivable, which is depreciated over its economic life.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to the income statement The amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income in the balance sheet as financial assets, classified as finance lease statement.
However, if the hedged item results in the recognition receivables, at the amount of the net investment in the lease after of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts accumulated in equity making provision for bad and doubtful debts.
on the hedging instrument are transferred from equity and included Operating leases Group as lessor An operating lease is any lease in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Thus where the Group determines a longHedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where the Group retains expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies the principal risks and rewards of ownership of the power plant, for hedge accounting.
At that time, for forecast transactions, any the arrangement is considered an operating lease.
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in For operating leases, the power plant is capitalised as property, equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
plant and equipment and depreciated over its economic life.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line income statement.
basis over the term of the arrangement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that Operating leases Group as lessee Rentals payable under do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straightstatement as they arise.
line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into in fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over commitment, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value the lease term.
attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms such in net income.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the derivative, or that the rental income is less than the head-lease rental cost, provision for non-derivatives, the foreign currency component of its carrying is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease payments during amount, are recognised in net income.
the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall of sub-lease income Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation Hedges of compared with the head-lease expense.
net investments in foreign operations are accounted for on a similar basis to cash flow hedges.
Effective gains or losses on the hedging s Inventories instrument are recognised in the translation reserve, with ineffective Plant spares, operating stocks of fuel and consumables are valued gains or losses recognised in finance costs in the income statement.
at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct Cumulative gains or losses in equity are taken to the income materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial the weighted average method.
instruments or other non-financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not t Cash and cash equivalents closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held are not carried at fair value.
by the Group and short-term deposits with an original maturity of Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand are reported in the income statement.
and form part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 112 International Power Annual Report 2008 1 Accounting policies continued w Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction u Loans and bonds or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value take a substantial period of time to be prepared for their intended less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
As difference between cost and redemption value being recognised referred to in note 1q, to the extent that variable rate borrowings are in the income statement over the period of the borrowings used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective cash on an effective interest basis.
flow hedge of interest rate risk, the hedging gain or loss relating to the effective portion of the derivative is removed from the hedging v Convertible bonds reserve and recognised as part of the initial carrying amount of the Convertible bonds are regarded as compound instruments, consisting asset.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of of a liability component and either an equity component or an specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets embedded derivative component.
is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for similar in which they are incurred.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds and the fair value assigned to the liability x Provisions component represents the value of either an equity component Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation or an embedded derivative component attributable to the as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be embedded option to convert the bonds into equity of the Group.
required to settle that obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be settled by the the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet entity receiving or delivering a fixed number of its own equity date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
instruments in exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset is an equity instrument.
It also states that a contract Provisions are made for onerous contracts.
Provisions for onerous that will be settled by the entity delivering or receiving a fixed number contracts are also made on acquisition as part of the fair valuing of of its own equity instruments in exchange for a variable amount assets and liabilities in a business combination where such contracts of cash or another financial asset is a financial asset or financial relate to non-financial items, which qualify for own use treatment liability.
For the purposes of the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39.
Provisions are when making the assessment of whether a convertible bond, when initially carried at cost, which for those acquired through business exercised, gives rise to the exchange of a fixed or variable amount combinations represents their fair value at the acquisition date.
of cash, or other financial asset, the functional currency of the issuing The provision is then utilised in accordance with the pattern company relative to the currency denomination of the bonds is in which the value of the onerous contract was determined.
considered in addition to other features within the bond.
y Decommissioning costs For convertible bonds issued by the Group where there is a difference Provision is made for reliably estimated decommissioning costs between the currency of the bond and the functional currency of at the end of the useful economic life of the Groups power stations the issuing company, the embedded option to convert the bonds and generating assets, if and when a legal or constructive obligation is recorded as a derivative liability because it is not a contract to arises, on a discounted basis.
The amount provided represents the exchange a fixed number of shares for a fixed amount of bonds.
present value of the expected costs.
An amount equivalent to the The embedded derivative liability component is separately identified initial provision is capitalised within property, plant and equipment and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
and is depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets.
The For convertible bonds issued by the Group where the currency unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
of the bond and the functional currency of the issuing company Where there is a subsequent change in estimate of decommissioning are the same, i. e. where on conversion of the bonds a fixed number costs, the present value of the change is recognised in the cost of of shares is exchanged for a fixed amount of bonds, the value property, plant and equipment.
of the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded within equity on initial recognition.
z Environmental liabilities Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and embedded Provision for environmental liabilities is made when expenditure option components of the convertible bonds recorded as equity on remedial work is probable, the Group is obliged, either legally or as a derivative liability based on their relative carrying amounts or constructively through its environmental policies, to undertake at the date of issue.
such work and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Where the amount is expected to be incurred over the long-term, the amount The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible and the unwinding of the discount is included within finance costs.
debt to the liability component of the instrument.
This interest expense, recognised in the income statement, is calculated using the effective interest method, i. e. the difference between the interest expense on the liability component and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bond.
Financial statements 113 aa Tax ab Pension schemes The tax expense represents the sum of the expected tax payable on Payments to defined contribution pension plans are charged as taxable income for the year, including adjustments in respect of prior an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state managed periods and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from accounting profit, defined benefit pension plans are dealt with as payments to defined as reported in the income statement, because it excludes items of contribution plans where the Groups obligations under the plans are income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution pension plan.
it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of providing benefits Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on The corridor method is applied in recognising actuarial gains and differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in losses.
Gains and losses in an individual scheme are recognised to the the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the extent they exceed the greater of 10% of the gross assets or gross computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance liabilities of the scheme.
The amount recognised in the following year sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised is the excess amortised over the remaining average service lives of the for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are employees in the scheme and is recognised in the income statement.
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be The net defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary represents the present value of the defined benefit obligations difference arises from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, adjusted for unrecognised actuarial gains and losses and unrecognised or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination service costs and as reduced by the fair value of the plan assets.
Any of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognised actuarial the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
losses and past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures ac Share-based payments and associates.
Where the Group is able to control the reversal The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future, no deferred at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting tax liability is recognised.
conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each date of grant of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and where applicable, all or part of the asset to be recovered.
adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions including service conditions.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
For the Groups Executive Share Option Plans the fair values are Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected lives when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, used in these models have been adjusted, based on managements in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, any exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset For conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share current tax assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes Plan, without a market-related performance condition, the fair values levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends have been calculated as the face value of the award, discounted for to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis the non-entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
or to realise an asset and settle a liability simultaneously.
Where conditional awards, made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 114 International Power Annual Report 2008 2 Segment reporting The Group is a global energy business that operates solely in one business segment, that of electricity generation.
The international operations are managed on a geographical basis, reflecting the different characteristics within each geographical market.
The Group reports its primary segment information by geographic segment as this reflects how results are reported for management purposes in the day-to-day management of the business.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenues and segment assets are based in the geographical location of both customers and assets.
There is no inter-segmental revenue.
Refer to notes 36 and 37 for a list of significant entities within each region.
Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 Subsidiaries Share of joint Total Subsidiaries Share of joint Total ventures and ventures and associates associates m m m m m m a Revenue excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 864 210 1,074 705 172 877 Europe 1,798 532 2,330 1,462 399 1,861 Middle East 79 135 214 72 113 185 Australia 701 11 712 439 84 523 Asia 40 521 561 34 392 426 3,482 1,409 4,891 2,712 1,160 3,872 Revenue including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 939 210 1,149 677 172 849 Europe 1,975 532 2,507 1,300 399 1,699 Middle East 79 135 214 72 113 185 Australia 788 11 799 242 84 326 Asia 40 521 561 34 392 426 3,821 1,409 5,230 2,325 1,160 3,485 b Profit from operations excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 148 29 177 108 28 136 Europe 500 81 581 521 53 574 Middle East 43 26 69 44 24 68 Australia 164 4 168 83 1 82 Asia 15 89 104 14 82 96 870 229 1,099 770 186 956 Corporate 49 49 52 52 821 229 1,050 718 186 904 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included within profit from operations 106 386 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 1,156 518 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements North America 135 21 156 91 24 115 Europe 577 81 658 329 54 383 Middle East 43 25 68 44 24 68 Australia 215 4 219 106 15 91 Asia 15 89 104 14 81 95 985 220 1,205 372 198 570 Corporate 49 49 52 52 Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 936 220 1,156 320 198 518 Financial statements 115 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Profit from operations including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 1,156 518 Disposal of interests in businesses exceptional 289 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 368 308 Net finance costs exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 127 16 Profit before tax 915 483 Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 123 113 Tax expense exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 33 159 Profit for the year 759 529 An analysis of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is included in note 8.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m c Depreciation and amortisation expenses excluding exceptional items North America 77 60 Europe 135 187 Middle East 4 3 Australia 77 66 Asia 4 3 297 319 Corporate 1 1 298 320 Depreciation and amortisation expenses are included within profit from operations.
In 2008 an impairment charge of 37 million relating to the Milford plant was recorded in the income statement.
This charge is not included within the North America total in the above table.
In 2007 the intangible asset relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply agreement acquired with Saltend in 2005 was impaired.
The charge of 47 million is not included within the Europe total in the above table refer to note 8.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m d Additions to property, plant and equipment North America 510 29 Europe 142 1,205 Middle East 2 3 Australia 83 57 Asia 1 1 738 1,295 Corporate 5 743 1,295 The table above includes property, plant and equipment recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition to expenditure incurred during the year.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 116 International Power Annual Report 2008 2 Segment reporting continued Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 Goodwill Contracts Emission Goodwill Contracts Emission and rights allowances and rights allowances m m m m m m e Expenditure on goodwill and other intangible assets North America 1 2 Europe 41 5 44 393 69 67 Middle East 1 Australia 71 Asia 8 41 13 45 464 70 69 The table above includes purchased goodwill and intangible assets recognised on the acquisition of subsidiaries during the year in addition to expenditure incurred on other intangible assets.
31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Segment Investments Total Segment Investments Total assets in joint assets in joint ventures and ventures and associates associates m m m m m m f Segment assets North America 2,699 246 2,945 1,445 180 1,625 Europe 6,977 558 7,535 5,604 390 5,994 Middle East 531 41 572 355 88 443 Australia 2,373 1 2,374 2,262 10 2,272 Asia 105 910 1,015 68 611 679 12,685 1,756 14,441 9,734 1,279 11,013 Corporate 528 528 577 577 Segment assets excluding current and deferred tax assets 13,213 1,756 14,969 10,311 1,279 11,590 Current and deferred tax assets 120 142 Total assets 15,089 11,732 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Segment Investments Total Segment Investments Total liabilities in joint liabilities in joint ventures and ventures and associates associates m m m m m m g Segment liabilities North America 1,722 1,722 1,070 1,070 Europe 4,050 4,050 3,367 3,367 Middle East 488 488 342 342 Australia 1,757 1,757 1,783 1,783 Asia 64 64 55 55 8,081 8,081 6,617 6,617 Corporate 1,475 1,475 993 993 Segment liabilities excluding current and deferred tax liabilities 9,556 9,556 7,610 7,610 Current and deferred tax liabilities 1,398 1,115 Total liabilities 10,954 8,725 The analysis of total assets and liabilities includes all attributable goodwill and excludes intercompany balances, which have been eliminated on consolidation.
Corporate assets and liabilities include cash held at the corporate level, included in cash and cash equivalents: corporate borrowings, included in loans and bonds: and provisions.
Financial statements 117 3 Profit for the year Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Profit for the year is stated after charging crediting : Amortisation of other intangible assets excluding exceptional items 23 115 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment excluding exceptional items 275 205 Exceptional items before tax note 8 57 233 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements before tax note 8 290 346 Development costs, net of recoveries and amounts capitalised 11 5 Liquidated damages and insurance recoveries for property, plant and equipment 7 9 Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 10 6 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 2 Amount removed from translation reserve on disposal of a foreign operation 2 Profit from operations is stated after the share of results of joint ventures and associates but before disposal of interests in businesses, finance income, finance expenses and tax.
Other operating income includes compensation for the late commissioning of plants, billings in respect of operations and maintenance services and profit on sale of development sites.
Other operating expenses comprise corporate costs, Group-wide general administrative overheads and project development expenses.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.3 2.0 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 Tax services 0.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or the Group 0.2 3.8 2.9 Services relating to corporate finance transactions incorporate due diligence assistance on potential and completed acquisitions and reviews of financial models for funding purposes.
The Audit Committee and the firm of external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
Examples of pre-approved services include the completion of regulatory audits, provision of certain taxation and regulatory advice, and the completion of certain financial due diligence work.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Chief Financial Officer and the Audit Committee.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 118 International Power Annual Report 2008 4 Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Group finance income Interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss on: available-for-sale financial assets 1 1 loans to joint ventures and associates 18 14 cash and cash equivalents 56 61 Group interest income calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss 75 76 Foreign exchange gains 29 Total interest income on financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss 104 76 Group finance income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss net gain on remeasurement of assets held for trading 1 Total Group finance income 104 77 The net gain on remeasurement of assets held for trading includes interest and dividend income.
Interest income comprises interest earned from bank deposits and other financial assets.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest income of 34 million 2007: 23 million.
Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 24 and 31.
5 Finance expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Group finance expenses excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Interest on: bank loans and overdrafts 351 283 other loans and bonds 118 91 unwinding discount on provisions 2 1 other payables 8 8 Total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss 479 383 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets 7 5 Foreign exchange losses 7 Total interest expense on liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 472 385 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on derivative financial instruments gains losses 127 16 Total Group finance expenses 345 401 Gains and losses reflected directly in equity are shown in notes 24 and 31.
Included within share of results of joint ventures and associates is interest expense of 143 million 2007: 118 million.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included within interest expense of joint ventures and associates amount to an expense of 10 million 2007: 4 million.
The mark to market movements recognised within finance expenses include a credit of 76 million in respect of the fair value gains and losses on the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 2007: charge of 17 million and a credit of 74 million in respect of the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 2007: nil refer to note 8.
Financial statements 119 6 Employee benefit costs and employee numbers Employee benefit costs, including Directors remuneration, were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Wages and salaries 165 139 Social security costs 11 10 Contributions to defined contribution plans 5 4 Charge for defined benefit plans note 7 5 8 Share-based payments equity settled 6 7 192 168 Less: amount capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment 3 3 Total employee benefit costs 189 165 Remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate.
Further details of Directors remuneration along with information concerning shareholdings, options and retirement benefits are set out in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 84 to 99.
There are no personnel, other than the Directors, who as key management have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities, directly or indirectly, of International Power plc.
No member of key management had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Short-term employee benefits 6 5 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 2 2 Total employee benefit costs of key management personnel 9 8 The average number of employees during the financial year, analysed by geographic segment was: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Number Number North America 363 338 Europe 1,355 1,252 Middle East 537 566 Australia 844 783 Asia 608 599 Corporate and development 205 183 Average number of employees 3,912 3,721 7 Retirement benefit obligations Group entities operate pension arrangements in order to provide pension benefits to retired employees.
Benefits granted have been developed to reflect local practice and may be provided through defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
The main defined benefit plans are in the UK and Australia: UK: The majority of pensions for UK employees are funded through the industry-wide scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS, which is a defined benefit scheme with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds.
The ESPS is divided into sections and the International Power Group of the ESPS was opened to members on 1 April 2002 and employees past service rights were transferred into the Group later that year.
The majority of employees taken on in First Hydro, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, are members of another section of the ESPS, the First Hydro Group.
Following a strategic review of the Groups exposure to pension risk over the long-term and a period of consultation with employees and their representatives, both the International Power Group of the ESPS and the First Hydro Group of the ESPS in the UK were closed to new members effective from 1 June 2008.
Existing members will continue to accrue future service benefits under these plans.
From 1 June 2008 all new UK employees are eligible to become members of a defined contribution pension plan.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the UK schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 March 2007.
The results of these valuations have been updated to 31 December 2008 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
At 31 December 2008, 54% of the pension liability of the First Hydro Group and 87% of the International Power Group of the ESPS related to members in service.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 120 International Power Annual Report 2008 7 Retirement benefit obligations continued AUSTRALIA: Employees at Hazelwood and Loy Yang B participate in a standard Australian superannuation fund called Equipsuper.
This plan provides benefits primarily for employees in the electricity, gas and water industry, and was developed from the scheme sponsored by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria.
Employees at Synergen participate in the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the Australian schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 30 June 2008 and 1 July 2008 for Equipsuper and the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme respectively.
At 31 December 2008, 95% of the pension liability in respect of the Australian schemes relates to members in service.
The liabilities and costs for IAS 19 were determined using the projected unit credit method.
The Group has decided to recognise gains and losses through the income statement over the expected working lifetime of active employees to the extent that gains or losses are in excess of the corridor 10% of the greater of the defined benefit obligation and the plan assets.
The charge for 2008 in respect of defined contribution plans was 5 million 2007: 4 million.
The Group used the following financial assumptions to calculate the scheme liabilities under IAS 19: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia % % % % % % % % % % Discount rate 5.7 3.7 5.8 5.3 5.1 4.9 4.7 4.6 5.3 4.5 Rate of increase in salaries 4.4 4.5 4.9 4.3 4.6 4.3 4.4 4.0 4.4 4.0 Inflation rate 2.9 3.0 3.4 3.0 3.1 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.9 3.0 Increase to deferred benefits during deferment 2.9 n a 3.4 n a 3.1 n a 2.9 n a 3.0 n a Increases to pensions payments 2.9 n a 3.4 n a 3.1 n a 2.9 n a 2.9 n a The mortality assumptions used have a significant impact on scheme liabilities for the UK plans.
The UK mortality assumptions at 31 December 2008 are based on a standard table derived from 1999-2002 census data.
The mortality tables allow for additional longevity improvements reflecting specific trends in the UK population regarding certain age groups.
The following table of average life expectancies illustrates the mortality assumptions used: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK UK UK UK UK years years years years years Life expectancy for a member aged 60 at year-end Men 26.0 25.9 22.8 22.8 22.8 Women 28.6 28.5 26.1 26.1 26.1 Life expectancy for a member aged 60 in 20 years time Men 27.4 27.3 23.7 23.7 23.7 Women 29.6 29.5 27.2 27.2 27.2 The plans in Australia provide lump sums at retirement and therefore the mortality assumption is much less important.
The amounts charged to profit from operations, recorded in the income statement, in relation to the defined benefit pension plans for the year ended 31 December 2008 were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Current service cost 10 11 Expected return on schemes assets 19 16 Interest on schemes liabilities 15 12 Amortisation of past service cost 1 Amortisation of actuarial gains and losses 1 Total operating charge 5 8 Financial statements 121 The expected rates of return weighted averages on the assets in the schemes were as follows: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia UK Australia % % % % % % % % % % Equities 7.4 7.8 8.0 7.8 7.5 7.8 7.1 7.5 7.5 7.3 Bonds 5.4 5.1 5.2 5.1 4.7 4.6 4.4 5.0 4.9 4.8 Other 6.7 6.0 6.7 6.0 6.2 5.9 6.0 5.9 6.0 5.5 Total long-term rate of return expected 6.9 7.0 7.5 7.0 7.1 6.7 6.6 6.7 7.0 6.5 The expected rates of return reflect the Groups best estimate of the investment returns that will be earned on each asset class.
These returns are based on advice provided by independent qualified actuaries.
The expected rates of return on bonds reflect the plans mix between index-linked, government and corporate bonds.
An equity risk premium is added to long-term government bond yields to give the expected rate of return on equities.
Other assets principally comprise cash and property.
The expected return on cash is derived from short-term interest rates and the return on cash instruments.
The expected return on other assets such as property is determined by adding an appropriate risk premium to government bonds in the relevant country.
Assets in the scheme were as follows: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Equities 80 57 137 116 68 184 108 55 163 84 52 136 66 44 110 Bonds 19 16 35 20 18 38 17 15 32 14 17 31 11 16 27 Other 29 18 47 19 23 42 10 21 31 16 15 31 12 10 22 Total market value of assets 128 91 219 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159 The reconciliation of the schemes deficits surpluses to the balance sheet amount is: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total UK Australia Total m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Total market value of assets 128 91 219 155 109 264 135 91 226 114 84 198 89 70 159 Present value of scheme liabilities 177 124 301 176 93 269 158 83 241 151 79 230 114 70 184 Deficit surplus in the scheme 49 33 82 21 16 5 23 8 15 37 5 32 25 25 Unrecognised actuarial losses gains 31 31 62 1 18 17 10 10 12 7 5 4 4 Pension liability before deferred tax 18 2 20 20 2 22 23 2 25 25 2 27 25 4 29 Movements in fair value of assets: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 264 226 Expected return on assets 19 16 Actuarial losses gains 73 4 Employer contributions 7 11 Scheme participants contributions 3 3 Benefits paid, net of transfers in 10 5 Exchange differences 9 9 At 31 December 219 264 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 122 International Power Annual Report 2008 7 Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in defined benefit obligations: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 269 241 Service cost 10 11 Interest cost 15 12 Actuarial losses gains 3 2 Scheme participants contributions 3 3 Benefits paid, net of transfers in 10 5 Settlements, curtailments and amendments 1 Exchange differences 11 8 At 31 December 301 269 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are: Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Increase Increase effect effect Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% 8.5% 7.5% Rate of increase in salaries Increase by 0.5% 3.3% 3.0% Inflation Increase by 0.5% 11.7% 7.4% Rate of mortality UK plans only Pensioners live one year longer 3.0% 3.0% A history of experience gains and losses is as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Difference between the actual and expected return on schemes assets: Amount m 73 4 9 16 9 Percentage of schemes assets 33% 2% 4% 8% 6% Experience gains losses on schemes liabilities : Amount m 3 5 2 11 7 Percentage of the present value of schemes liabilities 1% 2% 1% 5% 4% Does not include the effect of changes in assumptions.
Contributions in 2009 The Group expects to make contributions of approximately 15 million to its defined benefit pension arrangements in 2009.
Financial statements 123 8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements In accordance with the basis of preparation outlined in note 1, the Group separately presents exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance.
Those items that the Group separately present as exceptional are items which, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence in order to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information.
The Group enters into derivative contracts to economically hedge certain of its physical and financial exposures.
Where these contracts do not achieve own use treatment, hedge accounting or wholly effective hedge effectiveness under IAS 39, the Group separately presents the mark to market movements on these contracts, recorded within the income statement to allow an understanding of underlying business performance.
Mark to market movements on convertible bonds, where the conversion option, if exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity are also separately presented to allow an understanding of the underlying business performance.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Mark to market movements 339 387 Amounts recognised in revenue 339 387 Impairment of Milford plant 37 Impairment of Saltend gas contract 47 Mark to market movements 167 45 Amounts recognised in cost of sales 204 2 Australian stamp duty 20 Provision against investment in BioX 9 Amounts recognised in other operating expenses 20 9 Mark to market movements 9 12 Amounts recognised in share of results of joint ventures and associates 9 12 Disposal of investment in Malakoff 115 Partial disposal of UK subsidiaries 174 Amounts recognised in disposal of interests in businesses 289 Mark to market movements 127 16 Amounts recognised in finance expenses 127 16 Recognition of US tax losses 59 Taxation on impairment of Saltend gas contract 14 Remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities associated with acquisition of Maestrale 49 Taxation on mark to market movements 92 96 Exceptional taxation and taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 33 159 Total exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements after attributable taxation 200 46 Exceptional items recognised in cost of sales On 31 December 2008 the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Milford power plant based on its estimated value in use.
Principally as a result of its long-term power purchase agreement coming to an end, and the projections of forward capacity and energy prices, the carrying amount of plant was impaired by 37 million refer to note 14.
There was no tax credit associated with this impairment.
On 31 December 2007 the intangible asset relating to the unamortised fair value of the gas supply contract, acquired with Saltend in 2005, was impaired following a reduction in the gas forward price curve.
A charge of 47 million and associated tax credit of 14 million were classified as exceptional items.
Exceptional items recognised in other operating expenses In 2004, as part of the acquisition of the EME portfolio, International Power through our IPM Eagle partnership with Mitsui acquired the Loy Yang B and Valley Power plants in Victoria, Australia.
Although at the time we did not consider any Australian stamp duty would be payable, the Victorian State Revenue Office VSRO has challenged that position.
In 2008 we signed a settlement agreement with the VSRO, under which we agreed to make payments for stamp duty on the transaction spread over 5 years.
The 20 million charged as an exceptional item represents the present value of those payments.
On 30 June 2007 the Group made a full provision against its investment in BioX.
The investment has substantially ceased trading during 2008.
Exceptional items recognised in disposals of interests in businesses On 30 April 2007 the Group completed the sale of its interests in the Malakoff wholesale power generation business to MMC Corporation resulting in a profit on disposal of 115 million.
On 20 June 2007 the Group completed the formation of a new partnership with Mitsui & Co. Ltd.
The partnership created a common ownership platform for the UK assets, excluding Derwent, and equalised returns from Paiton.
A profit on disposal of 174 million was recorded on the partial disposal of Deeside, Rugeley and Indian Queens.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 124 International Power Annual Report 2008 8 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements continued Exceptional taxation As a result of the acquisition in 2008 of the portfolio of North American peaking plants, the recoverability of certain International Power US tax losses for which no deferred tax asset had previously been recognised was re-assessed.
The acquisition created significant deferred tax liabilities, against which the tax losses can be offset in future, and hence a deferred tax asset for those losses has been recognised.
On 28 December 2007 a change in the standard rate of Italian corporation tax from 37.5% to 31.4%, effective 1 January 2008, was approved by the Italian government.
Consequently all relevant deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2007 were remeasured at 31.4%.
The resulting net credit of 49 million relating to reducing the net deferred tax liabilities of the Maestrale acquisition was presented as an exceptional item due to its magnitude and proximity of the date of change in standard rate of tax to the date of acquisition.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are separately identified within the preceding table, described as mark to market movements.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 the impact of these adjustments on profit before tax is a profit of 290 million 2007: loss of 346 million and on tax expense a charge of 92 million 2007: credit of 96 million.
The mark to market movements recognised within finance expenses includes a credit of 76 million in respect of the fair value gains and losses on the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 2007: charge of 17 million and a credit of 74 million in respect of the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015.
9 Tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m a Tax expense for the year Current tax charge UK corporation tax charge 55 68 Foreign tax 69 52 Adjustments in respect of prior years 18 4 Total current tax charge for the year 142 124 Deferred tax charge Origination and reversal of temporary differences 102 168 Benefits of tax losses recognised 88 2 Total deferred tax charge credit for the year 14 170 Tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 123 113 Exceptional tax credit 59 49 Tax expense credit on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 92 110 Total income tax expense credit for the year 156 46 Included in the tax expense are the following amounts relating to exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, included in: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Revenue deferred tax 75 101 Cost of sales deferred tax 34 4 Finance expenses deferred tax 51 5 Tax expense credit on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 92 110 The deferred tax charge is derived as follows: 22 million from UK operations 2007: credit of 54 million and credit of 8 million from foreign operations 2007: credit of 116 million.
Tax is charged credited to: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Income statement 156 46 Equity 2 25 158 71 Financial statements 125 Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 Results excluding Results including Results excluding Results including exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items exceptional items and specific and specific and specific and specific IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark IAS 39 mark to market to market to market to market movements movements movements movements m m m m b Reconciliation of tax expense to accounting profit Profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 682 682 596 596 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 233 113 Profit before tax 682 915 596 483 Tax at domestic tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30% 194 261 179 145 Tax effect of: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 12 23 4 4 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 22 21 42 42 Tax holidays 8 8 8 8 Expenses not deductible income not taxable in determining taxable profit 28 34 10 63 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 16 9 4 7 Change in tax rate 24 24 31 80 Adjustment to prior year provisions 41 41 5 5 Recognition of US tax losses note 8 59 Tax expense for the year 123 156 113 46 Included in profit before tax excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of 31 million 2007: 60 million relating to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
The 22 million shown above 2007: 42 million represents 71.5% of this tax charge 2007: 70%.
The remaining 28.5% is already included within the tax charge calculated at the domestic tax rate.
Included in profit before tax including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is a tax charge of 30 million 2007: 60 million relating to the Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates.
The 21 million shown above 2007: 42 million represents 71.5% of this tax charge 2007: 70%.
The statutory tax rate in the UK was reduced from 30% to 28% with effect from 1 April 2008.
Tax rate reductions have also occurred in Indonesia and tax rate increases have occurred in Italy for profits from non-renewable generation.
The effect of these rate changes is included in the above amounts.
10 Dividends An interim dividend of 3.56p 2007: 2.77p per Ordinary Share, proposed by the Directors, was paid on 31 October 2008.
This dividend amounted to 54 million 2007: 42 million.
In respect of the current year, the Directors also propose a final dividend of 8.59p 2007: 7.39p per Ordinary Share.
This dividend equates to 130 million 2007: 112 million and will be paid on 9 July 2009, subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
This dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 December 2008.
There are no tax consequences to the Company arising from these dividends.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 126 International Power Annual Report 2008 11 Earnings per share Earnings Per Share EPS is presented both before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance.
Further details of the exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements can be found in note 8 to these consolidated financial statements.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 pence pence a Earnings per share basic Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 32.4 27.1 After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 44.2 33.6 b Earnings per share diluted Before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 30.6 25.7 After exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 34.7 31.8 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m c Basis of calculation basic earnings Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 490 406 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and minority interests 177 97 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 667 503 d Basis of calculation diluted earnings Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 490 406 After tax dilutive effect of interest on convertible bonds 31 6 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 521 412 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and minority interests 177 97 After tax dilutive effect of mark to market movements on convertible bonds 108 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 590 509 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Million Million e Basis of calculation basic number of Ordinary Shares Weighted average number of issued Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic EPS 1,510.3 1,498.5 Weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 0.1 0.5 Weighted average number of shares 1,510.2 1,498.0 f Basis of calculation diluted number of Ordinary Shares Weighted average number of shares basic 1,510.2 1,498.0 Dilutive potential Ordinary Shares: Employee share schemes 8.7 10.8 Convertible bond 183.2 92.8 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,702.1 1,601.6 The Groups three convertible bonds are dilutive when calculating diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 2007: the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 were anti-dilutive and were excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
The treatment of whether potential Ordinary Shares are dilutive or anti-dilutive in the calculation of diluted earnings per share before exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is applied consistently with their determination in the calculation of diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Financial statements 127 12 Goodwill 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Carrying amount At 1 January 733 226 Acquired through business combinations 41 464 Exchange differences 167 43 At 31 December 941 733 The 41 million acquired through business combinations in 2008 relates to the acquisition of an additional 40% shareholding in Turbogs and an additional 27% shareholding in Portugen.
The 464 million acquired through business combinations in 2007 relates to Maestrale 360 million, Simply Energy 71 million, Saltend 23 million and First Hydro 10 million.
Refer to note 30b for further details of the 2008 acquisitions.
Given the geographical diversity of the Groups power plants and the nature of their operations, for impairment testing purposes the Directors consider that each power plant owning subsidiary is a separate cash generating unit.
The following cash generating units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Maestrale Europe 515 391 First Hydro Europe 163 163 Simply Energy Australia 87 80 Turbogs Europe 87 28 Coleto Creek North America 52 37 Saltend Europe 23 23 International Power Opatovice Europe 11 9 Others 3 2 941 733 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or when there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The cash generating units recoverable amounts are determined from value in use calculations.
These are based on projected cash flows from individual project whole life asset models.
The projected cash flows extend over the whole of the assets expected lives as this best reflects the long-term nature of the returns generated by the long-life assets.
Key assumptions include the discount rates and market prices for electricity and fuel costs over the lives of the assets.
To test for impairment these cash flows have been discounted using rates in the range of 8% to 13% 2007: 6% to 13% on a pre-tax basis.
Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates take into account current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the respective cash generating unit.
Generally, the lower end of the discount rate range is applied to entities where demand risk is borne by the offtaker, while the upper end of the discount rate range is applied to merchant businesses, reflecting the increased demand risk and the possible variability of future cash flows.
Increasing the pre-tax discount rate to a range between 9% and 17% would be required for the cash generating units recoverable amounts to equal their carrying amounts.
Market price assumptions are considered in the light of forward price curves which represent the Groups view as to prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates and forecast demand and supply growth over the lives of the assets.
Electricity prices beyond the period of an observable market are determined by reference to long-term market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
For merchant businesses a decrease in the forward price curves over the lives of the asset in the range of 10% to 23% would be required for the cash generating units recoverable amounts to equal their carrying amounts.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 128 International Power Annual Report 2008 13 Other intangible assets Contracts Emission Total and rights allowances m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 282 61 343 Additions 1 57 58 Acquisition of subsidiaries 69 12 81 Disposals 10 10 Exchange differences 2 1 3 At 31 December 2007 354 121 475 Additions 10 45 55 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3 3 Disposals 58 58 Exchange differences 42 25 67 At 31 December 2008 409 133 542 Amortisation and impairments At 1 January 2007 141 3 144 Amortisation charge for the year 66 49 115 Impairments 47 47 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 December 2007 255 52 307 Amortisation charge for the year 17 6 23 Exchange differences 13 3 16 At 31 December 2008 285 61 346 Carrying amount At 1 January 2007 141 58 199 At 31 December 2007 99 69 168 At 31 December 2008 124 72 196 There are no intangible assets, other than goodwill, with indefinite useful lives.
Contracts and rights are amortised over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
The contracts and rights acquired in 2008 principally relate to development rights for European wind farms and other renewables projects.
The amortisation of these contracts is included in cost of sales.
The acquired contracts and rights in 2007 relate to fixed price offtake agreements and favourable contracts acquired as part of the Maestrale acquisition and our other European wind farm acquisitions.
The amortisation of these contracts is included in revenue.
In 2007 the carrying amount of the Saltend gas contract was impaired in full.
The Group has recognised any emission allowances, allocated to the Group for no consideration, net of the fair value of the grant.
As a result, no net asset or liability is shown on the balance sheet at initial recognition.
The amortisation of any emission allowances purchased or acquired through business combinations is charged to cost of sales in the income statement over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
As part of the European Union EU Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS, designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the EU over the medium-term, the Group was granted emission allowances amounting to 130 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: 62 million.
Intangible assets with a carrying amount of 62 million 2007: 81 million are subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
Financial statements 129 14 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, machinery Assets in course Total buildings and equipment of construction m m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 164 5,076 94 5,334 Additions 4 60 167 231 Government grants received 1 1 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2 977 85 1,064 Disposals 11 12 23 Reclassifications and transfers 1 91 136 44 Exchange differences 10 275 20 305 At 31 December 2007 170 6,467 229 6,866 Additions 2 141 114 257 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1 485 486 Disposals 24 24 Reclassifications and transfers 99 154 55 Exchange differences 33 1,412 20 1,465 At 31 December 2008 206 8,580 209 8,995 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2007 36 863 899 Depreciation charge for the year 10 195 205 Disposals 6 12 18 Exchange differences 3 56 59 At 31 December 2007 43 1,102 1,145 Depreciation charge for the year 6 269 275 Impairment 37 37 Disposals 22 22 Exchange differences 7 235 242 At 31 December 2008 56 1,621 1,677 Carrying amount At 1 January 2007 128 4,213 94 4,435 At 31 December 2007 127 5,365 229 5,721 At 31 December 2008 150 6,959 209 7,318 At the end of the year the Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Milford plant following its long-term power purchase agreement coming to an end and changes in prices in the forward capacity and energy markets.
This resulted in an impairment of 37 million.
A pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate of 15% was used for the calculation.
The impairment charge is included in cost of sales.
Interest capitalised in the year was 7 million 2007: 5 million, at an average capitalisation rate of 6%.
On a cumulative basis, after taking into account exchange differences and depreciation, the carrying amount of interest capitalised is 79 million 2007: 64 million.
The total value of land, included within land and buildings, that is not depreciated is 53 million 2007: 41 million.
In both 2008 and 2007 reclassifications and transfers consist of amounts moved from assets in course of construction to plant, machinery and equipment and to finance lease receivables and inventories.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 6,930 million 2007: 5,377 million is subject to fixed and floating charges from banks providing borrowing facilities which are non-recourse to the Company.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 1 million 2007: 1 million is subject to finance lease arrangements.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 130 International Power Annual Report 2008 15 Investments in joint ventures and associates Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups joint ventures and associates is set out below: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m a Joint ventures net assets including goodwill Non-current assets 2,010 1,173 Current assets 539 225 Total assets 2,549 1,398 Current liabilities 343 123 Non-current liabilities 1,084 565 Total liabilities 1,427 688 Net assets 1,122 710 Groups share of joint ventures net assets 577 346 b Associates net assets including goodwill Non-current assets 8,245 5,847 Current assets 2,277 1,298 Total assets 10,522 7,145 Current liabilities 1,779 724 Non-current liabilities 5,862 3,975 Total liabilities 7,641 4,699 Net assets 2,881 2,446 Groups share of associates net assets 1,179 933 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m c Results of joint ventures Total results of joint ventures Revenue 825 693 Profit for the year 135 122 Groups share of results of joint ventures Share of revenue 417 340 Share of profit for the year 67 59 d Results of associates Total results of associates Revenue 2,966 2,501 Profit for the year 426 426 Groups share of results of associates Share of revenue 992 820 Share of profit for the year 153 139 At 31 December 2008 the Groups investments that are listed on a recognised stock market are those in The Hub Power Company Limited HUBCO and Kot Addu Power Company Limited KAPCO.
HUBCO and KAPCO are considered associates and International Power continues to apply the equity method of accounting to HUBCO despite its shareholding being less than 20% refer to note 37.
The Groups share of HUBCO and KAPCO was valued at 25 million 2007: 50 million and 88 million 2007: 125 million, respectively, on the major Pakistan stock markets.
Market values for Group shareholdings in these investments were 49 million below the carrying value of these investments at 31 December 2008.
However, due to the contracted nature of the income earned by these investments, the Directors do not consider there has been any permanent diminution in value.
Included within the Groups share of net assets of joint ventures and associates is net debt of 1,820 million 2007: 1,297 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group company.
A full list of significant joint ventures and associates is included in note 37.
Financial statements 131 16 Other investments 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Carrying amount At 1 January 13 26 Additions 34 Disposals 2 Provisions 9 Repayments 2 1 Exchange differences 2 1 At 31 December 47 13 Other investments comprise investments available-for-sale including both debt and equity instruments in a number of businesses related to power generation.
The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of their discounted cash flows.
The equity instruments are not quoted but are shares in privately owned companies.
There is no market for these investments.
Therefore the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be measured reliably and the carrying amount has been determined by using the cost of acquiring the shares in these companies.
It is not currently the intention of the Company to dispose of these investments, although circumstances may change.
On 30 June 2007 the Group made a full provision against its investment in BioX refer to note 8.
17 Finance lease receivables 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Minimum lease payments: Not later than one year 174 127 Later than one year and not later than five years 687 500 Later than five years 1,937 1,529 2,798 2,156 Add: unguaranteed residual value 204 129 Gross investment in the lease 3,002 2,285 Less: unearned finance income 1,275 992 Total finance lease receivables 1,727 1,293 Analysed as: Present value of minimum lease payments: Not later than one year 58 41 Later than one year and not later than five years 262 184 Later than five years 1,203 939 1,523 1,164 Add: unguaranteed residual value 204 129 Total finance lease receivables 1,727 1,293 Non-current assets 1,669 1,252 Current assets 58 41 Total finance lease receivables 1,727 1,293 International Powers business is primarily the generation of electricity and provision of electrical capacity.
The Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted revenues for a long period of time.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain finance leases.
The tenors of the finance leases are usually a substantial portion of the assets useful economic lives.
The interest rate inherent in the lease is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term.
The average effective interest rate contracted is approximately 7% per annum 2007: 7% per annum.
The fair value of the Groups finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2008 is estimated at 1,724 million 2007: 1,226 million based on discounting estimated cash flows at the market rate.
Excluding assets which are constructed by the Group, the cost of assets acquired by the Group during the year for onward finance leasing was nil 2007: 126 million.
There are no finance lease receivables past due.
Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German governments.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 132 International Power Annual Report 2008 18 Other long-term receivables 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Total other long-term receivables 124 91 At 31 December 2008 receivables with a carrying amount of 10 million 2007: 7 million were past due for more than six months for which an impairment loss has not been recognised.
Offsetting liabilities are held against these receivables with a strong investment grade counterparty.
19 Deferred tax Deferred tax accounted for in the consolidated balance sheet and the potential amounts of deferred tax are: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Total gross deferred tax assets 597 459 Less: deferred tax assets not recognised 63 144 Total deferred tax assets 534 315 Total deferred tax liabilities 1,423 1,085 Net deferred tax liabilities 889 770 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for balance sheet purposes.
31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Deferred tax assets 120 142 Deferred tax liabilities 1,009 912 Net deferred tax liabilities 889 770 Deferred tax assets will be offset against suitable taxable profits when they arise.
The Group has 267 million 2007: 202 million potential deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses.
Of this amount 174 million 2007: 158 million can be carried forward for a period of between 14 and 20 years.
The balance can be carried forward indefinitely.
Of the 267 million 2007: 202 million of losses, 253 million has been recognised 2007: 107 million.
At the balance sheet date, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates was 2,513 million 2007: 1,154 million.
At 31 December 2008 a deferred tax provision of 80 million 2007: 59 million has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences which are likely to reverse in the near future or where the Group is unable to control the reversal of the timing difference.
Calculation of the potential deferred tax liability for the total aggregate undistributed earnings has not been undertaken as the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
If the temporary differences were to reverse in the future, it is probable that the majority of the potential tax liability would be covered by tax credits in respect of tax paid locally.
As outlined in note 9, changes to the tax rates in certain jurisdictions were enacted or substantively enacted during 2008 and 2007.
Financial statements 133 Movement in temporary differences during the year: 1 January Recognised Recognised Acquisition of Other Exchange 31 December 2008 in income in equity subsidiaries movements differences 2008 statement m m m m m m m Intangible assets 23 6 6 23 Property, plant and equipment, and finance lease receivables 1,030 38 67 83 199 1,251 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 59 15 6 80 Derivative financial instruments 155 90 27 5 97 Employee benefits 24 1 12 13 Provisions 18 8 1 3 1 15 Tax losses 107 88 3 61 253 Other temporary differences 38 42 4 1 4 8 87 770 14 11 67 87 136 889 1 January Recognised Recognised Acquisition of Other Exchange 31 December 2007 in income in equity subsidiaries movements differences 2007 statement m m m m m m m Intangible assets 34 33 22 23 Property, plant and equipment, and finance lease receivables 372 80 337 345 56 1,030 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 57 5 3 59 Derivative financial instruments 43 88 24 12 12 155 Employee benefits 25 2 3 24 Provisions 7 3 8 18 Tax losses 101 2 4 107 Other temporary differences 322 33 40 354 1 38 609 170 21 323 12 41 770 20 Inventories 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Plant spares 37 27 Fuel inventories 142 47 Consumables 96 76 Total inventories 275 150 Inventories with a carrying amount of 128 million 2007: 95 million are subject to fixed and floating charges of project finance facilities at various power plant subsidiaries.
These project finance facilities are non-recourse to International Power plc.
Included within cost of sales are 181 million 2007: 211 million of inventories recognised as an expense in the year.
Inventories with a carrying amount of 1 million 2007: 2 million were written down during the year and recorded as an expense in the income statement.
21 Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Trade receivables 264 221 Other receivables 243 198 Accrued income 352 213 Prepayments 90 81 Total trade and other receivables 949 713 Included in trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 218 million 2007: 81 million.
The Directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate to their fair value.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 134 International Power Annual Report 2008 21 Trade and other receivables continued Financial assets included in trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income are analysed as follows: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Retail Corporate Government Total Retail Corporate Government Total m m m m m m m m Not overdue 25 580 83 688 35 397 172 604 Up to 1 month past due 6 1 7 3 3 Between 1 and 3 months past due 5 2 12 19 2 2 Between 3 and 6 months past due 2 2 4 4 More than 6 months past due 4 9 2 15 19 19 At 31 December 42 592 97 731 44 416 172 632 Retail energy sales are those to residential, commercial, and industrial customers to cover end-use purposes.
This mostly comprises sales to customers of Simply Energy in South Australia and Victoria in Australia.
Corporate energy sales are principally to merchant trading counterparties in the wholesale power market and comprise electricity utility companies, who require energy to meet retail sales requirements, and market makers such as large investment banks.
In the preceding table, the term Government is used to describe customers who are either owned directly by government or the state, or are institutions backed by guarantees from government.
Sales to these customers are typically administered under long-term power purchase agreements.
Examples of such customers will include water and electricity authorities located in Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
The majority of the trade receivables, which are not overdue, relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
Corporate receivables more than six months overdue relate to contractual disputes where we have significant counter claims or offsetting liabilities.
The preceding table shows 43 million 6% of debtors are overdue and, of these, 36 million 5% relates to outstanding amounts greater than one month past due.
In respect of subsidiaries, for the year ended 31 December 2008, merchant trading and PPA counterparties have demonstrated a consistent payment history.
Trade receivables of 3 million were written off in 2008 relating to commodity receivables from Lehman Brothers 2007: nil.
Management maintain a bad debt provision appropriate to the limited likelihood of retail, merchant and PPA payment defaults.
Total trade and other receivables are stated net of the following provisions for irrecoverable amounts.
31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 23 23 Amounts provided for during the year 4 Amounts recovered during the year 3 At 31 December 24 23 Concentrations of credit risk relating to the Groups wholesale power sales are limited due to the diversity of unrelated customers for our power plants located worldwide.
For the Groups retail business in Australia, Simply Energy, concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being both large and unrelated.
PPAs and tolling agreements with major institutions can potentially have high concentration risk but this risk is mitigated by the diversity of similar arrangements within our worldwide portfolio.
Financial statements 135 22 Derivative financial instruments 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Energy derivatives 475 747 208 734 Interest rate swaps 226 30 24 Other derivatives 32 24 30 76 507 997 268 834 Analysed as: Derivative financial instruments not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 507 790 236 729 Derivative financial instruments designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 207 32 105 507 997 268 834 Current 477 544 223 508 Non-current 30 453 45 326 507 997 268 834 The description Energy derivatives pertains to commodity contracts which are used to fix the prices we achieve for electrical output from our power stations and the cost of fuel inputs to our power stations.
The Group utilises interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate exposures by swapping an element of its borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
As at 31 December 2008, the total notional value of interest rate swaps was 3,350 million 2007: 2,289 million.
The Group owns purchased call options over the equity of various energy related businesses.
The Group already has an equity interest in some of these businesses.
The Group has also issued convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc.
The conversion features in the 3.25% convertible euro bonds and the 4.75% convertible euro bonds are accounted for as embedded derivatives refer to note 24.
The Group sometimes utilises foreign currency exchange contracts to manage its foreign exchange rate exposures.
As at 31 December 2008, the total notional value of these contracts was 63 million 2007: 15 million and the mark to market was nil 2007: nil.
23 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Cash at bank 790 672 Short-term deposits 339 489 Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement 1,129 1,161 The total cash and cash equivalents balance includes 417 million 2007: 377 million of cash which is considered to be restricted as it is primarily to fund maintenance and debt service reserves required by project finance agreements, and for letters of credit.
Cash equivalents include an amount of 154 million 2007: 189 million held by counterparties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the Groups undrawn letter of credit facilities.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 136 International Power Annual Report 2008 24 Loans and bonds An analysis of the interest-bearing loans and bonds, which are measured at amortised cost, is as follows: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Face value Carrying Face value Carrying amount amount m m m m a Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 1 Secured bank loans 378 372 353 348 1 Secured bonds 17 17 12 12 395 389 365 360 Non-current liabilities 1 Secured bank loans 5,201 5,132 4,164 4,125 1 Secured bonds 691 738 634 682 5,892 5,870 4,798 4,807 Total secured interest-bearing loans and bonds 6,287 6,259 5,163 5,167 b Unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 29 29 4 4 2 Loans from minority interests 3 3 24 24 3 Preferred equity facility 151 151 32 32 179 179 Non-current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 173 172 132 131 2 Loans from minority interests 84 84 91 91 4 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023 159 149 127 115 5 3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013 222 191 169 140 6 4.75% Convertible euro bonds 2015 677 560 1,315 1,156 519 477 Total unsecured interest-bearing loans and bonds 1,347 1,188 698 656 c Total interest-bearing loans and bonds Current liabilities 427 421 544 539 Non-current liabilities 7,207 7,026 5,317 5,284 Total interest-bearing loans and bonds 7,634 7,447 5,861 5,823 A description of the foregoing items is as follows: 1 Secured interest-bearing loans and bonds Secured bank loans comprise amounts borrowed from commercial banks.
Secured bonds comprise those relating to the financing of First Hydro and the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
The bank loans and bonds with a carrying amount of 6,259 million 2007: 5,167 million are secured by fixed and floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
With the exception of the convertible bonds, which are recourse, substantially all of the Groups power stations, generating assets and other operating assets are financed under facilities which are non-recourse to International Power plc and secured solely on the assets of the subsidiary concerned.
The Group had no significant borrowings in default as at 31 December 2008.
Although not in default of principal or interest payment terms, at 31 December 2007 the Group had borrowings of 62 million in technical default which could have allowed the lender to demand accelerated repayment of the loan.
At 31 December 2007 the loan was classified as a current liability on the balance sheet.
The technical defaults were cured during the first quarter of 2008.
2 Loans from minority interests Loans from minority interests comprise both term loans and working capital facilities provided by minority shareholders in subsidiaries.
These loans and working capital facilities are provided on an unsecured basis for various maturity periods and have interest terms based on fixed or floating rates as specified in each individual agreement.
Financial statements 137 3 Preferred equity facility The preferred equity facility comprised US$300 million in preference shares which were issued by Impala Magpie Limited to Mitsui Power Ventures Limited for the purposes of financing the acquisition of the EME portfolio which was completed in December 2004.
Impala Magpie Limited is a 70% owned subsidiary of International Power plc and Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mitsui & Co of Japan.
Mitsui Power Ventures Limited is International Powers partner in IPM Eagle LLP, which is the owner of assets formerly owned by Edison Mission Energy, and IPM UK Power Holdings Limited, which is the owner of certain UK generating assets.
The preference shares entitled the holder to a preferred dividend coupon of US dollar LIBOR plus 2%.
The preference shares were redeemed in September 2008.
4 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023 On 22 August 2003, International Power Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued US$252.5 million 3.75% convertible bonds due 2023, convertible into preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 163p at any time up to 12 August 2023.
Each US$1,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a US$1,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited.
The bonds may be redeemed at the holders option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
During 2008, 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 with a par value of 12 million US$24 million were redeemed through the issue of preference shares in International Power Jersey Limited and the subsequent issue of Ordinary Shares in International Power plc.
The convertible bonds mature in August 2023 but with bondholders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013 and 2018.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 22 August 2023 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
Following the extinguishment of a cash settlement option on 17 January 2005, the remaining conversion feature, being an equity call option held by the bondholders was recognised in equity.
The remaining debt element of the convertible bond accretes to par value over the life of the bond at a constant periodic rate based on its carrying amount.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 7.4%.
This includes a coupon interest rate of 3.75% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 at 31 December 2008 to be approximately 146 million 31 December 2007: 122 million.
This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2008.
5 3.25% Convertible euro bonds 2013 On 20 July 2006, International Power Finance Jersey II Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued 230 million 3.25% convertible bonds due 2013, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 370p at any time up to 20 July 2013.
Each 50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a 50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 20 July 2013 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bond have been split between the debt element and an embedded derivative component.
This embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 6.64%.
This includes a coupon interest rate of 3.25% per annum.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 at 31 December 2008 to be approximately 147 million 31 December 2007: 137 million.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 138 International Power Annual Report 2008 24 Loans and bonds continued 6 4.75% Convertible euro bonds 2015 On 5 June 2008, International Power Finance Jersey III Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued e700 million 4.75% convertible bonds due 2015, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey III Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for Ordinary Shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 561p with effect from 16 July 2008 up to 26 May 2015.
Each e50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a e50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey III Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 5 June 2015 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the convertible bonds have been split between the debt component and an embedded derivative component.
The debt component is presented as a liability on the balance sheet as part of loans and bonds.
31 December 2008 m Net proceeds of convertible euro bonds issued 550 Embedded derivative component at date of issue 96 Debt component at date of issue 454 Accretion included in interest payable to 31 December 2008 6 Exchange differences 100 Debt component at 31 December 2008 560 The interest charged during the year comprises two components: a coupon of 4.75% and accretion on the debt component set out above.
The overall effective interest rate is 8.44%.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the liability component of the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 at 31 December 2008 to be approximately 400 million.
Hedge of net investment in overseas operations The Group has loans denominated in foreign currencies that have been designated as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations in Europe and Australia.
The value of these non-derivative financial liabilities, used as hedging instruments, at the balance sheet date was: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Euro 773 165 Australian dollar 38 38 811 203 The foreign exchange loss of 155 million 2007: 17 million on retranslation of these loans has been recognised directly in equity on consolidation.
Financial statements 139 Maturity of borrowings The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest coupons, relating to loans and bonds and a reconciliation from total undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts: 31 December 2008 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Secured bank loans 672 1,392 2,659 2,306 7,029 75 1,450 5,504 Unsecured bank loans 38 34 152 3 227 1 25 201 Secured bonds 69 69 202 969 1,309 554 755 Loans from minority interests 10 7 96 1 114 27 87 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 6 6 18 218 248 1 98 149 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 7 7 244 258 2 65 191 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 32 32 96 726 886 8 318 560 834 1,547 3,467 4,223 10,071 87 2,537 7,447 31 December 2007 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Secured bank loans 517 591 2,480 2,220 5,808 49 1,286 4,473 Unsecured bank loans 11 12 143 2 168 1 32 135 Secured bonds 73 61 180 995 1,309 2 613 694 Loans from minority interests 41 17 150 208 93 115 Preferred equity facility 167 167 16 151 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 6 5 14 178 203 1 87 115 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 8 5 17 172 202 2 60 140 823 691 2,984 3,567 8,065 55 2,187 5,823 Other non-cash items represent debt issue costs.
The above tables assume the convertible bonds are redeemed by the payment of cash at maturity.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 140 International Power Annual Report 2008 25 Net debt 1 January On acquisition Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December 2008 of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2008 excluding cash movements m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 169 137 1,129 Loans due within one year 376 4 46 70 404 Loans due after more than one year 4,347 2 8 42 1,073 5,388 Secured bonds due within one year 12 1 4 17 Secured bonds due after more than one year 682 4 14 74 738 Preferred equity facility 151 162 11 Convertible bonds 255 4 454 187 900 Total debt 5,823 2 12 191 1,419 7,447 Net debt 4,662 2 12 360 1,282 6,318 1 January On acquisition Other Cash flow Exchange 31 December 2007 of subsidiaries non-cash differences 2007 excluding cash movements m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 980 165 16 1,161 Assets held for trading 42 1 44 1 Total funds 1,022 1 121 17 1,161 Loans due within one year 231 68 67 10 376 Loans due after more than one year 3,290 693 11 167 186 4,347 Secured bonds due within one year 10 1 1 12 Secured bonds due after more than one year 677 2 12 19 682 Preferred equity facility 152 1 2 151 Convertible bonds 237 9 9 255 Total debt 4,597 761 19 223 223 5,823 Net debt 3,575 761 18 102 206 4,662 Included within other non-cash movements is the accretion of the carrying amount of the convertible bonds and amortisation of debt issue costs and fair value adjustments.
In 2008 they also include the issue of shares on redemption of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023.
26 Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Trade payables 160 184 Other payables 268 252 Accruals 443 249 Deferred income 23 35 Total trade and other payables 894 720 Included in trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 62 million 2007: 71 million.
The Directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate to their fair value.
All trade and other payables above are expected to fall due within one year.
Financial statements 141 27 Provisions Commodity Leave Site Other Total contracts provisions restoration m m m m m At 1 January 2008 99 19 21 42 181 Acquisitions 3 3 Provisions made during the year 7 7 10 24 Provisions utilised during the year 71 4 1 21 97 Unwinding discount 1 1 2 Exchange differences 18 2 4 4 28 At 31 December 2008 49 25 32 35 141 Analysed as: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Current liabilities 69 83 Non-current liabilities 72 98 Total provisions 141 181 Financial liabilities 48 70 Non-financial liabilities 93 111 Total provisions 141 181 The carrying amount of existing commodity contracts brought forward from 2007 relate to out of the money power sales contracts acquired as part of the acquisition of Coleto Creek in 2006.
When the provision is utilised it is credited to revenue in the income statement.
This provision is expected to be mostly utilised by 2010.
Commodity contracts added in 2008 relate to out of the money capacity contracts acquired as part of the portfolio of North American peaking plants refer to note 30a.
Most of this provision will unwind during 2009 and will be credited to revenue in the income statement.
The other provisions made during the year principally relate to payments received and booked as revenue, subsequently against which a claim has been made.
In 2007, the other provisions principally related to onerous property leases and disputed contractual amounts and penalties.
9 million has been utilised during the year in order to extinguish the liability relating to the expected vacancy period for leased premises at Senator House.
The remaining provisions are not expected to require settlement in the short-term.
The Directors are uncertain as to the timing of when these provisions will be utilised.
28 Share-based payments a Number of shares and exercise prices under Share Option Plans The Group operates the following employee share plans for which shares may be issued by the Group out of authorised but unissued share capital upon exercise of employee share options: the UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan: the UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans, the Global Executive Share Option Plan and the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
The total number of options and conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company outstanding at the end of the year was as follows: Option price range Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Sharesave Plans 97.93p-389.00p 2007-2014 5,852,924 6,429,720 Executive Share Option Plans 62.32p-388.25p 2001-2018 13,145,095 14,695,753 Total options outstanding 18,998,019 21,125,473 2002 Performance Share Plan 6,274,801 6,273,444 Total Ordinary Shares subject to employee share plans 25,272,820 27,398,917 Details of each plan are set out on the following pages.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 142 International Power Annual Report 2008 28 Share-based payments continued i Sharesave Plans The UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan are savings related and enable employees in the UK and a number of other jurisdictions to invest up to a maximum of 250 or foreign currency equivalent per month for the purpose of acquiring shares in the Group.
The option prices are fixed at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as at the date of grant of the option.
Options are exercisable at the prices set out below.
The option exercise period commences either three or five years after the option has been granted determined at the time that the employee enters into the savings agreement and if the options remain unexercised after a period of six months following the beginning of the option exercise period, the options expire.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences.
Details of the share options outstanding at the end of the year are as follows: Option price Date exercisable Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 80.12p 2007-2008 1,985,637 97.93p 2008-2009 55,020 69,582 70.33p 2008 570,644 97.93p 2009 83,163 99,331 200.00p 2009 1,235,737 1,314,025 200.00p 2011 1,008,657 1,035,019 389.00p 2011 369,742 606,225 389.00p 2013 496,149 749,257 262.00p 2012 1,151,556 262.00p 2014 1,452,900 5,852,924 6,429,720 The number and weighted average exercise prices of the Sharesave Plan share options are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2008 Year ended 31 December 2007 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted Ordinary average Ordinary average Shares exercise price Shares exercise price in pence in pence Options outstanding at beginning of the year 6,429,720 188.63 6,021,436 129.15 Granted during the year 2,626,582 262.00 1,365,425 389.00 Exercised during the year 2,551,389 78.88 830,476 87.10 Expired during the year 34,708 70.78 Forfeited during the year 617,281 349.41 126,665 186.68 Options outstanding at end of the year 5,852,924 253.14 6,429,720 188.63 Options exercisable at end of the year 55,020 1,985,637 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Sharesave Plan share options exercised during the year was 422.07 pence 2007: 435.21 pence.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 97.93 pence to 389.00 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 3.2 years 2007: 2.2 years.
Financial statements 143 ii Executive Share Option Plans The UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan are discretionary employee share option plans.
Options are granted to those employees selected to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Directors of the Company.
The exercise price of the options is fixed at the market value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as at the date that the options are granted.
The option exercise period is between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant of the options and if the options are not exercised before the expiry of the tenth anniversary of the date of grant then the options lapse.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences or if the employee resigns from the Company.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for Executive Share Options exercised during the year was 417.67 pence 2007: 407.32 pence.
The share options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices in a range from 62.32 pence to 388.25 pence as outlined in the table above.
For these share options outstanding at the end of the year the weighted average remaining contractual life is 6.3 years 2007: 6.6 years.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 144 International Power Annual Report 2008 28 Share-based payments continued iii 2002 Performance Share Plan The 2002 Performance Share Plan is a discretionary employee share plan.
Under this plan, Directors and certain senior managers of the Group are awarded conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company.
These conditional awards may vest three years after the awards have been made subject to the satisfactory performance of a performance condition determined at the time that the conditional awards are made which relates to growth in normalised earnings per share and total shareholder return.
Details of the conditional awards over Ordinary Shares arising from the 2002 Performance Share Plan at the end of the year are as follows: Vesting year Number of Ordinary Shares 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 2008 1,912,237 2009 2,172,504 2,342,787 2010 1,878,772 2,018,420 2011 2,223,525 6,274,801 6,273,444 The number of conditional rights over Ordinary Shares are as follows: Number of Ordinary Shares Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Awards outstanding at the beginning of the year 6,273,444 6,472,594 Conditional awards made during the year 2,327,229 2,039,669 Released during the year 1,875,661 2,217,570 Forfeited during the year 450,211 21,249 Awards outstanding at end of the year 6,274,801 6,273,444 iv 2002 Performance Share Plan Employee Share Ownership Trust Option In 2003 the Group granted to the Trustee of the International Power Employee Share Ownership Trust an option to acquire 3,807,057 Ordinary Shares in the Company at an option price of 84 pence per share.
Following a rights issue in 2004, the number of shares under option was increased to 4,276,215 and the option exercise price was adjusted to 74.79 pence per share.
This option could only be exercised to the extent required to satisfy conditional awards made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
These conditional awards can only vest after the end of the relevant performance period and only to the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied.
During 2006 the Trustee exercised this option to the extent of 3,046,107 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards released in March 2006.
During 2007 the Trustee exercised this option over the remaining 1,230,108 shares in respect of Performance Share Plan awards released in March 2007. b Fair value of options under Share Option Plans i Sharesave Plans The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 39 pence per share 2007: 136 pence per share.
These fair values were calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Weighted average share price 220p 473p Weighted average exercise price 262p 389p Expected volatility 30% 25% Expected life 5 years 4 years Risk free rate 4.28% 4.44% Expected dividend yield 3.13% 2.70% ii Executive Share Option Plans The estimated fair value of the options granted during the year was 71 pence per share 2007: 76 pence per share.
The inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Weighted average share price 381p 384p Weighted average exercise price 370p 388p Expected volatility 25% 25% Expected life 4 years 4 years Risk free rate 3.87% 5.11% Expected dividend yield 3.13% 2.70% Financial statements 145 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous six years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
iii 2002 Performance Share Plan For conditional awards made under the 2002 Performance Share Plan, without market-related performance condition, the fair values have been calculated as the face values of the award, discounted for the non-entitlement to dividends during the vesting period.
Where conditional awards contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo simulation method.
Inputs into the model were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 Risk free rate 3.89% 5.18% Expected dividend yield 3.13% 2.70% The estimated fair value of conditional awards over Ordinary Shares in the Company granted during the year was 247 pence per share 2007: 275 pence per share.
29 Share capital and reserves a Share capital Authorised Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p Number m Number m At 1 January 2008 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751 Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan 3,400,824 2 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 2,551,389 1 Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan 1,621,671 1 Issue of shares under 3.75% Convertible US dollar bonds 2023 9,219,227 4 At 31 December 2008 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,518,732,624 759 Authorised Issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares of 50p Ordinary Shares of 50p Number m Number m At 1 January 2007 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,492,052,910 746 Issue of shares under Executive Share Option Plan 7,826,019 4 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 830,476 Issue of shares under Performance Share Plan 1,230,108 1 At 31 December 2007 2,266,000,000 1,133 1,501,939,513 751 Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares rank equally between each other with regard to voting rights, the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll, every shareholder present in person or proxy has one vote in respect of every share held.
Deferred Shares The Company has 21 Deferred Shares of 1 penny each in issue.
These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power and Innogy in 2000 was effected as efficiently as possible.
The holders of Deferred Shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting.
Unclassified share Further to the redemption of the Special Share in August 2000, the Companys authorised share capital includes one unclassified share of 1.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 146 International Power Annual Report 2008 29 Share capital and reserves continued b Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable Share Capital to equity Share premium redemption Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained holders of Minority capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings the parent interests Total m m m m m m m m m m m Net loss on cash flow hedges 251 251 19 270 Exchange losses recognised on net investment hedges 152 152 3 155 Exchange losses gains arising on translation of foreign operations 76 994 918 29 947 Revaluation reserve transfer 7 7 Tax on items taken directly to equity 35 18 17 1 18 Net income loss recognised directly in equity 7 292 824 7 532 8 540 Profit for the year 667 667 92 759 Total recognised income and expense for the year 7 292 824 660 1,199 100 1,299 Issue of shares 8 20 28 28 Acquisition of minority interests 54 54 Equity investment by minority interest 49 49 Distributions 166 166 21 187 Other movements 7 7 7 Total movements during the year 8 20 7 292 824 487 1,054 74 1,128 At 1 January 2008 751 411 145 422 9 84 35 1,173 2,844 163 3,007 At 31 December 2008 759 431 145 422 2 376 859 1,660 3,898 237 4,135 Attributable Share Capital to equity Share premium redemption Capital Revaluation Hedging Translation Retained holders of Minority capital account reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve earnings the parent interests Total m m m m m m m m m m m Net loss on cash flow hedges 111 111 11 122 Revaluation deficit on step acquisition 12 12 12 Exchange losses recognised on net investment hedges 15 15 2 17 Exchange losses gains arising on translation of foreign operations 1 3 132 128 9 137 Tax on items taken directly to equity 4 24 4 24 1 23 Net loss income recognised directly in equity 9 90 113 14 5 9 Profit for the year 503 503 26 529 Total recognised income and expense for the year 9 90 113 503 517 21 538 Issue of shares 5 9 14 14 Acquisitions and disposals of minority interests 101 101 Distributions 160 160 35 195 Other movements 11 11 11 Total movements during the year 5 9 9 90 113 354 382 115 267 At 1 January 2007 746 402 145 422 6 78 819 2,462 278 2,740 At 31 December 2007 751 411 145 422 9 84 35 1,173 2,844 163 3,007 Financial statements 147 The share capital represents the authorised Ordinary Shares in the Company issued at par which carry a right to participate in the distribution of dividends or capital of the Company.
The Company operates two separate Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs in which shares may be held for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the Companys 2002 Performance Share Plan.
During the year 1,621,671 shares 2007: 1,230,108 shares were issued and placed into trust.
At 31 December 2008, these ESOTs held nil shares 2007: 253,990.
The market value of shares held in trust at 31 December 2008 is nil 2007: 1,151,845.
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
The capital redemption reserve was created in March 1995 when the Company purchased and then cancelled approximately 98 million of its Ordinary Shares in conjunction with HM Treasurys sale of its remaining 40% shareholding in the Company.
The reserve was subsequently increased in the years ended 31 March 1996, 31 March 2000 and 31 December 2003 when further share purchases were made and these shares were cancelled.
The capital redemption reserve is not distributable.
The capital reserve was vested in the Company at 31 March 1990 under the Transfer Scheme whereby the net assets of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB were divided among the CEGB successor companies.
The revaluation reserve comprises the deficit arising from the revaluation of certain intangible assets as part of the step acquisition of Simply Energy on 16 August 2007.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred and to cumulative gains and losses on hedging instruments that no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, until the forecast transaction occurs.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in foreign operations refer to note 31d.
Retained earnings represent total income and expense in the current and prior years attributable to equity holders of the parent, less cumulative dividends to shareholders, and other movements relating to, for example, share based payments and transfers from the revaluation reserve.
599 million 2007: 424 million of the Groups retained earnings is not distributable as it arose from unrealised gains on intra-group transactions.
30 Acquisitions and disposals a Portfolio of North American Peaking Plants On 29 July 2008, IPA Central LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Power plc, completed the purchase of 100% of the voting partnership capital of Armstrong Energy Limited Partnership LLLP, and 100% of the voting share capital of Pleasants Energy LLC, Troy Energy LLC and Calumet Energy Team LLC.
These entities between them own a 1,857MW portfolio of peaking generation facilities, located in the US in Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland, and Midwest Independent System Operator power pools.
The purchase price was US$864 million 436 million.
The results of these entities have been consolidated as subsidiaries with effect from 29 July 2008 using the acquisition method.
The details of the transaction, results and provisional fair value adjustments arising from the change in ownership are shown below: Acquirees Fair value Fair value carrying adjustments to the amount Group m m m Property, plant and equipment 134 346 480 Inventories 12 5 17 Trade and other receivables 4 4 Derivative financial assets 6 6 Trade and other payables 1 1 Provisions 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 67 67 Net assets acquired 156 280 436 Satisfied by: Cash consideration paid 434 Acquisition costs 2 Net cash outflow to the Group 436 Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 148 International Power Annual Report 2008 30 Acquisitions and disposals continued In the period from 29 July 2008 to 31 December 2008 the portfolio of peaking plants contributed 19 million of revenue and 5 million to the Groups profit from operations excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements it contributed to the Group 17 million of revenue and 2 million of profit from operations.
The portfolio of peaking plants also contributed 10 million to the Groups net operating cash flows and paid 7 million in respect of net interest and nil in respect of tax.
The fair value adjustments are made to reflect the fair value of net assets acquired.
These principally represent the fair valuation of property, plant and equipment based on an analysis of depreciated replacement costs and discounted cash flows pertaining to the power plants: the revaluation of fuel stocks to market prices, and the creation of an onerous contract provision relating to out of the money capacity contracts.
Deferred tax is also recognised for the temporary difference created by the fair value adjustments.
The Group employed a professional firm of valuers to perform the fair valuation exercise.
Due to the complexity of the acquisition the fair values attributed to the acquired assets and liabilities are provisional and may be revised.
If the acquisition of the portfolio of peaking plants had taken place on 1 January 2008 the portfolio would have contributed 37 million of revenue and Group revenue would have been 3,500 million and 7 million of profit from operations and Group profit from operations would have been 1,052 million, both excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements the portfolio would have contributed 35 million of revenue and Group revenue would have been 3,839 million and 4 million of profit from operations and Group profit from operations would have been 1,158 million.
b Turbogs Produtora Energtica SA On 5 June 2008, International Power acquired an additional 40% shareholding in Turbogs Produtora Energtica SA and an additional 27% shareholding in the associated operations and maintenance company Portugen Energia SA for total cash consideration of 127 million 101 million.
International Power now owns 100% of both Turbogs Produtora Energtica SA and Portugen Energia SA.
c Small European wind farms and solar projects International Power has acquired the following voting equity share capital for 2 million: In July 2008, 100% of the equity share capital of a business which owns 1.6MW of operational solar panels, located in Spain: In August 2008, 75% of the equity share capital of the PEG 30MW wind farm under construction, located in Italy.
d Uch Power On 19 March 2008, International Power acquired an additional 31% shareholding in the Uch Power project and rights to related service fee income payable by the project company.
Following receipts out of the project and consequential deferred consideration, total cash consideration was US$93 million 47 million.
The acquisition takes the Groups total holding in the Uch Power project to 71%.
International Power accounts for its interest in Uch Power Pvt Limited as a jointly controlled entity, using the equity method, due to the joint control of its activities exerted by its shareholders.
e T-Power On 16 December 2008, International Power acquired a third of the equity of Tessenderlo Power T-Power, a 420MW CCGT greenfield project in Tessenderlo, Belgium.
International Power purchased its equity in the project from Advanced Power AG who were a co-developer in the T-Power project until financial close, which was achieved on 18 December 2008.
The plant will be constructed by Siemens under a full turnkey EPC contract.
Once operational in 2011, the output from the new plant will be sold under a 15-year tolling agreement with a 5-year extension option.
T-Power is accounted for using the equity method.
f Acquisitions during 2007 Maestrale fair value hindsight adjustments The fair values of certain assets and liabilities associated with the purchase of the Maestrale portfolio of onshore wind farms, predominantly located in Italy and Germany, which took place in August 2007 have been revised.
This follows the conclusion of an independent third party fair valuation exercise commissioned during 2007 and finalised during 2008.
As a result of the finalisation of the valuation, the following changes have been made to the acquired assets and liabilities.
The fair value of inventories and trade and other receivables have been reduced from 16 million and 213 million to 9 million and 192 million respectively.
The fair value of trade and other payables and provisions have increased from 125 million and 5 million to 140 million and 15 million respectively.
Changes to deferred tax adjustments have also been applied.
There has been no change in goodwill arising from these adjustments.
Financial statements 149 31 Financial instruments a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by category of the carrying amounts and fair values of all the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2008: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount amount m m m m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1,129 1,129 1,161 1,161 Available-for-sale: 1 Other investments 47 47 13 13 Loans and receivables: 2 Finance lease receivables 1,727 1,724 1,293 1,226 Other long-term receivables 124 124 69 69 3 Trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income 731 731 632 632 At fair value through profit or loss: 4 Derivative financial assets not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 507 507 236 236 Designated cash flow hedge relationships: 4 Derivative financial assets designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 32 32 Total financial assets 4,265 4,262 3,436 3,369 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: 5 Trade payables, other payables and accruals current 832 832 649 649 6 Other payables non-current 44 44 30 30 7 Secured bank loans 5,504 5,464 4,473 4,473 7 Unsecured bank loans 201 201 135 135 7 Secured bonds 755 638 694 749 7 Preferred equity facility 151 151 7 Convertible bonds 900 693 255 259 7 Loans from minority interests 87 87 115 115 8 Provisions 48 48 70 70 At fair value through profit or loss: 4 Derivative financial liabilities not designated in a cash flow hedge relationship 790 790 729 729 Designated cash flow hedge relationships: 4 Derivative financial liabilities designated and effective as cash flow hedging instruments 207 207 105 105 Total financial liabilities 9,368 9,004 7,406 7,465 The Group has no financial assets or financial liabilities which have been designated at fair value through profit or loss at initial recognition.
The methods and assumptions used to estimate fair values of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 1 O ther investments comprise minority shareholdings held in privately owned, unquoted companies as well as debt instruments where there is no active market available to value them.
Where the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be reliably measured, the fair value shown is recorded at cost.
The debt instruments are stated at fair value based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows.
2 The fair value of finance lease receivables and other long-term receivables have been calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows.
Discount rates in the range of 6% to 8% 2007: 4% to 10% have been applied.
3 D ue to their short maturities, the fair values of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income have been stated at their book values.
4 F air values of derivative financial instruments: E nergy derivatives are measured by reference to forward price curves using discounted cash flows and other similar quantification techniques.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities at future dates.
An electricity price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over the short-term horizon period, and from valuation techniques over the more distant horizon period.
Discount rates in the range of 6% to 9% 2007: 7% to 10% have been applied.
The prices in the distant horizon period are determined by reference to long-term market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
I nterest rate swaps are measured by reference to both third party bank confirmations and discounted cash flows using the yield curves and spot rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
T he fair value of the Groups foreign currency and equity conversion options have also been measured by reference to third party bank confirmations and through calculations using market rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
5 Due to their short maturities, the fair values of trade payables, other payables and accruals have been stated at their book values.
6 The fair value of other payables non-current have been calculated by discounting estimated future cash flows.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 150 International Power Annual Report 2008 31 Financial instruments continued 7 The fair values of all bank loans, bonds, convertible bonds, the preferred equity facility and loans from minority interests have been calculated using market prices where available or the present value of estimated future cash flows.
Discount rates in the range of 5% to 15% 2007: 4% to 15% have been applied.
8 Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Consequently the fair value has been presented as book value.
Discount rates in the range of 5% to 9% 2007: 5% to 6% have been applied.
As explained in 4 on the previous page, prices for valuing energy derivatives outside of an active market are derived from long-term assumptions.
Changes to these long-term assumptions could have a significant impact on the modelled price.
For example, reasonable increases in the assumed cost of construction could increase modelled long-term power prices in the order of 10%, while reasonable variations in the assumed long-term cost of oil could have an impact in the order of 30% on modelled long-term power prices.
Most of our energy derivatives settle within the period covered by an active market and hence these variations in long-term price assumptions have a limited impact on our derivative valuations.
We have one long-term derivative contract for power, which was acquired with the Loy Yang B plant in Australia.
The contract is open until 2016.
Reasonable changes in assumed construction costs could affect the value of this derivative in the order of A$30 million.
Changes in the long-term cost of oil are less significant, since energy prices in Australia are currently not closely linked to world oil prices.
Refer to note 31f i for sensitivity analysis and note 38, Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, for further information on the valuation techniques used and the assumptions applied in determining the fair values of financial assets and liabilities.
b Derivative financial instruments The following table discloses the carrying amount of financial instruments, which are carried at fair value in the balance sheet, that have been valued using a technique based on market observable inputs and those that have been valued using non-market observable inputs: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Valuation Valuation Valuation Valuation technique technique technique technique market non-market market non-market observable observable observable observable inputs inputs inputs inputs Derivative financial assets Carrying amount m 444 63 234 34 Percentage of total carrying amount 88% 12% 87% 13% Derivative financial liabilities Carrying amount m 766 231 681 153 Percentage of total carrying amount 77% 23% 82% 18% 322 168 447 119 In the merchant markets of Australia, the US and the UK, market observable inputs are usually defined as published forward curves.
Typically, observable market data for forward power prices is available in the US and the UK for two years.
Due to uncertainties surrounding the impact of the introduction of the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme, observable market data in Australia is available for 18 months.
For interest rate swaps all forward rates are deemed to be from observable markets.
Non-market observable inputs are typically defined as price forecasts for a particular commodity, which are derived from the Groups in-house modelling.
Non-market observable inputs are not published and often form part of a valuation technique when a forward curve is deemed illiquid.
A number of modelling techniques exist to generate these forecasts, but a standard approach that the Group follows for valuing forward power sales is to look at the economics of a new-entrant power plant.
When a new-entrant is believed to be required in a particular market, the long-term power price assumed will cover the new-entrants cost and target return.
That is, power prices reflect the new-entrant cost level from this particular point.
As explained on pages 18 to 27 of the business and financial review, the Groups policy is to hedge various exposures.
Energy price risk: We use commodity contracts to fix the prices we achieve for the electrical output from our power stations and the cost of fuel inputs to our power stations.
In the presentation which follows, we group the financial products and commodity contracts used for this purpose, which are classified as derivatives, under the heading Energy derivatives.
Interest rate risk: Principally we use pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps.
We also use options and forward rate agreements.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading Interest rate swaps.
Foreign currency risk: For structural and transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use foreign currency borrowings, forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
For the purposes of presentation which follows, we group these derivative financial instruments under the heading Other derivatives.
This category also encompasses options over equity.
The Group has convertible bonds which can convert into Ordinary Shares of International Power plc.
The conversion feature in the 3.25% convertible euro bond and the 4.75% convertible euro bond are accounted for as embedded derivatives refer to note 24.
Financial statements 151 The carrying amount of these derivative financial instruments at the reporting date and whether these derivatives are designated in a formal hedging relationship is analysed as follows: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Cash flow hedges Energy derivatives 8 81 Interest rate swaps 207 24 24 207 32 105 Not designated in a qualifying hedge relationship Energy derivatives 475 747 200 653 Interest rate swaps 19 6 Other derivatives 32 24 30 76 507 790 236 729 507 997 268 834 Analysed as: Current 477 544 223 508 Non-current 30 453 45 326 507 997 268 834 On 1 January 2008 the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchases of fuel.
For existing cash flow hedges at that time, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain separately recognised in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Fair value gains and losses after the date of fide-designation as cash flow hedges are recorded in the income statement.
The following table shows the carrying amounts, net gains and losses, cash flows and other movements relating to the Groups derivative financial instruments and where the movements in the income statement are recorded.
31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Energy Interest rate Other Total Energy Interest rate Other Total derivatives swaps derivatives derivatives swaps derivatives m m m m m m m m At 1 January 526 6 46 566 126 6 29 149 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised in: revenue 339 339 387 387 cost of sales 167 167 45 45 interest 23 150 127 1 17 16 Other movements in the income statement 3 3 24 3 27 Movement in the hedging reserve 71 174 103 85 10 95 Cash flow 37 96 59 8 8 Acquisitions 6 6 40 4 44 Exchange differences 29 35 64 29 2 27 At 31 December 272 226 8 490 526 6 46 566 Other movements in the income statement comprise mark to market movements on proprietary trading activities, i. e. on non-asset backed trades, and the amortisation of derivatives acquired with a fair value other than zero.
Mark to market movements on asset backed hedges are included within specific IAS 39 mark to market movements refer to note 1d.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 152 International Power Annual Report 2008 31 Financial instruments continued c Cash flow hedging reserve movements The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year, including where gains and losses have been recognised in the income statement.
31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Energy Interest rate Total Energy Interest rate Total derivatives swaps derivatives swaps m m m m m m At 1 January 56 28 84 3 3 6 Gains losses recognised in the hedging reserve during the year 4 267 263 32 35 67 Gains losses arising in previous years that reversed during the year 44 3 47 22 1 21 Amount removed from hedging reserve and included within the income statement during the year due to settlement of contracts.
Recognised in: Group revenue 6 6 95 95 Share of joint ventures and associates 9 9 2 2 Net finance costs 3 3 3 3 Cash settlement of derivatives during the year 6 6 12 95 1 94 Ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 1 1 Exchange differences 4 72 76 6 3 3 At 31 December 12 364 376 56 28 84 The cash flow hedging reserve balance and the periods in which the cash flows are expected to occur are as follows: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Energy Interest rate Total Energy Interest rate Total derivatives swaps derivatives swaps m m m m m m Cash flows expected in: Less than 12 months 10 83 93 42 2 44 1-2 years 2 72 74 11 12 23 2-5 years 94 94 3 11 14 More than 5 years 115 115 3 3 Unrecognised losses at 31 December 12 364 376 56 28 84 The amounts shown in the preceding table are expected to affect profit or loss in the same period as the cash flows.
d Hedge of a net investment An economic net investment exposure arises from foreign currency movements when the functional currency of a subsidiary differs from the parents.
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency of the net investment and that of its parent will cause the amount of the net investment to vary.
In the absence of hedge accounting, foreign exchange gains and losses on retranslating the net assets of a foreign operation would be taken to reserves, whilst those on the loan would be recognised in the income statement.
This creates a mismatch in foreign currency translation.
When net investment hedging is applied, this mismatch is eliminated.
The Group, as part of its hedging strategy, has therefore chosen to borrow some debt denominated in foreign currencies in order to hedge the net investments in certain foreign operations within its portfolio.
As the hedging instruments are foreign currency borrowings rather than derivatives, no fair values for these instruments are included within the fair value of derivatives disclosed on the balance sheet.
Gains and losses recognised in the translation reserve for hedges of net investments are shown in notes 24 and 29.
Financial statements 153 e Risk identification and risk management There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
It has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and other mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures are consistent with the Groups strategy and objectives.
Assessments are conducted for all material entities.
The Group owns power plants in various locations around the world including merchant markets in the US, Australia and Europe.
Plant ownership in the merchant markets exposes the Group to highly volatile and unpredictable commodity prices including those relating to power and gas and trading and risk management teams exist in each region to manage the exposure by trading a range of products including physical and financial forwards and futures.
A Global Commodities Risk Committee together with the regional risk management teams are responsible for ensuring an adequate risk framework is in place in each region.
Local risk committees operate in each region and they are responsible for ensuring that the risk framework is applied and that they manage their respective positions in compliance with these Board approved limits.
Treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial resources are available for the management and development of the Groups business whilst managing its market risks and credit risks.
The Groups treasury policy is not to engage in speculative transactions.
Group treasury acts within clearly defined guidelines that are approved by the Board.
The capital structure of the Group is presented in the balance sheet.
Note 29 provides details on equity, note 24 on loans and bonds and note 31i on borrowing facilities.
Short and medium-term funding requirements are provided by a variety of loan facilities with a range of counterparties and maturities.
Longer term funding or funding for a particularly large transaction may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by raising additional equity.
Identification of total funding and phasing is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
Project development activities can, on occasion, require credit support in the normal course of business.
This is provided by established funding facilities or via additional bilateral facilities with related project banks.
At the individual business level we finance our projects with non-recourse debt in order to insulate the Group from adverse events at the project level, limiting our balance sheet exposure to a given project to the loss of the equity in that project.
Credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties is managed within clearly defined limits, policies and procedures.
Financial counterparty risk is restricted to arrangements with relationship banks, money market funds and commercial paper with investment grade ratings.
In addition to credit assessments from rating agencies, the Group utilises local market knowledge, credit default swap pricing and independent financial reviews to monitor counterparty credit risk and, if considered necessary, take proactive measures to reduce credit exposure in specific situations.
All credit exposures are monitored daily by local regional management and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
f Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
The Group is exposed to changes in: commodity prices in the merchant markets in which it operates: interest rates: and foreign currency exchange rates.
A significant number of the Groups projects operate without power purchase agreements and are, therefore, vulnerable to market forces which determine the price and amounts of power sold and fuel purchased.
In particular, the majority of our plants in the UK within our Europe region, North America, and Australia, operate on a merchant basis.
i Energy trading and market risk The Group hedges exposures that arise from the ownership and operation of power plants and related sales purchases of electricity and fuel by using derivatives to optimise the return achieved from these assets.
The Group uses commodity derivative financial instruments to convert floating or indexed electricity and fuel prices to fixed prices.
This lessens the Groups vulnerability to movements in prices for the electricity it generates and for the fuel it consumes in its power plants.
Commodity derivative financial instruments also provide a way to meet customers pricing requirements while achieving a price structure consistent with the Groups overall pricing strategy.
The Groups trading operations are carried out subject to global and local policies and procedures.
A similar structure is in place in each region covering monetary, volumetric and term limits.
Metrics and limits applied to the trading books include Value-at-Risk VaR, stop loss, credit, fuel mismatch, term, volume, approved traders and approved products.
Position reports are produced on a regular basis for both the trading and plant books.
As the Group no longer applies cash flow hedge accounting to its power and fuel derivative contracts, all fair value gains and losses are recorded in the income statement.
The Groups coal purchase contracts are typically treated as own use because they are both entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the Groups electricity production requirements and they are not net settled.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 154 International Power Annual Report 2008 31 Financial instruments continued Sensitivity analysis As stated earlier, when hedging the output of our generation assets it is our policy to both forward sell the power and forward buy the corresponding fuel contemporaneously in order to lock in the spread.
The spread is the difference between the cost of fuel to generate a unit of electricity and the price at which that unit of electricity is sold.
Spreads are usually expressed in terms of price per MWh.
When gas is used as fuel the difference is called spark spread and when coal is used as the fuel it is called dark spread.
From a management perspective, once the spread relating to the future output from a generation asset is forward contracted, the asset is considered hedged.
To the extent that future output has not been forward contracted in this manner it is considered unhedged.
Management review on an ongoing basis the extent to which generation output is unhedged.
However, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures the following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of changes in market prices as a result of entering into financial instruments including derivatives.
Specifically, this sensitivity shows the impact on the Groups results arising from changes in the fair value of forward contracts which are entered into to hedge the future output of our generation assets following a change in forward market prices.
The table below shows the impact on equity and profits of a 20% increase in the forward curves for both electricity sales prices and gas purchase prices as if they had occurred on 31 December 2008.
This could be viewed as the opportunity cost of our forward contracting if prices had changed in this manner.
It should also be noted that if there were to be a 20% decrease in forward prices, the results of the sensitivity analysis would produce an opposite impact on profits and equity to that shown below.
The movement of forward price curves by 20% is believed to be a reasonable approximation of how much markets can move, on average, over any given year.
In some years markets will be less volatile and in other years they may be more volatile.
No sensitivity is applied to coal purchase prices given that such contracts are typically treated as own use.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of these sensitivities: A ll qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December 2007 would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting.
At 31 December 2008, the Group has no energy-related cash flow hedges and therefore all fair value gains and losses would be recorded in the income statement: C ommodity contracts that qualify for own use treatment continue to do so, and thus this sensitivity has no impact for these contracts.
These typically include coal purchase contracts.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests, and in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact Impact on Impact profit for on total profit for on total the year ended equity at the year ended equity at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 m m m m 20% change in forward price curves for electricity 259 283 296 357 20% change in forward price curves for gas 53 48 52 52 Because we hedge the spark spread, i. e. the sales price of electricity and the cost of gas contemporaneously, there is little net impact on the fair value of our derivative contracts to changes in the forward price curves to sell electricity and to purchase gas.
However, for the dark spread, where the cost of coal is contracted in advance but is accounted for as own use, only the electricity sales contracts are exposed to fair value gains and losses arising from changes in the forward curves because these are considered commodity derivative financial instruments.
This mismatch in accounting treatment predominantly gives rise to the significant net impact on profit and equity arising from increases in forward prices for electricity.
Therefore, from an accounting perspective, forward contracting of dark spread at coal plants potentially gives rise to more volatility in earnings.
However, to the extent that fair value gains and losses are recorded in any period within either the income statement or the hedging reserve when applying cash flow hedge accounting ultimately they will reverse by the time of delivery.
It should be noted that changes in the fair value of derivatives, which are entered into for economic hedging purposes refer to basis of preparation in note 1, are recorded in the middle column in the Groups income statement and therefore the fair value gains and losses have no impact on underlying business performance.
To the extent that our power plants are not already contracted, and spreads increase, it is likely that the future profitability of our coal plants would also improve, because they would contract into the higher dark spreads.
It also means that if plants are unavailable at the point in time at which power should be delivered under the contract, the mark to market position represents the anticipated net cost of purchasing power and selling fuel in the markets to fulfil the contractual obligations and in that instance the unrealised fair value gains and losses would become realised.
Financial statements 155 ii Interest rate risk Variability in interest payments can introduce volatility into project returns and corporate funding costs.
We mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, principally by using forward rate or interest rate swap agreements.
A limited number of our PPAs also have interest rate pass through mechanisms.
Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require the specific approval of the Board.
The Groups policy is to fix interest rates for up to 75% of its debt portfolio over the medium to long-term.
At individual project company level, it is usually a condition of the non-recourse debt funding that project companies maintain a certain minimum level of fixed rate debt, typically 70%.
This complements the Groups policy.
The overall level of the Groups fixed rate debt is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
A forward rate agreement is a contract in which one party pays a fixed interest rate and receives a floating interest rate equal to a reference rate specified at the time of entering into the contract.
The payments are calculated over a notional amount over a certain period with the differential being settled at the termination date.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to exchange pre-determined interest payments, based on a notional principal amount, over an agreed period of time.
At 31 December 2008, including the impact of receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swaps, 5,467 million 73% 2007: 3,587 million and 62% of total debt had fixed interest rates.
In 2008 the weighted average interest rate of fixed rate debt, taking into account the effect of receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swaps on floating rate debt, was 7% 2007: 7%.
The effect of the Groups interest rate swaps effectively replaced 838 million 2007: 806 million of floating rate Australian dollar borrowings, 1,337 million 2007: 759 million of floating rate US dollar borrowings, 334 million 2007: 297 million of floating rate sterling borrowings, 108 million 2007: 83 million of floating rate Czech koruna borrowings and 733 million 2007: 344 million of floating rate euro borrowings with fixed rate borrowings.
The floating rate financial liabilities comprise bank borrowings bearing interest rates fixed in advance for various time periods up to 12 months by reference to official market rates e. g. LIBOR.
When we use project finance in companies with power purchase agreements, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual terms of the power purchase agreement.
Sensitivity analysis The Group accounts for certain interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges where the forecast transaction is considered highly probable and the hedge is assessed as effective.
The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a 100 basis point parallel increase in the interest rate yield curve as if it had occurred on 31 December.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity: T he impact of this sensitivity has only been recorded for changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, which have their fair value gains and losses recorded within the financial statements: assets available-for-sale: and assets held for trading as the Group does not designate any other financial asset at fair value through profit or loss and these are the only significant financial instruments whose carrying amounts change as a result of changes in interest rates.
All other financial instruments are carried at amortised cost and hence no adjustment has been applied: N o impact is recorded from changes in interest rates on employee benefits including pensions, provisions and other financial assets and liabilities: All qualifying cash flow hedges at 31 December would continue to be fully effective in achieving cash flow hedge accounting: F air value gains and losses on interest rate swaps which do not qualify for hedge accounting as at 31 December are reflected solely in the income statement.
The results are presented net of deferred tax but before minority interests and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact Impact on Impact profit for on total profit for on total the year ended equity at the year ended equity at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 m m m m Increase in yield curve by 100 basis point parallel shift 2 82 8 49 A second sensitivity analysis calculates the impact on profitability of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates on unhedged interest-bearing loans and bonds, i. e. those which are subject to a floating rate of interest, i. e. where there is no receive variable: pay fixed interest rate swap, and on cash balances on which variable rates of interest are earned.
The calculation is performed as follows.
The year end cash balance is deducted from the year end unhedged floating rate loans and bonds.
The net borrowing is multiplied by 1%.
In 2008 the result of this second sensitivity equated to 5 million before tax 2007: 8 million.
iii Foreign currency risk International Power operates in 21 countries worldwide which exposes it to foreign currency exchange risks.
These relate to translation, transaction and economic risks.
Treasury policy is to hedge a reasonable proportion of the Groups translation exposures by borrowing in the same currency as the underlying investment.
Any residual translation exposure will result in fluctuating sterling profits and balance sheet asset and liability movements which are not related to underlying business performance.
In countries with historically weak currencies we aim to have PPA tariffs denominated in a major international currency.
This protects future returns from large and rapid devaluations.
Group translation exposure is monitored and reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 156 International Power Annual Report 2008 31 Financial instruments continued For the purposes of preparing the consolidated financial statements, the income statement results of the Groups foreign operations are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period concerned.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates.
Currency translation exposures comprise the monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved, other than borrowings treated as hedges of net investments in overseas operations.
In order to hedge the net assets of foreign operations, borrowings are generally in the same currency as the underlying investment.
The Group aims to hedge a reasonable proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way.
It is not our policy to hedge currency translation through foreign exchange contracts or currency swaps.
Currency transaction exposure arises where a business unit makes sales and purchases in a currency other than its functional currency.
The Group utilises these exposures, where possible, to hedge existing transaction exposures on sales and purchases through matching.
In line with Group policy any remaining transaction exposures are hedged as soon as they are committed, by using foreign currency contracts and similar instruments.
Transaction exposure also arises on the remittance of dividends or surplus funds from overseas.
All external currency instruments used to manage transaction exposure are transacted by Group treasury or under the guidance of Group treasury.
Identification of potential transaction exposures is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast by local currency which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
As noted in 31b, to hedge our foreign exchange risks for transactional currency exposures and currency exposures on future expected sales we use both non-derivative financial instruments, such as foreign currency borrowings, and derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign currency contracts, currency options and swaps.
When we use derivative financial instruments to hedge our exposures to foreign currency risk, the Group may choose to account for these as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges if they meet the hedge accounting criteria set out in IAS 39.
Sensitivity analysis The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of currency translation exposures arising from monetary assets and liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currencies of International Power plc or of its subsidiaries.
It shows the impact on the Groups consolidated income statement by changing the year end exchange rate of sterling against all other currencies.
To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in sterling in subsidiaries with non-sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in the year end exchange rate is determined.
To the extent that there are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-sterling currencies in International Power plc or its subsidiaries with sterling functional currencies, the impact of a change in year end exchange rate is determined.
The following assumptions have been applied in the performance of this sensitivity: The results of foreign exchange gains and losses on the retranslation of foreign currency denominated loans, that are treated as net investment hedges, are not recorded within the impact on the Group income statement, as these foreign exchange gains and losses are recorded within the translation reserve: T he exposure on translating the financial statements of subsidiaries into the sterling presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements are not included in the sensitivity analysis.
The results are presented before tax and minority interests and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, exclude the impact at joint ventures and associates.
Impact on Impact on profit for profit for the year ended the year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m 10% strengthening of sterling 21 11 10% weakening of sterling 25 15 g Credit risk We are exposed to credit-related losses in the event that counterparties to traded contracts and financial instruments do not perform according to the terms of the contract or instrument.
The Groups policy is to manage its credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
Energy trading activities are strictly monitored and controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, which include specific criteria for the management of counterparty credit exposures in each of our key regions.
Counterparty exposure via customer power purchase agreements agreements to sell power is monitored and managed by the local asset team with assistance from Group treasury where appropriate.
The impact of an individual PPA default is minimised by the geographical diversity and large number of projects in which the Group is involved.
In addition, the non-recourse nature of the funding arrangements, which limits our exposure to our equity commitment in a project, also provides limited credit exposure to the Group.
For the majority of the Groups commodity trading arrangements we have master netting agreements which establish legally enforceable rights of set-off that reduce the credit exposure of the Group in the event of counterparty default.
Where possible, the Group will also enter into ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreements to mitigate its credit exposure to financial instruments.
In the normal course of business there may be occasions when we have a significant concentration of credit risk with one counterparty in order to minimise settlement risk on major transactions.
This risk is normally only applicable for a short period of days and is always with an existing relationship bank with a strong investment grade rating.
Financial statements 157 Group treasury manages the Group-wide counterparty credit exposure on a consolidated basis for financial counterparties, with the active and close involvement of the global risk manager.
Financial counterparty credit exposure is limited to relationship banks and commercial paper with strong investment grade credit ratings.
With regard to financial instruments subject to credit risk, International Power selects counterparties with appropriate ratings for the size, type and duration of the instrument involved.
A small proportion of counterparties trading energy are below investment grade.
For those energy market transactions with counterparties below investment grade, and which are not supported by appropriate collateral, reserves are carried against the trading risk.
Exposures within this band are restricted and closely monitored within narrow limits.
The immediate credit exposure of financial instruments is represented by those financial instruments that have a net positive fair value by counterparty.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1,129 1,161 Available-for-sale financial assets 47 13 2 3 Loans and receivables refer to note 31a 2,582 1,994 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4 derivative financial assets 507 236 Designated cash flow hedge relationships 4 derivative financial assets 32 Total financial assets 4,265 3,436 1 T he majority of cash balances and short-term deposits are held with strong investment grade banks or financial institutions.
2 Finance lease receivables are with strong investment grade counterparties including the Portuguese and German governments.
3 T he majority of trade receivables, other receivables and accrued income relate to merchant trading counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
4 T he Group holds collateral of 179 million at 31 December 2008 2007: 79 million as security for the above derivative financial assets.
Collateral held as security includes parent company guarantees of appropriate credit worthiness, letters of credit issued by investment grade banks and cash margining as set out in the following table: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Parent company guarantee 116 31 Letters of credit 1 Cash margining 62 48 179 79 The Group also holds additional collateral from counterparties, which only becomes enforceable if existing exposures increase or additional trading with that counterparty is contracted.
This additional undrawn collateral totals 209 million at 31 December 2008 2007: 180 million and is in the form of letters of credit and parent company guarantees.
During 2008 we have not needed to take possession of collateral available to us in order to settle any outstanding debts owed to us.
If the Group was to take possession of collateral or to call on other credit enhancements e. g. guarantees, and the assets held as security were not readily convertible into cash, we would regularly update our estimates of value and develop a realistic plan for monetisation.
We would defend rigorously our right to recoup any outstanding amounts from arrangements which ultimately do not fully settle a liability.
Although we have seen no direct evidence of changes to the credit risk of our counterparties, the current focus on financial liquidity in all international markets has introduced increased financial volatility.
We utilise local market knowledge, credit default swap pricing and independent financial reviews to identify significant changes to the financial profile of our counterparties.
As at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 there were no significant financial guarantees or third party obligations that increase the credit risk of the Groups financial assets.
h Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities as they fall due.
Reporting entities are responsible for managing their own liquidity.
The Groups treasury function is responsible for managing corporate liquidity.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it has sufficient headroom under both normal and abnormal conditions.
It manages this through the use of regularly updated cash flow forecasts and a financial headroom analysis which is used to determine funding requirements for a rolling five year period, which is reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 158 International Power Annual Report 2008 31 Financial instruments continued i Borrowing facilities The Group has substantial borrowing facilities available to it.
The undrawn committed facilities available at 31 December 2008 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met amount to 1,054 million 2007: 821 million.
This table excludes fully drawn loan facilities and at 31 December 2008 212 million 2007: 323 million of letters of credit in issue.
Committed facilities 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Currency Expiry Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available m m m m m m Corporate: 1 Corporate revolving credit facility USD October 2010 591 482 482 427 425 425 2 IPM UK Power credit support facility GBP June 2012 300 219 219 250 187 187 Subsidiaries: Rugeley Power working capital and credit support facility GBP July 2014 195 92 92 195 97 32 Rugeley Power FGD construction facility GBP July 2014 145 13 13 145 57 9 3 IPA Central revolving and letter of credit facility USD July 2015 75 28 28 IPA Marketing Company revolving and letter 3 of credit facility USD July 2015 56 39 39 International Power Opatovice revolving credit facility CZK May 2012 36 7 7 138 24 24 ANP Funding 1 working capital and letter 4 of credit facility USD July 2010 47 23 23 55 42 42 Other subsidiary facilities in various currencies Various Various 242 151 151 204 102 102 1,687 1,054 1,054 1,414 934 821 1 The drawn element of the corporate revolving credit facility relates to letters of credit issued of 109 million 2007: 2 million.
2 The IPM UK Power facilities include a 200 million 2007: 200 million letter of credit and parent company guarantee facility and 100 million 2007: 50 million working capital facility, both from Mitsui.
3 The IPA Central and IPA Marketing Company facilities include a working capital facility with capacity to issue letters of credit.
At 31 December 2008 53 million of letters of credit and 11 million cash had been drawn from these facilities.
4 The ANP Funding 1 facilities include a 47 million 2007: 55 million committed working capital and letter of credit facility.
At 31 December 2008, 12 million of cash and 12 million of letters of credit had been issued from this facility 2007: 13 million of letters of credit.
Included in cash and cash equivalents are 154 million 2007: 189 million of margin deposits placed with trading counter-parties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the Groups undrawn letter of credit facilities.
At 31 December 2008, letter of credit facilities of 727 million were available to support these trading activities and margin deposit requirements and is included in the total undrawn and available facilities above refer to note 23.
Uncommitted facilities Uncommitted facilities include bank borrowing and letter of credit facilities which are normally reaffirmed by banks annually, although theoretically they may be withdrawn at any time.
These facilities include the following: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Facility Undrawn Available Facility Undrawn Available m m m m m m Corporate: Corporate borrowing and overdraft facilities 61 61 61 50 50 50 Corporate letter of credit facilities 23 23 23 39 39 39 Subsidiaries: Subsidiary working capital and letter of credit facilities 43 40 40 5 2 2 127 124 124 94 91 91 Uncommitted facilities of 97 million 2007: 94 million include an undrawn and available cash element of 61 million 2007: 52 million.
Also included are 63 million 2007: 39 million of undrawn and available credit lines for the purposes of issuing letters of credit and guarantees in the normal course of business.
Financial statements 159 j Contractual cash flows The following table is an analysis of the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to financial liabilities at the balance sheet date and a reconciliation from total undiscounted cash flows to carrying amounts: 31 December 2008 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Loans and bonds note 24 834 1,547 3,467 4,223 10,071 87 2,537 7,447 Other financial liabilities 854 28 22 43 947 23 924 Derivative financial liabilities Net payments Energy derivatives 359 157 218 192 926 179 747 Interest rate swaps 81 64 61 29 235 9 226 Other derivatives 2 2 22 24 Total financial liabilities 2,130 1,796 3,768 4,487 12,181 65 2,748 9,368 31 December 2007 Due within Due between Due between Due after Total Impact of Impact of Carrying 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years undiscounted other interest amount cash flows non-cash coupons items discounting m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Loans and bonds note 24 823 691 2,984 3,567 8,065 55 2,187 5,823 Other financial liabilities 672 25 23 64 784 35 749 Derivative financial liabilities Net payments Energy derivatives 388 145 129 249 911 177 734 Interest rate swaps 7 12 5 1 25 1 24 Other derivatives 76 76 Total financial liabilities 1,890 873 3,141 3,881 9,785 21 2,400 7,406 The net payments relating to interest rate swaps have been calculated based on the yield curves as at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007.
Net payments under interest rate swaps represent the projected net settlement amounts under the swaps.
The variable interest payments, of the loans to which the swaps relate, are included in the maturity of borrowings table in note 24 and included in loans and bonds above.
The above tables do not include forecast data for liabilities which may be incurred in the future which are not contracted at the end of the financial year.
Refer to note 33 for a breakdown of the Groups commitments and to note 34 for a summary of the Groups bonds and guarantees.
An assessment of the Groups current liquidity position is given in the Business and financial review section of the Annual Report on pages 55 to 57.
The disclosure of derivatives in the consolidated balance sheet has been made in line with managements view of the Groups operating cycle.
This has the effect of presenting certain energy derivative cash flows net of discounting, shown above as due after more than one year, to current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 160 International Power Annual Report 2008 32 Operating lease arrangements The Group as lessee Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, fall due as follows: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Not later than one year 14 13 Later than one year and not later than five years 49 46 Later than five years 87 84 Total outstanding commitments 150 143 Operating lease payments substantially represent rentals payable by the Group for office properties and wind turbine equipment.
These payment commitments are offset by future minimum receipts under non-cancellable operating subleases of 1 million 2007: 3 million.
The Group leases office space under a non-cancellable operating lease agreement which expires in 2016.
The lease agreement is renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
The Group also leases land under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The lease terms are between 20 and 70 years, and the majority of the lease agreements are renewable at maturity at market rate.
The Group as lessor International Powers business is the generation of electricity.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain operating leases.
The Group has contracted to receive from offtakers the following minimum lease payments: 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Not later than one year 99 72 Later than one year and not later than five years 227 228 Later than five years 85 78 Total minimum lease payments 411 378 Operating lease income earned from these arrangements during the year amounted to 78 million 2007: 29 million.
33 Commitments Fuel purchase and transportation commitments At 31 December 2008, the Groups subsidiaries had contractual commitments to purchase and or transport fuel.
Based on contract provisions, which consist of fixed prices, subject to adjustment clauses in some cases, these minimum commitments are currently estimated to aggregate to 672 million 2007: 494 million expiring within one year, 1,965 million 2007: 1,811 million expiring between one and five years and 763 million 2007: 1,063 million expiring after more than five years.
Capital commitments Capital commitments, contracted but not provided in 2008 amount to 286 million 2007: 90 million.
Financial statements 161 34 Contingent liabilities a Legal proceedings The Company is aware of claims and potential claims, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group, by or on behalf of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB, and contractors in respect of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after-tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
b Taxation The Company is aware of a number of issues which are, or may be, the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where the Group has operations, including its joint ventures and associates.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to the professional advice received, that adequate provision has been made for the settlement of any tax liabilities that might arise.
c Collateral, bonds and guarantees The Group has pledged financial assets with carrying amounts totalling 1,994 million as collateral as at 31 December 2008 2007: 1,752 million.
These comprise finance lease receivables, cash margining in support of commercial arrangements and trade receivables.
Various growth and expansion projects are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 655 million 2007: 475 million.
Energy trading activities relating to merchant plant are supported by letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 649 million 2007: 430 million.
d Joint ventures and associates Bonds and guarantees The Groups joint ventures and associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees.
The Groups share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees amount to 103 million 2007: 82 million.
These obligations are normally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate.
Any amounts guaranteed by International Power plc or any other Group subsidiary are included within bonds and guarantees disclosed in c above.
35 Related party transactions The key management personnel of International Power plc comprises the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key management personnel can be found in note 6 and the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 84 to 99 of the Annual Report.
a Operations and maintenance contracts In the normal course of business, the Group has contracted on an arms length basis to provide power station operation and maintenance services to joint ventures and associates.
During the year the Group derived income of 62 million 2007: 55 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 6 million 2007: 5 million in relation to these contracts.
b Retail supply contracts In the normal course of business, the Group has contracted on an arms length basis to provide power and gas to joint ventures and associates involved in retail supply.
During the year the Group derived income of 67 million 2007: 36 million from these arrangements.
Included in trade receivables is 1 million 2007: nil in relation to these contracts.
c Transportation contracts In the normal course of business, the Group has contracts in place, in relation to fuel transportation, with one of its jointly controlled entities.
During the year, the Group incurred costs of 9 million 2007: 8 million in relation to these contracts.
d Emissions allowance certificates In the normal course of business, the Group has contracted on an arms length basis to provide emissions allowance certificates to one of its associates.
During the year the Group derived income of 34 million from these arrangements 2007: nil.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 162 International Power Annual Report 2008 36 Subsidiaries The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries which are all indirectly held by International Power plc, unless otherwise stated.
Name and nature of business Country of Group incorporation and effective registration Type of share shareholding North America ANP Bellingham Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% ANP Funding 1 financing company US Ordinary Shares 100% Armstrong Energy Limited Partnership, LLLP power generation US Partners Capital 100% Calumet Energy Team, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Coleto Creek Power LP power generation US Partners Capital 100% Hays Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Milford Power Limited Partnership power generation US Partners Capital 100% Pleasants Energy, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Troy Energy, LLC power generation US Ordinary Shares 100% Europe International Power Opatovice A. S. power generation Czech Republic Ordinary Shares 100% First Hydro Company power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% First Hydro Finance plc financing company England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Indian Queens Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% IPM Energy Trading Limited energy trading England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Rugeley Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 75% 1 Deeside Power Limited power generation Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% 1 IP Maestrale Investments Limited investment holding company Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 100% 1 IPM Portfolio Trading Limited energy trading Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% Levanto Structured Energy Lux S.. r. l. investment holding company Luxembourg Ordinary Shares 100% 2 International Power Levanto Holdings BV investment holding company Netherlands Ordinary Shares 100% Turbogs Produtora Enrgetica S. A power generation Portugal Ordinary Shares 100% Electro Metalurgica del Ebro SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 64% Ibrica fide Enrgas SL power generation Spain Ordinary Shares 70% Middle East Al Kamil Power Company SAOG power generation Oman Ordinary Shares 65% Tihama Power Generation Company Limited power generation Saudi Arabia Ordinary Shares 60% Australia Canunda Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% Gippsland Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 70% Hazelwood Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 92% Latrobe Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 70% Perth Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners Capital 49% Simply Energy retail supplier Australia Partners Capital 100% Synergen Power Pty Limited power generation Australia Ordinary Shares 100% 3 Pelican Point Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary Shares 100% Asia Thai National Power Company Limited power generation Thailand Ordinary Shares 100% Corporate IPM Eagle LLP investment holding company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% Normanglade 4 LLP financing company England and Wales Partners Capital 70% 1 IPM UK Power Holdings Limited investment holding company Gibraltar Ordinary Shares 75% 4 IPR Insurance Company Limited insurance captive Guernsey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Jersey Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Finance Jersey II Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% 1 International Power Finance Jersey III Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary Shares 100% All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below.
The year end for all subsidiaries listed is 31 December.
The Group also has a number of overseas branch offices.
2 International Power Levanto Holdings BV owns indirectly, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, bonds relating to the Breeze portfolio of the Levanto wind farm portfolio.
As required, we consolidate 100% of the results of the Breeze wind farm portfolio.
4 Held directly by International Power plc.
Financial statements 163 37 Joint ventures and associates The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates which are all indirectly held by International Power plc.
Name and nature of business Country of Group incorporation and Accounting effective operation period end Type of share shareholding Joint ventures North America 1 EcoElctrica LP power generation Bermuda 31 December Partners Capital 35% Hartwell Energy Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners Capital 50% Oyster Creek Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners Capital 50% Europe T-Power N. V. power generation Belgium 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Prazsk Teplrensk A. S. power generation Czech Republic 31 December Ordinary Shares 49% Elecgas S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Australia South East Australia Gas Pty Limited gas pipeline Australia 30 June Ordinary Shares 33% Asia 2 Uch Power Pvt Limited power generation Pakistan 31 December Ordinary Shares 71% Associates Europe Derwent Cogeneration Limited power generation England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 23% Opus Energy Limited retail supplier England and Wales 31 March Ordinary Shares 30% ISAB Energy Srl power generation Italy 31 December Ordinary Shares 34% Carbopego Abastecimento fide Combustiveis, S. A. fuel supplier Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Pegop Energia Electrica, S. A. power station operations Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Tejo Energia Producao e Distribuicao fide Energia Electrica, S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary Shares 50% Uni-Mar Enerji Yatirimlari A. S. power generation Turkey 31 December Ordinary Shares 33% Middle East Hidd Power Company BSC c power generation and desalination Bahrain 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Q Power QSC power generation and desalination Qatar 31 December Ordinary Shares 40% Arabian Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Fujairah Asia Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Shuweihat CMS International Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary Shares 20% Asia PT Paiton Energy Company power generation Indonesia 31 December Ordinary Shares 41% Kot Addu Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 36% 3 The Hub Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary Shares 17% All joint ventures and associates operate in their country of incorporation except as identified.
2 International Power accounts for its interest in Uch Power Pvt Limited as a jointly controlled entity, using the equity method due to the joint control of its activities exerted by its shareholders.
3 I nternational Power continues to equity account for HUBCO, despite its shareholding being less than 20%, as it continues to exert and has the power to exert significant influence over the entity.
At HUBCO, International Power continues to have significant board representation.
Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 164 International Power Annual Report 2008 38 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The Groups accounting policies are set out in note 1 to these consolidated financial statements.
Management is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of these policies.
Areas which management believe require the most critical accounting judgements are as follows apart from those policies involving estimation which are outlined in b which follows.
a Critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Cash flow hedge accounting The Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and selling of commodities: principally sales of electricity and the purchase of fuel for its own power plants.
In merchant markets these contracts typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and accordingly have to be marked to market.
Accounting for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedges are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to be deferred in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a forecast transaction is both highly probable and whether the hedge is effective.
This requires both subjective and objective measures of determination.
On 1 January 2008 the Group revoked the designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales of power and purchase of fuel.
For these cash flow hedges, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the period when the hedge was effective shall remain separately recognised in equity until the forecast transaction occurs or is no longer expected to occur.
Fair value gains and losses, after the date of fide-designation as cash flow hedges, are recorded in the income statement.
Income recognition from long-term PPAs When power plants sell their output under long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to receive payment known as a capacity payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output.
In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to sell electrical output and electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual arrangements and determine whether they constitute a form of lease or a service contract.
For those arrangements determined to be or to contain leases, further judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a finance or operating lease.
This assessment requires an evaluation of where the substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside.
For finance leases it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total capacity payments which should be treated as finance income, capital repayment and as a fee for service provision.
For operating leases it is necessary to determine the allocation of total capacity payments between minimum lease payments and fees for service provision.
Evaluation of levels of control and influence The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the consolidated financial statements.
We achieve control or influence through Board representation and by obtaining rights of veto over significant actions.
We generally treat investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as investments available for sale.
These investments available for sale are carried at market value where market prices are available.
Where quoted market prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, equity instruments are measured at cost.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entitys operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
Equally, where the Group holds a substantial interest but less than 20% in an entity and has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, we also treat that entity as an associate.
This treatment is applied to our interest in The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we own 17% refer to note 37.
Where the Group has the power to control the operations of an entity, and it has less than 50% of the equity, we treat the entity as a subsidiary when required.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where we recognise our interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity we use the equity method of accounting.
Sometimes we may apply the equity method to a joint venture where we do not possess an equal shareholding to the other venturers, because the venturers are bound by a contractual arrangement and the contractual arrangement establishes joint control.
This treatment is applied to our interest in Uch Power Pvt Limited of which we own 71% refer to note 37.
Exceptional items The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature and amount should be disclosed separately if the financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the entity.
The Directors label these items collectively as exceptional items.
Determining which transactions are to be considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: i disposals of interests in businesses: ii discontinued operations: iii impairments and impairment reversals.
All exceptional items are included on the appropriate income statement line item to which they relate.
In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure is made of all items in one column on the face of the income statement.
Exceptional items are also set out in note 8.
Taxation The income tax expense recorded in the income statement is dependent on the profit for the year and the tax rates in effect at the balance sheet date, unless new tax rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is also dependent on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which International Power operates.
It is necessary to consider which deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.
Financial statements 165 b Key sources of estimation uncertainty Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment Depreciation of plant and other assets is charged so as to write down the value of those assets to their residual value over their respective estimated useful lives.
The Directors are required to assess the useful economic lives and residual values of the assets so that depreciation is charged on a systematic basis to the current carrying amount.
It is Group policy to depreciate combined cycle gas plant over 30 years to a 10% residual value, unless the circumstances of the project or life of specific components indicate a shorter period or a lower residual value.
Coal plants, hydro plants and wind farms are considered on an individual basis.
Our depreciation lives are disclosed in the accounting polices refer to note 1.
Impairment analysis Management regularly considers whether there are any indications of impairment to the carrying amounts of the Groups long-life assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets and the Groups power plant and other property, plant and equipment.
As a minimum, the recoverability of goodwill is tested on an annual basis.
This includes a review of market conditions in both the short-term and long-term.
Impairment reviews require a comparison of the current carrying amount of the asset with the present value of the expected future cash flows of the comparable cash generating unit and its fair value less costs to sell.
The reviews are generally based on pre-tax risk adjusted discounted cash flow projections that require estimates of discount rates and future market prices over the remaining lives of the assets.
We benchmark the results of this testing against post-tax risk adjusted cash flows, discounted on a post-tax basis.
At each balance sheet date, consideration is also given as to whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods has reversed.
As disclosed in note 8, during 2008, the Group impaired the carrying amount of its Milford plant following an impairment review.
The impairment arises principally as a result of Milfords long-term PPA coming to an end and changes to forward prices for its capacity and output.
The charge of 37 million was classified as an exceptional item.
The Australian federal government has proposed introducing a Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme CPRS by 2010.
The introduction of the CPRS has the potential to significantly impact the assumptions used to determine the future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the Groups property, plant and equipment for the purpose of value-in-use calculations in impairment testing.
The Group has not incorporated the impact of CPRS into its assumptions at 31 December 2008 as insufficient market information exists.
Uncertainties pertain to: the level of emissions the Group is expected to emit in Australia: abatement opportunities: the price of emission permits: the number of permits required to be purchased: the ability to pass on the cost of the permits: and the level of government assistance.
Due to the preceding factors listed, it is considered impracticable to assess CPRS implications on the business at this time.
Fair values of energy derivatives The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with the presentation requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the accounting requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts on its balance sheet at fair value unless they qualify for own use treatment.
Changes in the value of its derivative contracts in each period are recorded in the income statement unless the required hedge accounting criteria are met which allows the movement in fair value to be recorded within equity.
The Group estimates the fair value of its energy derivative contracts by reference to forward price curves.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates.
Generally the forward price curve is derived from published price quotations in an active market, over the short-term horizon period, and from valuation techniques over the more distant horizon period.
Assumptions which underpin the long-term price curve relate to the prices of commodities such as oil and carbon, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Uncertainties relating to the terms of the CPRS in Australia also have an impact on the determination of the shape of forward price curves for electricity in this region.
The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the shape of forward price curves.
The forward price curves are only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
As disclosed in note 31, at 31 December 2008 only 12% 2007: 13% of the carrying amount of derivative assets are based on non-market observable inputs and only 23% 2007: 18% of the carrying amount of derivative financial liabilities are based on non-market observable inputs.
Fair values on acquisition The Group is required to bring acquired assets and liabilities on to the Group balance sheet at their fair value.
Power plant and equipment usually have long operating lives, and are often bought with associated long-term contracts such as PPAs.
Determination of the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts can require a significant amount of judgement.
Fair values on our major acquisitions are disclosed in note 30.
In determining the fair values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as part of the acquisition of the portfolio of North American peaking plants we have used the services of a professional firm of valuers.
Recoverability of trade and other receivables Management assesses the recoverability of its trade and other receivables on a periodic basis.
Payment delays by the offtaker the Water and Power Development Authority in Pakistan have occurred at the Groups joint ventures and associates during 2008.
The Group has not made a provision against overdue amounts at 31 December 2008 as management consider that all amounts will be fully recovered from the offtaker.
Provisions Within the Group there are a number of long-term provisions.
The carrying amount of these provisions is estimated based on assumptions about such items as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of costs.
For example, the pensions liability is based on assumptions relating to discount rates used, future changes in salaries, expected mortality and future increases in pension payments.
We review these assumptions regularly, and for pensions annually.
However, a change in estimates could have a material impact on the carrying amount of these provisions.
In relation to pensions liabilities, the result of a sensitivity analysis relating to actuarial assumptions is included in note 7.
39 Events after the balance sheet date There are no events after the balance sheet date to report.
