F Fiin na an nc ciia al l p po os siit tiio on n a an nd d r re es so ou ur rc ce es s 52 52 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 F Fiinan nanc ciial al p po os siit tiion on and and r re es so our urc ce es s A Ac cq qu uiis siit tiio on ns s o of f 6 61 14 4 m miilllliio on n iin n 2 20 00 08 8 iin nc cllu ud fide e t th he e ffo ou ur r p pe ea aki kin ng g ffac aciilliit tiie es s iin n N Nor ort th h A Am me eri ric ca a a and nd a ad dd diit tiional onal s shar hare eh hol old diin ng gs s iin n T Tu ur rb bo og g s s a an nd d U Uc ch h.. T Th he e fi fin na an nc ci ia al l p po os si it ti io on n o of f t th he e G Gr ro ou up p r re em ma ai in ns s s st tr ro on ng g, w wi it th h g go oo od d l li iq qu ui id di it ty y a an nd d s st tr ro on ng g f fr re ee e c ca as sh h fl flo ow w g ge en ne er ra at ti io on n.. B Bu usi sine fines ss s o ov five er rv viie ew w 53 53 53 T Th he e 1 11 18 8M MW W C CC CG GT T p po ow we er r s st ta at tiio on n C Co or rp po or ra at te e c co os st ts s a at t K Kw wiin na an na a iin n W We es st te er rn n A Au us st tr ra alliia a C Co or rp po or ra at te e c co os st ts s a at t 4 49 9 m miilllliio on n 2 20 00 07 7: : 5 52 2 m miilllliio on n a ar re e 3 3 m miilllliio on n llo ow we er r t th ha an n 2 20 00 07 7.. IIn nte tere res st t N Ne et t iin nt te er re es st t e ex xp pe en ns se e a at t 3 36 68 8 m miilllliio on n iis s 6 60 0 m miilllliio on n h hiig gh he er r t th ha an n 2 20 00 07 7:: m ma aiin nlly y d du ue e t to o t th he e iin nt te er re es st t e ex xp pe en ns se e P Pro ro t t ffro rom m o op pe era rati tio on ns s iin nc cr re ea as se ed d r re ella at tiin ng g t to o a acq cqu uiis siit tiio on ns s m ma ad fide e d du ur riin ng g 2 20 00 07 7 a an nd d 2 20 00 08 8.. to to 1 1, 0 050 50 m miilllliio on n Ta Tax x T Th he e G Gr ro ou up p t ta ax x c ch ha ar rg ge e h ha as s iin nc cr re ea as se ed d b by y 1 10 0 m miilllliio on n 1 1 6 6% % t to o 1 12 23 3 m miilllliio on n.. T Th he e e effffe ec ct tiiv five e t ta ax x r ra at te e ffo or r t th he e y ye ea ar r E Ea arn rnin ing gs s p per er s sh ha ar re e in inc cr rea eas sed ed w wa as s 2 22 2% % 2 20 00 07 7: : 2 26 6% % a af ft te er r t th he e r re el le ea as se e o of f p pr ro ov vi is si io on ns s to to 3 32 2.. 4 4 p pe en nc ce e r re ella at tiin ng g t to o p pr riio or r y ye ea ar r t ta ax x, ffo ollllo ow wiin ng g t th he e s sa at tiis sffa ac ct to or ry y r re es so ollu ut tiio on n o of f s so om me e h hiis st to or riic c t ta ax x iis ss su ue es s.. E Ex xc cllu ud diin ng g t th he es se e iit te em ms s, t th he e e effffe ec ct tiiv five e t ta ax x r ra at te e w wo ou ulld d h ha av five e b be ee en n 2 27 7% %.. IIn n 2 20 00 07 7, t th he e e effffe ec ct tiiv five e r ra at te e b be en ne efi fit te ed d ffr ro om m t th he e 2 20 0% % iim mp pa ac ct t o off t ta ax x r ra at te e c ch hang ange es s iin n t the he U UK K, C Cz zec ech h R Re ep pu ub blliic c, E Ex xc cllu ud diin ng g e ex xc ce ep pt tiio onal final iit tem ems s and and s spe pec cii c c IIA AS S 3 39 9 m ma ar rk k t to o m ma ar rk ke et t m mo ov five em me en nt ts s.. G Ge er rm ma an ny y a an nd d IIt ta ally y.. Financial position and resources 54 International Power Annual Report 2008 Foreign exchange The weakening of sterling, principally against the Czech koruna, US dollar and euro, on the retranslation of profits from foreign operations has benefited EPS by 1.9 pence in comparison with 2007.
Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements Exceptional losses before and after tax of 57 million comprise the impairment of our Milford plant by 37 million and a 20 million charge for Australian stamp duty arising from our acquisition of the Loy Yang B and Valley Power plants in 2004.
The specific IAS 39 mark to market movements reported in profit before tax for the year are gains of 290 million 2007: losses of 346 million, 163 million of which relates to decreases in forward commodity prices in the UK, US and Australia, 150 million to fair value gains on the 3.25% and 4.75% convertible euro bonds, and 23 million to losses on interest rate swaps.
Tax on mark to market movements during the year was a charge of 92 million 2007: a credit of 96 million.
The Group has US tax losses of US$593 million 412 million.
As a result of the acquisition of IPA Central the portfolio of four peaking plants in PJM and MISO in North America, certain of these tax losses have now been recognised as deferred tax assets on the balance sheet.
This has resulted in an exceptional tax credit of 59 million.
Cash flow A summary of the Groups cash flow is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Profit for the year 759 529 1 Depreciation, amortisation and other non-cash movements 411 406 Exceptional items 57 233 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 172 342 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 135 145 Capital expenditure maintenance 108 71 Net sale purchase of intangible assets 25 48 Net increase in working capital 109 4 Tax and net interest paid 485 413 Free cash flow 513 653 Australian stamp duty exceptional 7 Debt-financing costs capitalised on acquisition debt 33 2 Capital expenditure growth 156 160 Purchase of intangibles growth 8 Investments in joint ventures, associates and investments 58 1 Acquisitions 614 841 Disposals 418 Dividends paid 166 160 Proceeds from share issue 10 13 Net receipts from payments to minority interests 28 35 Foreign exchange and other 1,163 261 Increase in net debt 1,654 376 Opening net debt 4,662 3,575 Net debt on acquisition of subsidiaries 2 711 Closing net debt 6,318 4,662 1 Depreciation, amortisation and other movements are set out in the consolidated cash flow statement on page 106.
They include income statement charges for interest, tax, depreciation, and the share of profit of joint ventures and associates.
Business overview 55 Liquidity Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 513 million, a decrease of 140 million compared with 2007.
This decrease is driven by an increase in maintenance capital expenditure of 37 million, principally at Rugeley, Hazelwood and Saltend: and an increase in net interest paid of 87 million.
In addition, there was a working capital increase in the year of 109 million due to stock building at Rugeley and a reversal of some one-off working capital benefits in 2007.
Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and exceptional items, as described on the previous page, have been reversed out of the profits for the year in calculating free cash flow.
Canunda, Australia Growth capital expenditure was 156 million in the year 2007: 160 million and mainly related to fitting Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD at Rugeley, the west field mine extension at Hazelwood and further construction in our European wind portfolio.
Acquisitions of 614 million in 2008 include the four peaking facilities in North America and additional shareholdings in Turbogs and Uch.
Net debt has increased by 1,656 million between 2007 and 2008, of which 1,282 million is attributed to currency translation impacts.
Overall, over 85% of International Powers total debt is represented by non-recourse project finance.
Summary balance sheet A summarised, reclassified Group balance sheet is set out below: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Goodwill and intangibles 1,137 901 Property, plant and equipment 7,318 5,721 Investments 1,803 1,292 Long-term receivables and others 1,943 1,530 12,201 9,444 Net current liabilities excluding net debt items 137 387 Non-current liabilities excluding net debt items 1,611 1,388 Net debt 6,318 4,662 Net assets 4,135 3,007 Gearing 153% 155% Debt capitalisation 60% 61% Net debt joint ventures and associates 1,820 1,297 Goodwill and intangibles, property, plant and equipment, and investments have increased by 2,344 million during the year, with the majority of this increase relating to the weakening of sterling.
The acquisition of the portfolio of North American peaking plants in July also contributed an increase in property, plant and equipment of 480 million at that time.
The financial position of the Group remains strong, with good liquidity and strong free cash flow generation.
At 31 December 2008 the business had 354 million of cash 31 December 2007: 290 million at the corporate level and 775 million 31 December 2007: 871 million at the asset level.
Debt within the Group comprises three convertible bonds with a book value of 900 million and 6,547 million of project level debt.
The Group has a corporate revolver of US$850 million which is predominantly used for letters of credit, bid bonds and short-term liquidity requirements.
Debt capitalisation has decreased marginally to 60% 31 December 2007: 61%.
During 2008, International Power and its partners raised a total of 919 million gross, 516 million net of project finance to fund acquisitions and greenfield development projects in North America and Europe.
In addition International Power issued E700 million of senior convertible bonds, due in 2015.
These significant financings were successfully completed in a challenging banking market in 2008, with all deals completed on attractive terms.
S Fienca tio ncn ial position and resources 56 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 Net debt and capital structure Group net debt As at As at 31 December 31 December 2008 2007 m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,129 1,161 Convertible bonds 900 255 Other bonds 755 694 Bank loans and preferred equity 5,792 4,874 Net debt 6,318 4,662 The above net debt of 6,318 million excludes the Groups share of joint ventures and associates net debt of 1,820 million 2007: 1,297 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective joint venture or associate borrower and are not guaranteed by International Power or any other Group company.
The Group has sufficient credit facilities in place to fund and support adequately its existing operations and to finance the purchase of new assets.
These facilities comprise an US$850 million revolving credit facility expiring in October 2010 and three convertible bonds.
The first convertible bond of US$228 million matures in August 2023 but with bond holders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2010, 2013, 2018 and 2023.
Under the terms of this bond an issuer call option was granted, enabling International Power to redeem the bonds at any time after 13 September 2008, subject to certain conditions.
The second convertible bond of E230 million matures in July 2013.
A new convertible bond of E700 million was issued in June 2008 with a maturity date of June 2015.
The bondholders have the right to convert all bonds into our shares at anytime and, during 2008, US$24 million of the 2023 convertible bond was redeemed.
In addition, the Group has uncommitted bilateral credit lines from various banks at its disposal at the corporate level.
Further information on liquidity is included in the consolidated financial statements on pages 157 to 159.
Busi O ne vesrsa o ll vseercvtiie ow n 57 Critical accounting policies and estimates Secured non-recourse finance We prepare our consolidated financial statements The Groups financial strategy is to finance its in compliance with International Financial Reporting assets by means of limited or non-recourse project Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union financings at the project company or intermediate EU.
As such, we are required to make certain holding company level, wherever that is practical.
estimates, judgements and assumptions that we As part of this strategy, IP Maestrale Investments believe are reasonable based upon the information Limited and Pelican Point refinanced their existing available.
These estimates and assumptions affect loans and replaced them with new loans totalling the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at E1,288 million and A$190 million with a maximum the date of the financial statements, the reported maturity of December 2022 and 2018 respectively.
amounts of income and expenses during the periods In addition, the Group raised non-recourse facilities presented and the related disclosure of contingent of E494 million, E391 million and US$400 million assets and liabilities.
to support the construction of Elecgas, T-Power and the acquisition of the IPA Peakers.
On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates using previous experience, consultation with experts Corporate and Group debt and other methods considered reasonable in the On 31 December 2008 we had aggregated debt particular circumstances to ensure full compliance financing of 7,447 million denominated principally with IFRSs and best practice.
Actual results may in US dollars, Australian dollars, sterling, euro, differ significantly from our estimates, the effect Czech koruna and Thai baht.
Of this amount only of which is recognised in the period in which the 900 million has recourse at corporate level and facts that give rise to the revision become known.
6,259 million is secured by fixed or floating charges over the assets of certain subsidiaries.
Our Group accounting policies are detailed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements Aggregated debt financing of 421 million is due on pages 107 to 113.
The table on page 61 for repayment in 2009 and 1,144 million in 2010, identifies some of the areas where significant with the majority of the remaining debt balance judgements are required, normally due to the due after 2013. uncertainties involved in the application of During 2008 Standard & Poors, Fitch and Moodys particular accounting policies.
reviewed the credit rating at corporate level.
Standard & Poors maintained the rating of BBwith stable Income recognition outlook.
Fitch maintained its rating of BB with stable Our income is derived principally from owning and outlook and Moodys made a two notch upgrade operating power plants worldwide.
In merchant to Ba3 with stable outlook.
markets, the Group enters into various types of hedging or forward contracts for the buying and Short-term deposits selling of commodities related to this activity: Surplus funds are placed for short periods in principally the sale of electricity and the purchase investments that carry low credit risk and are of fuel for our own power plants.
These contracts readily realisable in major currencies.
typically fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments and are therefore required Interest rate policy to be fair valued.
Accounting for these contracts The Groups policy is to fix interest rates for a as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the hedge significant portion of the debt 73% as at is effective, the changes in value of the derivatives 31 December 2008 using forward rate or to be deferred in a hedging reserve within equity.
Turbogs interest costs are a pass through in the Power Purchase Agreement PPA tariff and therefore not an exposure to the Group.
Adjusting for this item would increase fixed rate debt to 78%.
The Group has limited exposure to changes in interest rates as variable rate debt is similar in size to variable rate Uni-Mar Marmara, Turkey cash and cash equivalents.
Significant interest rate management programmes and instruments require specific approval of the Board.
The weighted average interest rate of aggregated debt financing was 7% in 2008.
Where project finance is utilised, our policy is to align the maturity of the debt with the contractual terms of the customer offtake agreement.
Midlothian, US Financial position and resources 58 International Power Annual Report 2008 On 1 January 2008, the Group revoked the Fair values of energy derivatives designation of its cash flow hedges relating to sales The Group has prepared its financial statements of power and purchases of fuel i. e. non-financial in accordance with the presentation requirements items.
For these cash flow hedges, the cumulative of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 Financial period when the hedge was effective shall remain Instruments: Disclosures and the accounting separately recognised in equity until the forecast requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: transaction occurs or is no longer expected to Recognition and Measurement.
Fair value gains and losses, after the date IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts of dedesignation as cash flow hedges, are recorded on balance sheet at fair value unless they qualify in the consolidated income statement.
The Group for own use treatment.
Changes in the value of continues to apply cash flow hedge accounting for derivative contracts in each period are recorded interest rates swaps and other financial items.
For in earnings unless strict hedge accounting criteria these financial items to continue to achieve cash are met which allow the movement in fair value to flow hedge accounting it is necessary for the Group be recorded within equity.
to determine, on an on-going basis, whether a The Group estimates the fair value of its energy forecast transaction is both highly probable and derivative contracts by reference to forward price whether the hedge is effective.
A forward price curve represents the When our power plants sell their output under Groups view as to the prices at which customers long-term PPAs it is usual for the power plant would currently contract for delivery or settlement owning company to receive payment known as of commodities, such as power or gas, at future a capacity payment for the provision of electrical dates.
Generally the forward price curve is derived capacity whether or not the offtaker requests from published price quotations in an active market, electrical output.
In these situations, where there over the short-term horizon period, and from is a long-term contract to sell electrical output and valuation techniques over the more distant horizon electrical capacity, it is necessary for the Group period.
Assumptions which underpin the long-term to evaluate the contractual arrangements and price curve relate to the prices of commodities such determine whether they constitute a form of lease as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the or a service contract.
Where the arrangements are building of new power plants, and the prices at determined to be or to contain a form of lease, an which it would be economic for companies to enter evaluation is then required of where the substantial the market and build additional capacity new risks and rewards of ownership reside, in order to entrant pricing.
Assumptions are also made in determine the form of lease it represents.
For those relation to the impacts of environmental legislation arrangements determined to be finance leases, from the valuation date into the distant horizon.
it is necessary to calculate the proportion of total Short-term assumptions are typically based on capacity payments which should be treated as existing or substantively enacted legislation, whilst finance income, capital repayment and as a fee the long-term assumptions are typically based on for service provision.
For operating leases it is the Groups view as to market developments.
necessary to calculate the split between minimum The assumptions used during the application of Umm Al Nar, UAE lease payments and fees for service provision.
valuation techniques will directly impact the shape The Group receives payments from contractors of the forward price curve.
The forward price curves in respect of late commissioning and under are underpinned by many assumptions, and are only performance of new power plants.
Receipts which estimates of future prices.
Therefore they possess relate to compensation for lost revenue are treated inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
as income when the compensation is due and payable by the contractor.
Those receipts that relate to compensation for plants not achieving long-term performance levels specified in the original contracts are recorded as a reduction in the cost of the assets.
IPR European Wind Portfolio, Germany Business overview 59 Recoverable amount of long-life assets Fair values on acquisition Depreciation of plant is charged so as to write down The Group is required to bring assets and liabilities the value of the asset to its residual value over its acquired in business combinations on to the Group estimated useful life: balance sheet at their fair value.
Power plant and equipment usually have long operating lives, Combined Cycle Gas Turbine CCGT plant is and are often bought with associated long-term depreciated over 30 years to a 10% residual contracts such as PPAs.
Hence determination of value, unless the circumstances of the project the fair values of these long-life assets and contracts or life of specific components indicate a shorter can require a significant amount of judgement.
period or a lower residual value.
Other plant, including wind farms, coal and Consolidation policy amount of influence hydro plants are considered on an individual The determination of the level of influence the basis.
Group has over a business is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can Our asset lives are set out in note 1j to the be critical to the appropriate accounting treatment consolidated financial statements on page 110. of entities in the consolidated financial statements.
At entities which are not subsidiaries, we achieve The Group regularly considers whether there has influence through Board representation and by been any change to the estimated useful lives of obtaining rights of veto over significant actions.
generally treat investments where the Group holds They also consider whether there are any less than 20% of the equity as investments available indications of impairment to carrying values of for sale.
These investments are carried at market the Groups long-life assets, including goodwill, value where quoted market prices in an active intangible assets and property, plant and market are available.
Where they are not available, equipment.
These indicators include both the and where fair value cannot be reliably measured, impact of new environmental legislation and equity instruments are measured at cost.
the impact of any adverse market conditions.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of Impairment reviews require a comparison of the the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise current carrying amount of the asset with the significant influence over the entitys operating and present value of the expected future cash flows financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
of the respective cash-generating unit and its fair Equally, where the Group holds a substantial value less costs to sell.
The calculations are generally interest but less than 20% in an entity and has based on risk adjusted discounted cash flow the power to exert significant influence over its projections that require estimates of discount rates operations, we also treat that entity as an associate.
and future market prices over the remaining lives of the assets.
Modelling assumptions, including the A joint venture is a contractual arrangement price of power and the output of the plants, take whereby two or more parties undertake an into account all existing environmental legislation economic activity that is subject to joint control.
and managements best estimates of the impacts of Where we recognise our interest in a joint venture substantively enacted and potential new legislation.
as a jointly controlled entity, we apply the equity At the end of 2008, the Group performed an method of accounting.
Sometimes we may apply impairment review of its Milford plant.
Principally the equity method to a joint venture where we as a result of its long-term PPA coming to an end, do not possess an equal shareholding to the other and the projections of forward capacity and energy venturers, because the venturers are bound by prices, the carrying amount of the plant was a contractual arrangement and the contractual impaired by 37 million.
In the consolidated arrangement establishes joint control.
financial statements this impairment has been treated as an exceptional item.
As noted earlier in this Annual Report, environmental legislation is one of the key drivers of the long-term development of the electricity industry.
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are expected to impose increasing constraints on our ability to use fossil fuels to generate power.
As examples, recent changes to legislation that affect some of our plants in the US and in Australia include the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI programme and Australias Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme CPRS respectively.
The impact of the legislation on our assets will remain uncertain until some time after the legislation is finalised.
Financial position and resources 60 International Power Annual Report 2008 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark Taxation to market movements The tax expense recorded in the consolidated As discussed on pages 28 and 32, in order to allow a income statement is dependent on the profit for full understanding of the financial information the year and the tax rates at the balance sheet date, presented within the consolidated financial either in place or which have been substantively statements, and specifically the Groups underlying enacted.
The level of current and deferred tax business performance, the Group presents its recognised is also dependent on subjective consolidated income statement such that it judgements as to the outcome of decisions to separately identifies the effect of exceptional items be made by the tax authorities in the various tax and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
jurisdictions in which International Power operates.
The Directors consider that items of income or It is necessary to consider which deferred tax assets expense which are material by virtue of their nature should be recognised based on an assessment of the and amount should be disclosed separately if the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable.
financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and financial performance of the Recoverability of trade and other receivables Group.
The Directors label these items collectively The Group assesses the recoverability of its trade as exceptional items.
and other receivables on a periodic basis.
Payment delays by the offtaker the Water and Power Determining which transactions are to be Development Authority in Pakistan have occurred considered exceptional in nature is often a at the Groups joint ventures and associates during subjective matter.
The Group has not made a provision against the Directors believe would give rise to exceptional overdue amounts at 31 December 2008 as it items for separate disclosure would include: considers that all amounts will be fully recovered disposals of interests in businesses from the offtaker.
discontinued operations Provisions impairments and impairment reversals Within the Group there are a number of long-term provisions.
The carrying amount of these provisions All exceptional items are included on the is estimated based on assumptions about items appropriate income statement line to which they such as the risk adjustment to cash flows or discount relate.
In addition, for clarity, separate disclosure rates used, future changes in prices and estimates of is made of all such items in one column on the costs.
For example, the pensions liability is based on face of the consolidated income statement.
assumptions relating to discount rates used, future Those items that the Group separately present as changes in salaries, expected mortality, and future specific IAS 39 mark to market movements in the increases in pension payments.
We regularly review consolidated income statement principally relate the assumptions underlying provision calculations, to derivative contracts into which the Group has and pensions assumptions are reviewed on an entered in order to economically hedge certain annual basis.
However, a change in estimates could of its physical and financial exposures.
have a material impact on the carrying amount of these provisions.
Business overview 61 Accounting policy Critical accounting judgements and key sources of uncertainty derive from the determination of the following: Income recognition correct revenue recognition policy based on the contractual arrangements in place and the allocation of the risks and rewards of ownership of the plant appropriate accounting treatment of receipts from contractors Fair values of energy derivatives forward price curve for commodities where there is no observable market TNP Pluak Daeng, Thailand Recoverable amount of property, indications of impairment and the measurement of fair value using plant and equipment projected cash flows, together with risk adjusted discount rates, or other more appropriate methods of valuation Fair values on acquisition useful economic life and residual value of certain assets fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and hence how much of the purchase price is attributed to goodwill arising on acquisition of a business Consolidation policy, extent of extent of influence the Group is in a position to exercise over the influence operations, strategic direction and financial policies of entities in which it holds an equity stake Items of income and expense which items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their nature require separate disclosure and amount which require separate disclosure.
The Directors consider exceptional items these items most appropriately disclosed as exceptional Taxation appropriate provisions for taxation taking into account anticipated decisions of the tax authorities assessment of the ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings Recoverability of trade and other assessment of intention and ability of customers to pay amount billed receivables Provisions appropriate assumptions to calculate reliable estimates of the amount to be provided
