Directors report General information and disclosures The Company may by ordinary resolution: Group results and dividends The Groups Consolidated income statement set out on page 63 a subdivide its existing shares or any of them into shares shows an increase of 15.3 per cent in Group profit before of a smaller amount than is fixed by the Memorandum taxation to 79.9 million 2007: 69.3 million.
The detailed of Association or by the resolution creating the shares: results of the Group are given in the financial statements provided that in the subdivision of an existing share the on pages 63 to 97 and further comments on divisional results proportion between the amount paid and the amount if are given in the Operational review on pages 10 to 21.
There any unpaid on each reduced share shall be the same as have been no post balance sheet events.
it was in the case of the share from which the reduced share is derived and the Company may by such resolution An interim dividend of 5.3p per 10p ordinary share was paid determine that, as between the holders of the shares on 27 October 2008 and the directors recommend a final resulting from such subdivision, one or more of such dividend of 11.7p per 10p ordinary share, making a total shares shall have some preference on priority in respect distribution for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 17.0p of the payment of dividends or the distribution of assets per 10p ordinary share 2007: 16.2p.
Subject to approval of or otherwise over the other or others: shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 5 June 2009 to shareholders b consolidate and divide its capital or any part thereof into appearing on the register at the close of business on 24 April shares of a larger amount than its existing shares: 2009.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 22 April 2009. c cancel any shares which, at the date of the passing of the The Companys dividend reinvestment plan will continue to resolution, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by be available to eligible shareholders.
Further details of the any person plan are set out in the shareholder information section on page 114. and may by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital redemption reserve fund, and any share premium HBOS Employee Equity Solutions, the trustee of the account in any manner authorised by law.
Interserve Employee Benefit Trust, waived its right to receive a dividend over 14,695 shares held by the Trust in the name Issue of shares of Greenwood Nominees Limited in respect of the dividend Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act paid in June 2008.
Following the transfer of these shares provides that the directors may not allot shares unless in August 2008 pursuant to the Share Matching Plan, no empowered to do so by the shareholders.
A resolution giving dividend waiver has been in operation.
such authority was passed at the AGM held on 14 May 2008.
The AGM authorities were used in 2008 only in relation to Share capital the issue of shares pursuant to the executive share option The authorised share capital of the Company is 150,000,000 schemes as described above.
During the year, 264,935 shares were issued to participants in the executive Guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers the share option schemes on the exercise of options at prices ABI previously stated that the authority to allot shares of 212.00p, 253.25p and 359.33p per ordinary share.
The should not exceed an amount equal to one-third of a percentages of shares issued non-pre-emptively in 2008 and companys existing issued share capital.
The ABI has recently in the period 2006 to 2008, calculated by reference to the relaxed these guidelines and will now permit a request for Companys closing issued share capital at 31 December 2008, a general authority to allot shares equal to one-third of a were 0.21 per cent and 8.69 per cent respectively.
companys issued share capital plus an additional authority to allot a further one-third i. e. two-thirds in all provided that As a result of the foregoing allotments, the issued share the additional one-third will only be allotted pursuant to a capital at the end of the year stood at 125,016,372 2007: fully pre-emptive rights issue and is subject to certain 124,751,437 ordinary shares of 10p each 12,501,637.20 other safeguards.
It is accordingly proposed, as set out in 2007: 12,475,143.70.
Resolution 14 of the Notice of AGM, that the directors be granted general authority at any time prior to the next AGM The issued share capital at the date of this report stands at of the Company to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal 125,016,372 ordinary shares of 10p each 12,501,637.20. value of 4,166,795, and up to an aggregate nominal value of 8,333,591 where the allotment is in connection with an Details of outstanding options over shares in the Company as offer by way of rights issue.
These amounts represent at 31 December 2008 are set out in note 29 to the financial approximately one-third and two-thirds, respectively, of the statements on page 90.
Companys issued share capital as at the date of this report.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, increase its In view of the ABIs revised guidelines and in order to ensure authorised share capital by the creation of new shares.
Any that the Company has sufficient authorised share capital to capital raised by the creation of new shares shall, unless allow any additional authority given by members to allot otherwise provided by the conditions of issue, be considered shares to be used and given the forthcoming changes under as part of the original capital, and shall be subject to the the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act explained below, same provisions as if it had been part of the original capital.
46 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 the directors are seeking authority at the AGM Resolution ordinary shares for the five business days immediately 13 to increase the Companys authorised share capital to preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the 21,000,000 by the creation of an additional 60,000,000 shares concerned and ii the price stipulated by Article 5 1 ordinary shares of 10p each.
of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM With effect from 1 October 2009, the 2006 Act will abolish on 12 May 2009.
Resolution 16 set out in the Notice of AGM the requirement for a company to have an authorised share will be proposed as a special resolution in order to renew this capital, although any such provision contained in a authority.
Although the directors have no immediate plans to companys memorandum or articles of association will do so, they believe it is prudent to seek general authority operate as a deemed restriction upon the issue of shares from shareholders to be able to act if circumstances were to above that number.
Given this and other changes due to be arise in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
implemented by the 2006 Act the Company is likely to seek This power will only be exercised if and when, in the light authority to make further changes to update its Articles of of market conditions prevailing at that time, the directors Association at the 2010 AGM.
In the meantime, the directors believe that such purchases would increase earnings per share consider it appropriate that the Company should have and would be for the benefit of shareholders generally.
sufficient authorised share capital to continue to operate in an efficient and timely manner.
Any shares purchased under this authority will, unless the directors determine that they are to be held as treasury Under section 89 of the 1985 Act, if the directors wish to shares, be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will allot unissued shares for cash other than pursuant to an be reduced accordingly.
employee share scheme they must first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings a preWhilst the Company does not presently hold shares in emptive offer.
There may be occasions, however, when the treasury, the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares directors will need the flexibility to take advantage of purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be business opportunities as they arise and this cannot be done held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold under the 1985 Act unless shareholders have first waived for cash or used to meet the Companys obligations under its their pre-emption rights.
Resolution 15 set out in the Notice employee share schemes.
The authority sought by this of AGM will be proposed as a special resolution in order to resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held renew the directors authority to allot shares for cash other by the Company as treasury shares in accordance with the than by way of rights to existing shareholders up to an Treasury Shares Regulations.
By restricting such authority to an aggregate nominal value of no more than 5 Rights attaching to shares per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at the Generally date of this report, the Company will be in compliance The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles the the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can Principles.
Shareholders should note that the Listing Rules be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
The of the Financial Services Authority do not require Articles of Association may only be changed by special shareholders specific approval for each issue of shares for resolution of shareholders which requires, on a vote on a cash on a non pre-emptive basis to the extent that under show of hands, at least three-quarters of the shareholders section 95 of the 1985 Act the provisions of section 89 are or proxies present at the meeting to be in favour of the disapplied generally.
If given, this authority will expire on resolution or, on a poll, at least three-quarters in nominal the date of the next AGM of the Company.
The Principles also value of the votes cast by shareholders or their proxies to request that in any rolling three-year period a company does be in favour of the resolution.
not make non pre-emptive issues for cash or of equity securities exceeding 7.5 per cent of the companys issued A shareholder whose name appears on the register of members share capital without prior consultation with shareholders.
may choose whether those shares are evidenced by share certificates certificated form or held in electronic form The directors have no current plans to make use of the uncertificated in CREST.
authorities sought by Resolutions 13 to 15, other than the issue of shares pursuant to employee share schemes, but If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the consider it appropriate to maintain the Companys flexibility sanction of a special resolution of the Company, and any other in relation to future share issues, including any issues sanction required by law, divide amongst the shareholders the necessary to finance appropriate business opportunities, whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
He may, for should they arise.
such purposes, set such value as he deems fair upon any property to be divided and may determine how such division Repurchase of shares shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution classes of shareholders.
The liquidator may also transfer the passed at the 2008 AGM to repurchase up to 12,475,143 of the whole or any part of such assets to trustees to be held in Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The shares may be trust for the benefit of the shareholders.
No shareholder can purchased at prices ranging between the nominal value for be compelled to accept any shares or other securities which each share and an amount equal to the higher of i 105 per would give him any liability.
cent of the average of the middle market price of the Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 47 Directors report General information and disclosures continued Votes at general meetings person to whom such notice was addressed and having Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder warned such holder that unless the information required by is entitled to attend or appoint another person as his the section 793 notice is given within 14 days, the holder will representative - called a proxy - to attend and to exercise not be entitled to receive notice of any general meeting or all or any of his rights to speak and vote at any general attend any such meeting of the Company and shall not be meeting of the Company.
A member may also appoint more entitled to exercise, either personally or by proxy, the votes than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to attaching to such share or shares in respect of which the exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares disenfranchisement notice has been given unless and until held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the information required by the section 793 notice has the Company.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose Proceedings at general meetings shares are held on their behalf by another person and who At any general meeting every resolution shall be decided in has also been nominated to receive communications from the first instance by a show of hands.
On or before the the Company in accordance with section 146 of the 2006 Act declaration of the result on a show of hands, a poll may be Nominated Persons.
Nominated Persons may have a right directed by the chairman of the meeting or demanded by at under an agreement with a registered shareholder holding least two shareholders present in person or their proxies or shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone by one or more shareholders or their proxies representing else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if Nominated not less than 10 per cent of the total voting rights of all Persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting or it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give holding ordinary shares in the Company conferring a right instructions to the person holding the shares as to the to vote at the meeting on which an aggregate sum has been exercise of voting rights.
paid up equal to not less than 10 per cent of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
To be valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders or any proxy registered electronically in relation The business of an annual general meeting is to receive and to any general meeting must be delivered to the Companys consider the accounts and balance sheets and the reports registrars not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for of the directors and auditors, to elect directors in place of holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
those retiring, to elect auditors and fix their remuneration and to declare a dividend.
The amount of the dividend shall Voting by multiple corporate representatives will be operated not exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
The in accordance with the guidance issued in 2008 by the directors may also pay interim dividends on any class of Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on shares on any dates and in any amounts and in respect of any Proxies and Corporate Representatives at General Meetings.
periods as appear to the directors to be justified by the distributable profits of the Company.
Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any shares may for the time being be held, on a vote on a No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting resolution at a general meeting on a show of hands every shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be shareholder present in person, every proxy present who has eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on the than seven nor more than 21 days beforehand, the Company resolution and every authorised representative of a has been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to corporation which is a member of the Company entitled to vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person vote on the resolution shall have one vote.
Upon a vote on for election together with a notice executed by that person a resolution on a poll, every member present in person or of his willingness to be elected.
by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
No business may be transacted at a general meeting unless a If a person fails to give the Company any information quorum is present consisting of not less than two members required by a notice served on him by the Company under present in person or by proxy or by two duly authorised section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers upon public representatives of a corporation.
Two proxies of the same companies the power to require information to be supplied in member or two duly authorised representatives of the same respect of a persons interests in the Companys shares then corporation will not constitute a quorum.
the Company may, no sooner than 21 days later, and after warning that person, serve a disenfranchisement notice upon Modification of rights the shareholder whether or not he was the person to whom If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into the section 793 notice was addressed registered as the different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class holder of the share or shares in respect of which the section or any of such rights may be modified, abrogated, or varied 793 notice was given in the case of a disenfranchisement either: notice addressed to a holder who is not the person to which the section 793 notice was addressed, having annexed a with the consent of the holders of 75 per cent of the thereto a copy of the section 793 notice identifying the issued shares of that class: or 48 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 b with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Mr Thorpe was appointed as a non-executive director on separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of 1 January 2009.
As previously announced, Mr Vyse will retire the class.
as an executive director on 3 April 2009 and Mr Keegan has decided to stand down as non-executive director at the AGM The rights attached to any class of shares shall not unless in May 2009. otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of that class or by the terms upon which such shares are for As required by the Companys Articles of Association, Lord the time being held be deemed to be modified or varied Blackwell, Mr Jones and Mr Trapnell retire by rotation and, by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
who was appointed as an additional member of the Board, retires in accordance with the Companys Articles of The Company may by ordinary resolution, convert any Association and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
paid-up shares into stock, and reconvert any stock into paid-up shares of any denomination.
The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire, ordinary shares in the Company at the year end are set out in Transfer of shares the Directors remuneration report on pages 58 and 59 of this The directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to Annual report and financial statements.
register the transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share provided that this discretion may not be exercised in There have been no changes in the directors beneficial such a way as to prevent dealings from taking place in an interests in, and options to acquire, ordinary shares in the open and proper basis.
Company between the year end and the date of this report.
The directors may also decline to register the transfer of any The directors do not have any interest in any other Group certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly company.
No director has, or has had, a material interest, stamped if stampable and accompanied by the certificate directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as review in any contract significant to the Companys business.
the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
With the exception of Messrs Dance, Melizan and Thorpe, qualifying third party indemnities were put in place in 2006 Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted through in respect of liabilities suffered or incurred by each director CREST and the directors can refuse to register transfers in on or after 24 March 2006.
Qualifying third party indemnities accordance with the regulations governing the operation of were also put in place in favour of Messrs Dance and Melizan CREST.
on 10 January 2008 and Mr Thorpe on 1 January 2009, in each case upon the date of their appointment to the Board.
The directors may also suspend the registration of any The Company also undertakes to loan such funds to a director transfers of certificated shares for up to 30 days per year, as it, in its reasonable discretion, considers appropriate for by closing the register of shareholders, but may not do so the director to meet expenditure incurred by him in in relation to uncertificated shares without first obtaining defending any criminal or civil proceeding or in connection consent from CREST.
with any application under sections 144 3 or 4 of the 1985 Act or section 1157 of the 2006 Act on terms which require Directorate and directors interests and indemnities repayment by the director of amounts so advanced upon The following unless otherwise noted have been directors conviction or final judgement being given against him.
These throughout the year: qualifying third party indemnities remain in force at the date of this report.
The deeds of indemnity are available for Lord Blackwell Group Chairman inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
A M Ringrose Chief Executive G P Balfour Senior Independent Director On 26 September 2007 the rules of the Interserve Pension L G Cullen Scheme were amended in order to provide the directors of 1 S L Dance Interserve Trustees Limited, the corporate trustee of the T C Jones Interserve Pension Scheme, with a qualifying pension scheme N F Keegan indemnity to the extent that insurance has not been taken 1 B A Melizan out by the Trustee to cover its liabilities, or such liabilities D A Trapnell cannot be paid from the proceeds of any insurance taken out J H Vyse by the Trustee.
That qualifying pension scheme indemnity Non-executive director.
remains in force at the date of this report and is available for 1 Messrs Dance and Melizan were appointed to the Board on 10 January 2008. inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 49 Directors report General information and disclosures continued It is not the Companys policy to make cash donations to Substantial shareholdings political parties.
This policy is strictly adhered to and there As at 11 March 2009 the Company has been notified of the is no intention to change it.
However, the definitions used following interests in the voting rights over shares: in the 2006 Act for political donation and political expenditure remain very broad, which may have the effect Number of % of issued of covering a number of normal business activities that would Name of holder ordinary shares share capital not be considered political donations or political expenditure Lloyds Banking Group plc 8,966,664 7.17 in the usual sense.
These could include support for bodies Aberforth Partners LLP 8,206,700 6.56 engaged in law reform or governmental policy review or Newton Investment involvement in seminars and functions that may be attended Management Ltd 7,441,453 5.95 by politicians.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently Prudential plc 7,279,337 5.82 contravening the 2006 Act, the directors are again seeking Old Mutual Asset Managers 6,504,700 5.20 shareholder authority at the AGM Resolution 10 to ensure Legal & General Group Plc 6,313,140 5.05 that the Company acts within the provisions of current UK JPMorgan Chase & Co 6,300,679 5.04 law when carrying out its normal business activities.
There are no other notifiable interests, so far as the Creditor payment policy directors are aware, in the issued share capital of the It is the Groups normal practice to agree payment terms Company.
with its suppliers and abide by those terms.
Payment becomes due when it can be confirmed that goods and or services have Significant agreements been provided in accordance with the relevant contractual The following significant agreements contain provisions conditions.
Trade creditors for the Group calculated in entitling the counterparties to exercise termination rights accordance with the 1985 Act at 31 December 2008 were in the event of a change of control in the Company: 66 days 2007: 70 days.
The Companys trade creditors at 31 December 2008, calculated in accordance with the a 225 million, multi-currency, revolving credit facility requirements of the 1985 Act, were 14 days 2007: 10 days.
dated 2 May 2006 arranged by HSBC Bank plc HSBC This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc with HSBC as facility amounts invoiced to the Company in the year by its suppliers agent, under which if any person or group of persons and the amounts due, at the year end, to trade creditors acting together pursuant to an agreement or understanding falling due for payment within one year.
whether formal or informal which did not have control at the date of the facility agreement gain control of the Auditors Company the facility agent must, if the majority lenders Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP formerly Deloitte & so require, by giving not less than five business days Touche LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the prior notice to the Company, cancel the facilities and directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued at the forthcoming AGM.
interest and all other amounts accrued under those facilities, to be immediately due and payable: and Statement on information to auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this a 25 million, multi-currency, revolving credit facility report confirms that: dated 4 June 2007 provided by The Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland as original lender and a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit facility agent under which if any person or group of information of which the Companys auditors are persons acting together pursuant to an agreement or unaware: and understanding whether formal or informal which did not have control at the date of the facility agreement gain b he has made such enquiries of his fellow directors and of control of the Company the facility agent must, if the the Companys auditors and has taken such other steps as majority lenders so require, by giving not less than five were required by his duty as a director of the Company business days prior notice to the Company, cancel the to exercise due care, skill and diligence in order to make facilities and declare all outstanding loans, together with himself aware of any relevant audit information and to accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that those facilities, to be immediately due and payable.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Company during the year amounted to 29,375 2007: 35,000.
Details of the beneficiaries of donations are given on page 37 of the charitable giving section of the Corporate responsibility section of this report.
No political donations were made during the period.
50 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be presented at the AGM to be held on 12 May 2009, together with the explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders and which is also available on our website at www.
Interserve House Approved by the Board of Ruscombe Park directors and signed on Twyford behalf of the Board Reading Berkshire RG10 9JU T Bradbury Company Secretary 11 March 2009 Cautionary statement The Directors report the Report set out above has been prepared solely for existing members of the Company in compliance with UK company law and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Company, the directors and employees accept no responsibility to any other person for anything contained in the Report.
The directors liability for the Report is limited, as provided in the 2006 Act.
The Companys auditors report to the Board whether, in their opinion, the information given in the Report is consistent with the financial statements, but the Report is not audited.
Statements made in this Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
The Report contains forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and financial condition.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty.
In particular, outcomes often differ from plans or expectations expressed through forward-looking statements, and such differences may be significant.
Assurance cannot be given that any particular expectation will be met.
No responsibility is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement, resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Liability arising from anything in this Annual report and financial statements shall be governed by English Law.
Nothing in this Annual report and financial statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
