com Directors Report Governance Intertek Operations Committee 01 Stefan Butz 03 Wolfhart Hauser Group Executive Vice President Chief Executive Officer Industrial Services See Board of Directors.
Joined Intertek in 2008 04 Marc Hoffer In addition to Industrial Services, Stefan Butz has Division Executive Vice President responsibility for the Group functions of Strategy, Minerals Corporate Development and Marketing.
Stefan has Joined Intertek in 2005 held this role since January 2008, when he joined Marc Hoffer assumed his current role in January Intertek from TV SD, where he was CEO America 2008 in addition to continued responsibility for with an earlier role as Head of Corporate Interteks Oil, Chemical & Agri division in Asia.
Prior to this he was a Strategy Prior to joining Intertek Marc spent 13 years at SGS, Consultant with Accenture Germany.
part of the time as Country Manager of Taiwan, 02 Jay Gutierrez Brazil and Switzerland and part as Regional Financial Division Executive Vice President Controller for Asia and Europe.
Oil, Chemical & Agri and Government Services 05 Jonathan Lawrence Joined Intertek in 1997 Group Executive Vice President Jay Gutierrez assumed his current role in January Human Resources 2008, incorporating Government Services in January Joined Intertek in 2005 2009.
Previously, he was Vice President for the Oil, Jonathan has many years experience as an Chemical and Agri division in the Americas.
Jay international human resources director and of the began his career with Intertek with a focus to testing and inspection business based from the UK, develop the Chemical business stream, later France and the USA.
Before moving to Intertek, assuming responsibility for International he was Group Senior Vice President of Human Coordination and Sales & Marketing.
Prior to Resources at Bureau Veritas and prior to this he joining Intertek he spent eight years as General was Group Director Management Development Manager for C. J. Thibodeaux, Inc. at Valeo Automotive.
indd 34 6 3 09 00:01:46 35 Annual Report 2008 35 06 Mark Loughead 09 Gregg Tiemann Chief Operating Officer Division Executive Vice President See Board of Directors.
Commercial & Electrical Joined Intertek in 1993 07 Bill Spencer Prior to assuming his current role in January 2008 Chief Financial Officer Gregg Tiemann was President of Interteks See Board of Directors.
Commercial & Electrical division in Europe and the 08 Andrew Swift Americas since 2004, having started as General Division Executive Vice President Manager of the Los Angeles and Mexico City Analytical Services laboratories, becoming Vice President of Sales for Joined Intertek in 2001 the Americas, then Senior Vice President in 2003.
Prior to assuming his current role, in January 2008, Gregg began his career in sales and marketing for Andrew Swift was Vice President of Global the high technology sector.
Outsourcing within Interteks Oil, Chemical & Agri 10 Paul Yao division, having originally started as Business Group Executive Vice President Development Manager and then Director of Global Consumer Goods Outsourcing.
Andrew began his career by launching Joined Intertek in 1994 CSMA Ltd, where he became Managing Director Paul Yao was appointed a member of the Executive in 1993. management team on 1 July 2006.
Prior to this, from January 2003 he was Vice President with responsibility for Consumer Goods in China and Taiwan.
Before joining Intertek, Paul worked in Regional Sales & Marketing for companies such as Hitachi Chemical, Brent Plc and SISIR Singapore.
