PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of accounting i provision is made for tax on gains arising from fair value These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention adjustments of fixed assets or gains on disposal of fixed assets and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
that have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the The policies are consistent with the previous year except for extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding the adoption of the following new or amended standards and agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no interpretations: provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the FRS 29 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures: taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: Amendment to FRS FRS 26 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: ii provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on Measurement Recognition and Derecognition: remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, UITF Abstract 44 IFRIC Interpretation 11 FRS 20 IFRS 2 Group associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the and Treasury Share Transactions: balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: and UITF Abstract 42 IFRIC Interpretation 9 Reassessment of iii deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is Embedded Derivatives: and considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences UITF Abstract 41 IFRIC Interpretation 8 Scope of FRS 20 IFRS 2. can be deducted.
Adoption of these standards and interpretations has not had any material effect on the financial statements of the Company.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax Foreign currencies rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling sheet date.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of Share-based payment exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The Company operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share schemes.
For equity-settled share options, the services All exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account received from employees are measured by reference to the fair for the year.
value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and recognised in the Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits profit and loss account, together with a corresponding increase in For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement shareholders equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating period, based on an estimate of the number of options that will profit or loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, defined benefit schemes is determined separately for each scheme are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
Market using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full conditions are those conditions that are linked to the share price cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service of the Company.
is also charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The net surplus or deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated on the balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.
based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable, any market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit period based on the number of shares expected to vest.
No and loss account in respect of pension costs is the contributions expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, with payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the exception of awards where vesting is conditional upon a market the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as condition: these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are met.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less For cash-settled share awards, the services received from provisions for impairment where a permanent diminution in value employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and has been identified.
recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured Borrowing costs at each reporting date and at the date of settlement with changes Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
in fair value recognised in the profit and loss account.
Debt instruments Treasury shares Borrowings are stated at net proceeds received after deduction of Own equity instruments which are reacquired treasury shares are issue costs.
The issue costs of debt instruments are amortised over deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss the life of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Treasury shares are purchased and held by the Taxation Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares to Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that employees under the Groups various share option and share have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where award schemes.
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the future, with the following exceptions: Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 125
