ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statement of compliance The principal effects of these changes are as follows: The Groups Consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance IFRS 7 has replaced the disclosure requirements previously with the Companies Act 1985. included in IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation.
IFRS 7 requires disclosures that enable users to Basis of preparation evaluate the significance of the Groups financial instruments and The accounting policies which follow set out the policies and the nature and extent of risks arising from those financial measurement bases that have been applied in preparing the instruments.
In general, these disclosures are equivalent to those financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008.
The made previously under IAS 32.
The new disclosures are included Consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling and throughout the financial statements.
The most significant changes all amounts are rounded to the nearest million m unless are in Note 19, Trade and other receivables, and Note 22, Financial otherwise indicated.
risk management and financial instruments.
The Groups date of transition to IFRSs was 1 April 2004.
IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures Basis of consolidation This amendment requires the Group to make new disclosures to The Consolidated financial statements comprise Invensys plc enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the Groups and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results objectives, policies and processes for managing capital.
These new of its associates for the financial year to 31 March each year.
disclosures are shown in Note 22, Financial risk management and The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the financial instruments.
same reporting year as the Parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Other than the changes to disclosures noted above, adoption of these standards and interpretations has not had any material effect All intragroup balances and transactions have been eliminated.
on the financial statements of the Group.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are Exceptional items consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes.
Exceptional items are material items of income and expense that should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase Groups financial performance and in making projections of future method.
The cost of the business combination is measured as results.
Such items may be operating or non-operating in nature.
the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and Exceptional items are presented separately on the face of the liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs income statement and analysed in the Notes to the financial directly attributable to the acquisition.
and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the Foreign currencies acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The presentation currency of the Group and functional currency The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the of Invensys plc is sterling.
Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries and associates are prepared using their functional currency.
The In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time functional currency is the currency of the primary economic Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied by environment in which an entity operates.
the Group on transition to IFRSs, business combinations prior to IFRS transition have not been restated to comply with IFRS 3, Foreign currency transactions Business Combinations.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies previous financial year except as follows: are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs and statement unless: International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations during the year.
a the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the hedging instrument in a cash-flow hedging relationship that IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures qualifies for hedge accounting: or IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements: b the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part Capital Disclosures of a net investment in a foreign operation: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives in which case they are recognised directly in equity.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the initial transaction.
68 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value in a If the nature of a particular contract means that costs incurred foreign currency are translated at the rates prevailing when the fair do not accurately reflect the progress of contract activity, an value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are alternative approach is used such as the achievement of included in the income statement for the period, except for pre-determined contract milestones.
exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts when certain Financial statements of foreign operations criteria are met.
Variations are included when the customer has The trading results of overseas subsidiaries and associates are agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation translated into sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations with the the year.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer goodwill, are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange is certain to accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included ruling at the balance sheet date.
All resulting exchange differences when a contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
On performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are transferred to the Consolidated Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final income statement, as part of the profit or loss on sale.
outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, full provision is made for any losses in the year in which Translation differences that arose before the date of transition they are first foreseen.
to IFRS are presented in equity but not as a separate component.
Cumulative translation differences on foreign operations were Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis is deemed to be zero at that date.
When the foreign operation is recognised when the service is complete.
sold, these cumulative exchange differences are not recognised in the income statement.
When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a significant service, revenue from the provision of the service Revenue is recognised separately from the revenue from the sale of goods Composition of revenue by reference to the stage of completion of the service unless the Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services service is essential to the functionality of the goods supplied, in supplied by the Group excluding intragroup transactions, sales which case the whole transaction is treated as a construction by associated undertakings and sales taxes.
Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply construction contracts, including long-term service provision of goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the contracts, represents the value of work performed during the year supply of goods.
determined by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Discounts given to customers against list prices, such as Research and development trade or volume discounts, are deducted in arriving at the value of All research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Settlement discounts are reported as an expense in the expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria income statement.
for recognition as an intangible asset see policy on Other intangible assets.
Recognition of revenue and profits Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement reliably measured.
The specific methods used to recognise the benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below.
profit or loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using Sale of goods the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service is risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the also charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected buyer and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
return on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the For sales of software solutions, revenue is recognised when a market value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year is signed contract exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, no included within other finance charges IAS 19.
This also includes significant vendor obligations remain and collection of the sales a charge representing the expected increase in liabilities of the proceeds is considered probable.
A contract to deliver goods, schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities of the scheme including software solutions, that requires significant production, being one year closer to payment.
Differences between actual and modification, customisation or integration of the goods, is expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the accounted for in its entirety as a construction contract.
statement of recognised income and expense in the year, together with differences from changes in assumptions.
The net surplus or Profit is recognised at the time of sale.
deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported on the balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.
Construction contracts and rendering of services Revenue from construction contracts, including long-term service For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the provision contracts, is recognised by reference to the stage of income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in normally determined by the proportion that contract costs the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 69 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Goodwill incurred in the following development stage for substantially On a business combination, the net fair value of the identifiable new or improved products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is assessed and and considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of criteria.
These costs are generally incurred in developing the businesses acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
The detailed product design, software configuration and software excess of the price paid over the Groups interest in the fair value interfaces: the coding of software, building of prototypes and of identifiable net assets acquired is included in intangible assets as integration of the software with hardware: and testing and goodwill.
Any costs of integrating the acquired business are taken releasing the product to manufacture and pilot production.
Development expenditure directed towards incremental Goodwill arising on business combinations before 1 April 2004 has improvements in existing products does not qualify for recognition been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being as an intangible asset.
tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not In general the costs of developing software products that are sold included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are not recognised as intangible assets.
The uncertainties associated Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or with the functionality of these products mean that technical more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that feasibility is achieved only immediately prior to or after field trial the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently carried tests at customer sites.
As a result minimal or no costs are at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups policy on considered to meet the IAS 38 criteria for recognition.
testing assets for impairment is set out under Impairment of nonfinancial assets below.
An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is recognised separately from the goodwill arising on the business Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying combination if the assets fair value can be measured reliably, amount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
regardless of whether the asset had been recognised previously by the acquiree.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
Property, plant and equipment Other intangible assets Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair price and directly attributable costs.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is lives at the following rates applied to original cost: calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost less residual Freehold land nil value of assets over their estimated useful lives using the following Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% annual rates: Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease Development costs 10 to 25% Plant and equipment 7 to 35% Computer software costs 10 to 25% Patents, trademarks and licenses Shorter of period Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis and of the agreement or 15 years adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments Impairment of non-financial assets where applicable are made on a prospective basis.
No intangible At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any assets other than goodwill are considered to have indefinite indication that any non-financial asset excluding goodwill may be useful lives.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether or not there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill was also tested for Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
If there is an indication an intangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in of impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the assets IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
These require it to be probable that the recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable measured reliably.
To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able amount and an impairment loss is recognised in the income to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of statement.
completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project asset.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely are considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the independent of those from other assets or groups of assets the income statement as incurred.
These costs are incurred to recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset determine the product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the belongs is determined.
alternatives and related risks, assess the technical feasibility of concepts, make the final selection from the possible alternatives The calculation of an assets value in use uses a discount rate that and prepare the high level design and project planning.
The costs reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
70 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 Leased assets Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial value of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalised leased assets reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or all taxable temporary differences: the assets useful life.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as except where the deferred income tax liability arises from appropriate within liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with Other leases are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments, investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable on a straight-line basis.
that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible and an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one can be utilised, except: of the following applies: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of or extension of the arrangement: an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and lease term: in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with c there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint is dependant on a specified asset: or ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent d there is a substantial change to the asset.
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or which the temporary differences can be utilised.
ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at or extension period for scenario b. each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to Inventories allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each realisable value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it is items.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all first-in, first-out cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of labour or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
and manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity, to reflect the costs incurred in bringing the product to its present Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to location and condition.
apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance Cash and cash equivalents sheet date.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits and other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and months or less.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are offset equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
against bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off exist and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current Taxation tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are and the same taxation authority.
measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 71 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Financial instruments Other financial assets Derivative financial instruments Other financial assets are recognised initially at fair value and The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts and subsequently measured as follows: a at fair value for  rate swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuations in sale financial assets.
Gains and losses are recognised in equity except interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from these accounted for as hedges when designated as hedges at the inception assets which are recognised in the income statement: b at fair of the contract.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial value for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
instruments for financial trading purposes.
Net gains or losses are based on changes in fair value: and c at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, for held-toAll derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value maturity financial assets.
Changes to the carrying amount of held-toin the balance sheet.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange maturity financial assets are recognised in the income statement.
contracts and interest rate swaps are calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less maturity profiles.
Trade and other receivables are discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is Any change in their value is recognised in the income statement.
carried out according to the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges fall into three categories: Debt instruments All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the a Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the consideration received less directly attributable issue costs.
fair value of a recognised asset or liability: b Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast interest rate method.
This cost is computed as the amount initially transaction, or the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment: recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the and cumulative amortisation of any difference between the initially c Net investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in the recognised amount and the maturity amount.
Amortised cost is value of the Groups net investment in foreign operations due to calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount foreign currency exposure.
The accounting treatment for these categories is outlined below: Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation Fair value hedges process.
When the hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain Financial guarantee contracts or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk is A financial guarantee contract is a contract issued by the Group that adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse the similarly recognised in the income statement.
holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the Cash flow and net investment hedges original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
In a very limited The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is number of cases, the Group has issued such contracts to guarantee determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Any certain borrowings by third parties.
ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
When a hedged cash flow related to a hedged item Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognised at fair value and results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the subsequently measured at the higher of a the estimated outflow of associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are resources required to meet any present obligation under the included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all contract in accordance with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in and Contingent Assets, and b the amount initially recognised less, equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance which the hedged item affects the income statement on disposal of with IAS 18, Revenue.
the hedged investment in the case of a net investment hedge.
Derecognition of financial instruments Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups net investment in A financial instrument is derecognised when the Group no longer foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the borrowings controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial that is determined to be an effective hedge, in accordance with IAS instrument.
Financial assets Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised in the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial the income statement.
assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: heldto-maturity investments: or as available for sale financial assets, as Derivative instruments held by the Groups pension and postappropriate.
retirement benefit schemes are accounted for within the schemes themselves and are reflected in the Group financial statements A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or within the amounts reported for those schemes.
part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised where: 72 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: If the amount of a recognised impairment loss decreases in a the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively to an but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously material delay to a third party under a pass-through recognised impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal is recognised in arrangement: or the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
the asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor For trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or has transferred control of the asset.
significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained substantially reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the Available-for-sale financial investments form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss Where continuing involvement takes the form of a written and or previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from purchased option including a cash-settled option or similar equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity provision on the transferred asset, the extent of the Groups instruments classified as available for sale are not recognised in continuing involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt the Group may repurchase, except that in the case of a written put instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the option including a cash-settled option or similar provision on an increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related asset measured at fair value, the extent of the Groups continuing to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the the income statement.
transferred asset and the option exercise price.
Share-based payment Financial liabilities The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled share A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the schemes.
For equity-settled share options, the services received from liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date using a valuation Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the model and recognised in the Consolidated income statement, same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an together with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective other than market conditions, are not taken into account when carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Market conditions are those conditions that are linked to the share price of the Company.
Impairment of financial assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial asset For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is calculated or group of financial assets is impaired.
based on the share price at the grant date and, where applicable, any market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period Assets carried at amortised cost based on the number of shares expected to vest.
No expense is Assets carried at amortised cost, such as loans and receivables, are recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, with the exception impaired if there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has of awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition: been incurred.
The loss is measured as the difference between the these are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not conditions are met.
been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial For cash-settled share awards, the services received from employees recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through are measured at fair value and recognised in the Consolidated use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is income statement as an expense over the vesting period with recognised in the income statement.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the date of The assessment considers whether objective evidence of impairment settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the Consolidated exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, income statement.
and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit by the Group on transition to IFRSs, the requirements of IFRS 2, risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively Share-based Payment, have not been applied to equity instruments assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for granted on or before 7 November 2002 and those vesting before impairment and for which an impairment loss is recognised are not 1 January 2005. included in a collective assessment of impairment.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 73 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Treasury shares Impairment of goodwill Own equity instruments which are reacquired treasury shares The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Treasury shares are purchased and held Estimating a value in use amount requires management to make by the Employee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cashto employees under the Groups various share option and share generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order award schemes.
to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2008 was 215 million 2007: New standards and interpretations not applied 206 million.
Further details are given in Note 13.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these Pension and post-retirement benefits financial statements: The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post employment medical benefits is determined using actuarial Effective date financial periods valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs beginning on or after about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future IFRS 8 Operating Segments 1 January 2009 salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs revised 1 January 2009 Due to the long term nature of these plans, such estimates are IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 1 January 2009 subject to significant uncertainty.
The net pension liability at Statements revised 31 March 2008 is 218 million 2007: 522 million.
Further details IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised 1 July 2009 are given in Note 25.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate 1 July 2009 Financial Statements amended Development costs IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based 1 January 2009 Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the Groups Payment Vesting Conditions accounting policy for other intangible assets.
Determining the and Cancellations amounts to be capitalised requires management to make IAS 32 Amendments to IAS 32 Financial 1 January 2009 assumptions and estimates regarding the expected future cash & IAS 1 Instruments: Presentation and generation of the assets and the expected period of benefits.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial At 31 March 2008, the carrying amount of capitalised development Statements Puttable Financial costs was 81 million 2007: 76 million.
Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group currently recognises provisions for a number of liabilities including environmental claims and onerous lease International Financial Reporting Interpretations Effective date financial periods Committee IFRIC beginning on or after rentals.
The amounts recognised for provisions represent the best estimate of the probable outflow of resources embodying IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements 1 January 2008 economic benefits that will be required to settle these liabilities.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes 1 July 2008 No provisions are recognised for contingent liabilities.
Contingent IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit 1 January 2008 liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements only by uncertain future events, or current obligations that are and their Interaction not recognised because it is not probable that they will result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits or The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these because the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the sufficient reliability.
Group financial statements in the period of initial application.
The determination of whether a liability should be disclosed as a Upon adoption of IFRS 8, the Group will be required to adopt the contingent liability or recognised as a provision requires judgments management approach to reporting on the financial performance to be made on the existence of a present obligation and the of its operating segments, so that the segment information to be probability of future events.
When a provision is required, the reported would generally be what management uses internally for amount recognised is determined using judgments and assumptions, evaluating segment performance and deciding how to allocate based on current knowledge, to estimate the amount and timing resources to operating segments.
The Group is still evaluating the of future cash outflows arising from the liabilities.
At 31 March effect of this standard, but considers that its adoption will not have 2008, the estimated amount of liabilities requiring provisions a significant impact on the segment information reported.
Further details are given in will be no effect on reported income or net assets.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are set out in Note 30.
Critical accounting judgments, estimates and assumptions In applying the Groups accounting policies, management is required to make judgments and assumptions concerning the future in a number of areas.
Actual results may be different from those estimated using these judgments and assumptions.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgments that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
74 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008
