Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 51 Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The Group accounts consolidate those of ITV plc, the Company, a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interests in associates and jointly controlled entities.
As required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Groups accounts have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
The accounts are principally prepared on the historical cost basis.
Areas where other bases are applied are identified in the accounting policies below.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The disclosures on page 36 in respect of going concern form part of the audited accounts.
The Group early adopted IFRS 8 Operating segments in 2007, the effect of which was disclosed in the prior year.
The Group has adopted IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and treasury share transactions at 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 11 provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving group entities should be accounted for as equity settled or cash settled transactions, and addresses issues concerning share-based payment arrangements that involve two or more entities within the same group.
The Group has also adopted IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction at 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 14 provides additional guidance on assessing the amount that can be recognised as an asset of a defined benefit pension surplus and as a consequence the amount of deferred tax on that surplus.
Neither of these interpretations have had a material impact on Groups results at 31 December 2008 or in previous years.
The accounting policies set out below, except as noted above, have been applied consistently in presenting the consolidated financial information.
1.2 Revenue recognition Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT and consists of sales of goods and services to third parties.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership and control of the goods sold and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Key classes of revenue are recognised on the following bases: Advertising and sponsorship on transmission Programme production on delivery Programme rights when contracted and available for exploitation Participation revenues as the service is provided Revenue on barter transactions is recognised only when the goods or services being exchanged are of a dissimilar nature.
1.3 Segmental analysis In accordance with IFRS 8, operating segments are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Management Committee.
The Management Committee comprises the executive directors.
1.4 Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest under a contractual arrangement where the Group and one or more other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
An associate is an entity, other than a subsidiary or joint venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating decisions of an entity but is not control or joint control over those policies.
These investments are accounted for using the equity method.
1.5 Current non-current distinction Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or consumption in, the course of the Groups operating cycle.
All other assets are classified as non-current assets.
Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the Groups operating cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities.
1.6 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or where the most sensitive estimates and assumptions are significant to affecting the financial statements are set out in accounting policies 1.7 - 1.14 below: ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 52 1 Accounting policies continued 1.7 Intangible assets Business combinations and goodwill All business combinations that have occurred since 1 January 2004 are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Subsequent adjustments to the fair values of net assets acquired are made within 12 months of the acquisition date where original fair values were determined provisionally.
These adjustments are accounted for from the date of acquisition.
For business combinations prior to this date, but after 30 September 1998, goodwill is included at its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under UK GAAP at that time less amortisation up to 31 December 2003.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations occurring prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has not been reconsidered as permitted under IFRS 1.
Goodwill is stated at its recoverable amount being cost less any accumulated impairment losses and is allocated to cash-generating units.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 30 September 1998 was recognised as a deduction from equity.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation except those identifiable intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination which are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations less accumulated amortisation.
Identifiable intangible assets are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights.
In determining the fair value of intangible assets arising on acquisition the directors are required to make judgements regarding the timing and amount of future cash flows applicable to the businesses being acquired, discounted using an appropriate discount rate.
Such judgements are based on current budgets and forecasts, extrapolated for an appropriate period taking into account growth rates, expected changes to selling prices, operating costs and the expected useful lives of assets following purchase.
Judgements are also made regarding whether and for how long licences will be renewed.
The directors estimate the appropriate discount rate using post tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the businesses being acquired.
Amortisation Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are judged to be indefinite.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at each balance sheet date.
The estimated useful lives and amortisation methods for each major class of intangible asset are as follows: Film libraries Sum of digits 20 years Licences Straight line 11 to 17 years Brands Straight line up to 11 years Customer contracts Straight line up to 6 years Customer relationships Straight line 5 to 10 years Software development costs Straight line 1 to 5 years From 1 January 2008, the Group changed its estimated useful life for amortising capitalised website development costs, from 3 years to 1 year based on its experience of the pace of change in this area.
The change has been applied prospectively from the start of 2008 because it was a change in accounting estimate rather than policy.
The effect on the current year is to increase amortisation expense by 3 million with an estimated decrease to the amortisation charge in 2009 of 2 million.
1.8 Impairment of assets Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Non-financial assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use is based on the discounted present value of the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash generating unit to which the asset relates.
Estimates are used in deriving these cash flows and the discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the risks specific to the asset and the time value of money.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the intangible asset accounting policies affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
In particular, if different estimates of the projected future cash flows or a different selection of an appropriate discount rate or long-term growth rate were made, these changes could materially alter the projected value of the cash flows of the asset, and as a consequence materially different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
1.9 Programme rights Where programming, sports rights and film rights are acquired for the primary purpose of broadcasting, these are recognised within current assets.
Assets are recognised when the Group controls, in substance, the respective assets and the risks and rewards associated with them.
For acquired programme rights assets are recognised as payments are made and are recognised in full when the acquired programming is available for transmission.
Programming produced internally, either for the purpose of broadcasting or to be sold in the normal course of the Groups operating cycle, is recognised within current assets at production cost.
Programme costs and rights, including those acquired under sale and leaseback arrangements, are written off to operating costs in full on first transmission except certain film rights and programming for digital channels which are written off over a number of transmissions.
Programme costs and rights not yet written off are included in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In assessing net realisable value consideration is given to the contracted sales price and estimated costs to complete for programmes in production, and the estimated airtime value of programme stock, sports rights and film rights.
In assessing the airtime value of programme stock and film rights consideration is given to whether the number of transmissions purchased can be efficiently played out over the licence period.
Any reversals of write downs for programme costs and rights are recognised as a reduction in operating costs.
Outstanding sale and leaseback obligations, which comprise the principal and accrued interest, are included within borrowings.
The finance element of the agreement is charged to the income statement over the term of the lease on a systematic basis.
Sale and leaseback obligations are secured against an equivalent cash balance held within cash and cash equivalents.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 53 1 Accounting policies continued 1.10 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value.
The Group provides goods and services to substantially all its customers on credit terms.
Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables that will not, in the opinion of the Directors, be collected.
These estimates include such factors as historical experience, the current state of the UK and overseas economies and industry specific factors.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is sufficient evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to their original terms.
1.11 Taxation The tax charge for the period comprises both current and deferred tax and is based on tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method on any temporary differences between the carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes and those for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become due which requires judgement.
Amounts are accrued based on managements interpretation of specific tax law and the likelihood of settlement.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to utilise the temporary difference.
Recognition of deferred tax assets, therefore, involves judgement regarding the timing and level of future taxable income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed net to the extent that they relate to taxes levied by the same authority and the Group has the right of set off.
1.12 Employee benefits Defined contribution schemes Obligations under the Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups obligation in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the fair value of scheme assets is deducted.
The discount rate used is the yield at the valuation date on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions which include life expectancy of members, expected salary and pension increases, inflation and the return on scheme assets.
It is important to note, however, that comparatively small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the income statement and balance sheet.
The calculations are performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they arise through the statement of recognised income and expense.
Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes.
The fair value of the equity instrument is measured at grant date and spread over the vesting period through the income statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the share options and awards is measured using either a Monte Carlo or Black-Scholes model as appropriate taking into account the terms and conditions of the individual scheme.
Under these valuation methods, the share price for ITV plc is projected to the end of the performance period as is the Total Shareholder Return for ITV plc and the companies in the comparator group.
Based on these projections, the number of awards that will vest and their present value is determined.
The valuation of these share-based payments also requires estimates to be made in respect of the number of options that are expected to be exercised.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
1.13 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses a limited number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and other foreign exchange rates.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value with the movement recorded in the income statement.
The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined by using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
Third party valuations are used to fair value the Groups derivatives.
The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest rate yield curves and currency prices yields, volatilities of underlying instruments and correlations between inputs.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
For financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss the fair value change and interest income expense are not separated.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 54 1 Accounting policies continued 1.14 Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation arising from past events, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and that the amount can be measured reliably.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows by a rate which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability based on an appropriate gilt rate.
These provisions are estimates for which the amount and timing of actual cash flows are dependent on future events.
1.15 Property, plant and equipment Owned assets Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that had been revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount less depreciation up to the date of transition.
Leases Finance leases are those which transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Assets held under such leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and depreciation is provided as appropriate.
Outstanding finance lease obligations, which comprise the principal plus accrued interest, are included within borrowings.
The finance element of the agreements is charged to the income statement over the term of the lease on a systematic basis.
All other leases are operating leases, the rentals on which are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment less estimated residual value on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to the estimated useful life of each asset and the expected residual value at the end of its life.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: Freehold land not depreciated Freehold buildings up to 60 years Leasehold properties improvements shorter of residual lease term or 60 years Vehicles, equipment and fittings 3 to 20 years 1.16 Distribution rights Programme rights acquired primarily for the purposes of distribution are classified within the balance sheet as non-current assets.
They are recognised initially at cost and charged through the income statement over either a three or five year period depending on genre.
The estimated lives are based on historical experience with similar rights as well as anticipation of future events.
1.17 Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets comprise gilts and equity securities which do not meet the definition of subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
They are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised directly in the available for sale reserve in equity, unless the loss is a permanent impairment when it is recorded in the income statement.
1.18 Foreign currencies Functional and presentational currency Items included in the financial statements in each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the respective Group entity at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency of the respective Group entity at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
Financial statements of foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into the functional currency of the respective group entity at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into the functional currency of the respective group entity at the average rate of exchange ruling during the financial period.
Exchange differences arising on translation are recognised directly in the translation reserve in equity.
Net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken directly to the translation reserve within equity.
In respect of all foreign operations only those translation differences arising since 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component of equity as permitted under IFRS 1.
On disposal of an investment in a foreign operation the associated translation reserve balance is released to the income statement.
1.19 Exceptional items Exceptional items, as disclosed on the face of the income statement, are items which due to their material and non-recurring nature have been classified separately in order to draw them to the attention of the reader of the accounts and, in managements judgement, to show more accurately the underlying profits of the Group.
1.20 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, call deposits with maturity of less than or equal to three months from the date of acquisition, cash held to meet certain finance lease commitments and gilts over which unfunded pension promises have a charge.
1.21 Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially and subsequently at fair value.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 55 1 Accounting policies continued 1.22 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, and in subsequent periods at amortised cost.
The difference between cost and redemption value is recorded in the income statement over the period of the liability on an effective interest basis.
Where the Group has identified that any such liabilities result in a mismatch between the accounting liability and the related derivative, the Group has adopted the fair value option provision of IAS 39 revised to eliminate this accounting mismatch.
Management consider that this fair value treatment is more appropriate than amortised cost as the movements in these financial instruments largely offset each other and, as a result, they are managed on an aggregated basis.
The effect of this is that the Group recognises any such financial liabilities at fair value in all periods subsequent to initial recognition, with resultant gains or losses recorded in the income statement.
1.23 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use, they are available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets or disposal groups are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No amortisation or depreciation is charged on non-current assets including those in disposal groups classified as held for sale.
Assets classified as held for sale are disclosed separately on the face of the balance sheet and classified as current assets or liabilities with disposal groups being separated between assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale.
1.24 ITV shares held by Employee Benefit Trusts EBT Transactions of the Group-sponsored EBT are included in the Groups accounts.
In particular, the EBTs purchases of shares in ITV plc are debited directly to equity.
1.25 Dividends Dividends are recognised through equity in the period in which they are declared and, if required, approved by the Companys shareholders.
1.26 Investment income Investment income comprises dividends received from the Groups investments.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the Groups right to receive payment is established.
1.27 Net financing costs Net financing costs principally comprise interest payable, foreign exchange gains losses, finance charges on finance leases, interest receivable on funds invested, gains and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement, the difference between cost and redemption value of borrowings and the expected return on pension scheme assets net of the interest cost on liabilities.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 56 1 Accounting policies continued 1.28 Application of new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments to existing EU endorsed standards and interpretations New standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed by the EU and effective in 2008 Relevant to the Groups results IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and This interpretation provides guidance on whether share-based transactions involving treasury share Group entities should be accounted for as equity settled or cash settled transactions, and addresses issues concerning share-based payment arrangements transactions that involve two or more entities within the same group.
IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The limit on a defined benefit This interpretation applies to all post-employment defined benefits and other asset, minimum funding requirements long-term employee defined benefits.
The interpretation addresses when and their interaction.
refunds or reductions in future contributions should be regarded as available in accordance with IAS 19, how a minimum funding requirement might affect the availability of reductions in future contributions and when a minimum funding requirement might give rise to a liability.
These interpretations have had no material effect on the Groups results in 2008 or previous years.
Not relevant to the Groups results IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes.
Where a customer loyalty programme operates, IFRIC 13 requires an entity to separate sales revenue into revenue from sale of the goods or services and revenue from sale of the loyalty points, with the latter being deferred until the loyalty points are redeemed.
IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Amendment to IAS 39 Financial An amendment to the Standards, issued in October 2008, permits an entity to Instruments: Recognition and reclassify non-derivative financial assets other than those designated at fair value Measurement and IFRS 7 Financial through profit or loss by the entity upon initial recognition out of the fair value Instruments: Disclosures.
through profit or loss category in particular circumstances.
New standards, amendments and interpretations endorsed by the EU but not yet effective Relevant to the Groups results Improvements to The Improvements to IFRS contain 24 An amendment to IAS 10 'Events after the Reporting Period' states that if dividends IFRS amendments that result in accounting are declared ie the dividends are appropriately authorised and no longer at the changes for presentation, recognition or discretion of the entity after the reporting period but before the financial measurement purposes.
The effective statements are authorised for issue, the dividends are not recognised as a liability at dates and transitional requirements are the end of the reporting period because no obligation exists at that time.
Such dividends are disclosed in the notes in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of set out on a standard by standard basis.
This will affect the timing of the recognition of the Groups In addition there are 11 terminology or interim dividend.
editorial amendments that are expected to have no or only minimal effects on accounting.
IFRS 2 Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based The definition of vesting conditions in IFRS 2 has been amended to clarify that Payment: Vesting Conditions and vesting conditions are limited to service conditions and performance conditions.
Conditions other than service or performance conditions are considered non-vesting conditions.
IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of The Group will be required to present both a statement of comprehensive income Financial Statements - A revised and a statement of changes in equity as financial statements.
comprehensive income effectively replaces the current statement of recognised income and expense SORIE.
This represents a change from the current requirement to present only one financial statement: a SORIE or a statement of all changes in equity.
Not relevant to the Groups results IAS 23 Amendment to IAS 23 Borrowing costs.
The revision of IAS 23 removes the option of immediately recognising an expense for borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset.
A qualifying asset is one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The effect on the Group is not expected to be material.
IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost The amendments require all dividends from a subsidiary, jointly-controlled entity or associate to be recognised as income when the right to receive the dividend is of an investment in a subsidiary, jointlyestablished.
A consequential amendment to IAS 36 outlines when the receipt of controlled entity or associate.
dividend income is deemed to be an indicator of impairment.
IAS 32 and IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 32 Financial The amendments provide exemptions from the requirement to classify as a liability, Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 financial instruments under which an entity has an unavoidable obligation to deliver Presentation of Financial Statements.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 57 2 Operating segmental information The Management Committee considers the business primarily from a product perspective.
The reportable segments are therefore Broadcasting, Global Content, Online and Other.
All of the segments reported meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8, which the Group first adopted in 2007.
Management has determined the reportable segments based on the reports reviewed by the Management Committee.
Broadcasting is responsible for commissioning and scheduling programmes on the ITV channels, marketing and programme publicity.
It derives its revenue primarily from the sale of advertising airtime and sponsorship.
Other sources of revenue are from premium rate services and the digital terrestrial multiplex SDN.
The Broadcasting segment also includes the investment in stv group plc formerly SMG plc.
Global Content derives its revenue primarily from ITV Studios in the UK a commercial production company, international production centres in America, Germany, Sweden and Australia and the businesses in ITV Global Entertainment IGEL.
A proportion of revenue is generated internally via programme sales to the Broadcasting segment.
IGEL sells programming and exploits merchandising and licensing worldwide, and is a distributor of DVD entertainment in the UK.
Online derives its revenue from two main areas: broadband and mobile.
Mobile manages ITVs mobile portal and arranges distribution of ITVs channels and content on mobile networks.
Other comprises the Groups 100% interest in Carlton Screen Advertising CSA, which sells cinema screen advertising in the UK, and its 50% interest in Screenvision, which operates cinema screen advertising businesses in continental Europe and the United States.
The segment information provided for the reportable segments for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 is as follows: Broadcasting Global Content Online Other Consolidated 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m m m m m Total segment revenue 1,652 1,750 622 564 36 33 40 67 2,350 2,414 Intersegment revenue 5 12 316 320 321 332 Revenue from external customers 1,647 1,738 306 244 36 33 40 67 2,029 2,082 EBITA before exceptional items 140 244 90 90 20 12 1 11 211 311 Share of loss profit from joint ventures and associated undertakings 2 4 2 11 2 15 2 Total segment assets 1,589 3,934 645 590 115 419 65 84 2,414 5,027 Total assets include: Investments in associates and joint ventures 14 12 1 4 2 51 61 66 79 Additions to noncurrent assets other than financial instruments 29 46 44 68 8 8 10 1 91 123 Total segment liabilities 492 389 294 226 27 74 5 18 818 707 Sales between segments are carried out at arms length.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Management Committee is measured in a manner consistent with the income statement.
Income statement and balance sheet allocations between reportable segments are performed on a consistent basis with the exception of pension costs, which are allocated, and pension assets and liabilities, which are not.
This reflects the basis of reporting to the Management Committee.
The Management Committee assesses the performance of the reportable segments based on a measure of EBITA before exceptional items.
This measurement basis excludes the effect of non-recurring income and expenditure.
Amortisation, investment income and share of profits of joint ventures and associates are also excluded as they are not reflective of the underlying business.
Net financing costs are not allocated to segments as this type of activity is driven by the central treasury and taxation functions, which manage the cash and taxation position of the Group.
A reconciliation of EBITA before exceptional items to loss profit before tax is provided as follows: 2008 2007 m m EBITA before exceptional items 211 311 Operating exceptional items 97 35 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 2,761 84 Net financing costs 60 33 Share of losses profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings 15 2 Investment income 1 1 Gain on sale, net of impairment, of properties exceptional items 17 9 Gain on sale, net of impairment, of subsidiaries and investments exceptional items 6 17 Loss profit before tax 2,732 188 ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 58 2 Operating segmental information continued The amounts provided to the Management Committee with respect to total assets are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
These assets are allocated based on the operations of the segment.
Reportable segments assets are reconciled to total assets as follows: 2008 2007 m m Segment assets 2,414 5,027 Unallocated: Held to maturity investments 100 Assets held for sale 3 59 Derivative financial instruments 218 36 Cash and cash equivalents 616 498 Total assets per the balance sheet 3,251 5,720 The amounts provided to the Management Committee with respect to total liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
These liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment.
Reportable segments liabilities are reconciled to total liabilities as follows: 2008 2007 m m Segment liabilities 818 707 Unallocated: Interest accruals 30 23 Derivative financial instruments 32 10 Borrowings 1,523 1,296 Current tax liabilities 56 206 Net deferred tax liability 55 75 Dividends 25 52 Defined benefit pension deficit 178 112 Total liabilities per the balance sheet 2,717 2,481 The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom.
Its revenue from external customers in the United Kingdom is 1,821 million 2007: 1,929 million, and the total revenue from external customers in other countries is 208 million 2007: 153 million.
The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets, and employment benefit assets there are no rights arising under insurance contracts located in the UK is 1,443 million 2007: 4,279 million, and the total of these non-current assets located in other countries is 1 million 2007: 1 million.
Revenues of approximately 382 million 2007: 382 million, 236 million 2007: 250 million and 222 million 2007: 258 million are derived from three external customers.
The Groups major customers are all media buying agencies.
These revenues are attributable to the Broadcasting, Online and Other segments and are from the only customers which individually represent over 10% of the Groups revenues.
3 Staff costs 2008 2007 m m Wages and salaries 287 260 Social security and other costs 36 31 Share-based compensation see note 7 10 15 Pension costs 14 18 Total 347 324 Staff costs in the current year have increased by 23 million, including 8 million due to the year on year effect of acquisitions and business expansion and 6 million due to certain staff costs no longer charged directly to programmes.
In addition, staff costs within exceptional items were 26 million 2007: 4 million principally relating to redundancy payments and reorganisation costs.
Total staff costs including exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2008 are 373 million 2007: 328 million.
In addition to the pension operating cost shown above is a net credit to net financing costs of 16 million 2007: credit of 18 million and a net debit to retained earnings in respect of actuarial losses of 124 million 2007: gains of 111 million.
The weighted average number of employees employed by the Group during the year was: 2008 2007 Broadcasting 2,747 2,785 Global Content 2,338 2,444 Online 373 286 Other 139 185 Total 5,597 5,700 Details of the directors emoluments, share options, pension entitlements and long-term incentive scheme interests are set out in the Remuneration report.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 59 4 Total operating costs 2008 2007 m m Staff costs Before exceptional items 347 324 Exceptional items 26 4 373 328 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment Amortisation and impairment 2,761 84 Depreciation 36 35 Impairment of assets held for sale 5 2,797 124 Other operating costs Broadcasting schedule costs 1,125 1,087 Broadcasting transmission costs 94 85 Broadcasting industry costs 44 37 Licence fees 30 44 CSA direct costs 33 63 Global Content non-staff costs 217 159 Online non-staff costs 42 35 Operating lease costs 19 19 Other operating exceptional items 71 31 Audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc see below 2 2 Other 55 106 1,732 1,668 Less: Staff costs and other costs charged to broadcasting schedule costs 226 230 Total operating costs 4,676 1,890 Global Content non-staff costs are net of the recharge for programmes supplied to ITV Broadcasting channels which is eliminated on consolidation as internal turnover.
The Group engages KPMG Audit Plc KPMG on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise and experience with the Group are important.
The Groups policy on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee report.
Fees paid to KPMG during the year are set out below: 2008 2007 m m Fees payable to KPMG for the audit of the Groups annual accounts 0.9 0.8 Fees payable to KPMG and its associates for other services: The audit of the Groups subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 Other services supplied pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 Other services relating to taxation 0.5 0.4 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Group or any of its associates 0.6 0.3 All other services 0.1 Total 2.3 1.9 Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 60 5 Exceptional items 2008 2007 m m Operating exceptional items: Reorganisation and restructuring costs 40 8 PRS reimbursements and fines 6 18 Onerous contract provisions 50 9 Kangaroo 1 97 35 Non-operating exceptional items: Gain on sale, net of impairment, of properties 17 9 Gain on sale, net of impairment, of subsidiaries and investments 17 43 Impairment of available for sale financial assets 7 26 Kangaroo 4 11 26 Total exceptional items before tax 108 9 2008 In 2008 a charge of 40 million was incurred in respect of reorganisation and restructuring costs.
This includes 18 million related to Regional News and 22 million as a result of other efficiency programmes.
On 8 May 2008, Ofcom announced a fine to ITV of 6 million in respect of breaches of the programme code relating to premium rate services on ITV1 and ITV2.
At the date of approval of the 2007 accounts, the regulator had not yet confirmed the level of any fine that might have been imposed in this context.
Therefore no provision for a fine was able to be included in the 2007 accounts.
Provisions in respect of onerous contracts for sports rights of 50 million were put in place in 2008 as a consequence of the forecast significant decline in the advertising market over the life of those contracts.
An impairment of 14 million was charged on the Manchester properties prior to their reclassification from assets held for sale to fixed assets and an impairment of 3 million has been charged on the remaining property classified in assets held for sale.
During the year, as part of the ongoing process to dispose of non-core businesses and investments, the Group sold its 50% interests in Arsenal Broadband Limited and Liverpool FC.
tv Limited, resulting in gains of 12 million and 13 million respectively.
These and other smaller gains were partially offset by 9 million of closure costs relating to CSA and a 3 million impairment in the Groups investment in Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited both of which are disclosed in the other reporting segment.
An impairment of the holding in stv group plc, which is held in the Broadcasting segment, of 7 million 2007: 26 million was made following a significant and sustained decline in its share price.
A summary of the 2008 Kangaroo operating and exceptional costs is included in the table below: 2008 Kangaroo costs Accounting treatment m Impairment of intangible fixed assets Operating exceptional costs 1 Impairment of investment in joint venture Non-operating exceptional costs 4 Exceptional Kangaroo costs 5 Kangaroo losses included in Online Segment Operating costs 3 Total Kangaroo costs in 2008 8 In 2009 ITV expects to incur 1 million of operating costs and 3 million of closure costs, which will be shown as operating exceptional costs, in respect of Kangaroo.
2007 In 2007 a charge of 8 million was incurred in respect of reorganisation and restructuring costs including 4 million in respect of costs associated with the operating review savings which formed part of a larger project.
Provisions in respect of onerous contracts associated with CSA 9 million were put in place in 2007.
A net gain of 9 million was recognised from the sale of properties.
A gain of 17 million was recognised from the sale of subsidiaries and investments net of impairment of investments.
This included the profits on disposal of the stakes in Arsenal Holdings plc and the option over the investment in Arsenal Broadband Limited 28 million, the investment in Liverpool Football Club and Athletic Grounds plc 7 million, the stake in Independent Television Facilities Centre Limited 5 million and the stake in MUTV Limited 3 million and an impairment of the holding in stv group plc, which is held in the Broadcasting segment, 26 million following a significant and sustained decline in its share price.
Operating exceptional items included 18 million in respect of reimbursements, fines and other costs associated with issues arising on the use of premium rate interactive services in programming on ITV 10 million and GMTV 8 million.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 61 6 Pension schemes The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The pension scheme assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The trustees of the fund are required to act in the best interest of the funds beneficiaries.
The appointment of trustees to the fund is determined by the schemes trust documentation.
Defined contribution schemes Total contributions recognised as an expense in relation to defined contribution schemes during 2008 were 4 million 2007: 3 million.
Defined benefit schemes The Group provides retirement benefits to some of its former and approximately 25% of its current monthly paid employees through defined benefit schemes.
The Groups main scheme was formed from a merger of a number of schemes on 31 January 2006.
The level of retirement benefit is principally based on basic salary at retirement.
The liabilities of the defined benefit scheme are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method.
This amount is reflected in the deficit in the balance sheet.
The projected unit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the scheme liabilities make allowance for projected earnings.
The accumulated benefit obligation is an actuarial measure of the present value of benefits for service already rendered but differs from the projected unit method in that it includes an allowance for early leaver statutory revaluation rather than projected earning increases.
At the balance sheet date the accumulated benefit obligation was 2,310 million 2007: 2,550 million.
The assets and liabilities of all the Groups defined benefit pension schemes recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2008 under IAS 19 as explained in detail in this note were 2,161 million 2007: 2,491 million and 2,339 million 2007: 2,603 million respectively, resulting in a net deficit in the defined benefit schemes of 178 million 2007: 112 million.
An alternative method of valuation to the projected unit method is a solvency basis, often estimated using the cost of buying out benefits at the balance sheet date with a suitable insurer.
This amount represents the amount that would be required to settle the scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date rather than the Group continuing to fund the ongoing liabilities of the scheme.
The Group estimates the shortfall in the amount required to settle the schemes liabilities at the balance sheet date is 1,800 million 2007: 1,100 million.
The statutory funding objective is that the scheme has sufficient and appropriate assets to pay its benefits as they fall due.
Future contributions will always be set at least at the level required to satisfy the statutory funding objective.
The general principles adopted by the trustees are that the assumptions used, taken as a whole, will be sufficiently prudent for pensions and benefits already in payment to continue to be paid, and to reflect the commitments which will arise from members accrued pension rights.
The Groups main scheme, formed by merger on 31 January 2006, consists of three sections, A, B and C. The first triennial valuation of section A was completed at 1 January 2008 by an independent actuary for the Trustees of the ITV Pension Scheme.
The first triennial valuations of sections B and C were completed as at 1 January 2007.
The Group will monitor funding levels annually.
The levels of ongoing contributions are based on the current service costs and the expected future cash flows of the defined benefit scheme.
Normal employer contributions into the schemes in 2009 for current service are expected to be in the region of 11 million 2007: 11 million assuming current contribution rates continue as agreed with the scheme trustees.
In addition, deficit funding payments of 30 million per annum are expected for the next five years.
The Group estimates that the present value of the duration of UK scheme liabilities, on average, fall due over 14 years 2007: 16 years.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 62 6 Pension schemes continued The movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for these schemes is analysed below: 2008 2007 m m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 2,603 2,657 Current service cost 12 15 Curtailment gain 2 Interest cost 146 134 Net actuarial gain 314 96 Contributions by scheme participants 6 5 Benefits paid 112 112 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 2,339 2,603 The present value of the defined benefit obligation is analysed between wholly unfunded and funded defined benefit schemes in the table below: 2008 2007 m m Defined benefit obligation in respect of funded schemes 2,309 2,567 Defined benefit obligation in respect of wholly unfunded schemes 30 36 Total defined benefit obligation 2,339 2,603 The movement in the fair value of the defined benefit scheme assets is analysed below: 2008 2007 m m Fair value of assets at 1 January 2,491 2,372 Expected return on assets 162 152 Net actuarial loss gain 438 15 Employer contributions 52 59 Contributions by scheme participants 6 5 Benefits paid 112 112 Fair value of assets at 31 December 2,161 2,491 The assets and liabilities of the scheme are recognised in the balance sheet and shown within non-current liabilities.
The total recognised is: 2005 2004 2008 2007 2006 m m m m m Total defined benefit scheme assets 2,161 2,491 2,372 2,072 1,685 Total defined benefit scheme obligations 2,339 2,603 2,657 2,604 2,357 Net amount recognised within the balance sheet 178 112 285 532 672 Amounts recognised through the income statement are as follows: 2008 2007 m m Amount charged to operating costs: Current service cost 12 15 Curtailment gain 2 10 15 Amount credited charged to net financing costs: Expected return on pension scheme assets 162 152 Interest cost 146 134 16 18 Total credited in the income statement 6 3 Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 63 6 Pension schemes continued The amounts recognised through the statement of recognised income and expense are: 2008 2007 m m Actuarial gains and losses : Arising on scheme assets 438 15 Arising on scheme liabilities 314 96 124 111 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised through the statement of recognised income and expense since 1 January 2004 is an actuarial loss of 72 million 2007: 52 million gain.
Included within actuarial gains and losses are experience adjustments as follows: 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Experience adjustments on scheme assets 438 15 32 219 56 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 18 12 9 70 At 31 December 2008 the scheme assets were invested in a diversified portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and debt securities.
The fair value of the scheme assets are shown below by major category: Market Market value value 2008 2007 m m Market value of assets equities and property 704 1,284 Market value of assets bonds 1,330 1,087 Market value of assets other 127 120 Total scheme assets 2,161 2,491 Exposure through the different asset classes is obtained through a combination of executing swaps and investing in physical assets.
Some of these bond investments are issued by the UK Government.
The risk of default on these is very small compared to the risk of default on corporate bond investments, although some risk may remain.
The trustees also hold corporate bonds and other fixed interest securities.
There is a more significant risk of default on these which is assessed by various rating agencies.
Over 2008, yields have increased significantly relative to gilts and this is partly attributed to an increase in default risk in respect of these bonds.
The trustees also have a substantial holding of equity investments.
The investment return related to these is variable and they are generally considered much riskier investments.
It is generally accepted that the yield on equity investments will contain a premium the equity risk premium to compensate investors for the additional risk of holding this type of investment.
There is significant uncertainty about the likely size of the risk premium.
In respect of overseas equity investments there is an additional risk associated with the exposure to unfavourable currency movements.
To reduce this risk, the Scheme aims to hedge broadly 60% of the overseas equity investment against currency movements.
The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target asset allocation for 2009 to develop the expected long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
The benchmark for 2009 is to hold broadly 47% equities and 53% bonds.
The majority of the equities held by the scheme are in international blue chip entities.
The aim is to hold a globally diversified portfolio of equities, with a target of broadly 22% of equities being held in the UK and 78% of equities held overseas.
Within the bond portfolio the aim is to hold 58% of the portfolio in government bonds gilts and 42% of the portfolio in corporate bonds and other fixed interest securities.
The expected rates of return on plan assets by major category and target allocations for 2009 are set out below: Expected longExpected longterm rate Planned asset term rate Planned asset of return allocation of return allocation 2009 2009 2008 2008 % p. a.
% of assets Equities and property 7.5 47 7.7 55 Bonds 3.6 6.3 53 4.4 5.9 45 Other n a n a The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the financial period for returns over the life of the related obligation.
The expected yield on bond investments with fixed interest rates can be derived exactly from their market value.
The actual return on plan assets in the year ended 31 December 2008 was a decrease of 276 million 2007: increase of 167 million.
The principal assumptions used in the scheme valuations at the balance sheet date were: 2008 2007 Rate of general increase in salaries 3.80% 4.65% Rate of increase in pension payment LPI 5% pension increases 2.70% 3.30% Rate of increase to deferred pensions 2.80% 3.40% Discount rate for scheme liabilities 6.30% 5.70% Inflation assumption 2.80% 3.40% ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 64 6 Pension schemes continued IAS 19 requires that the discount rate used be determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality fixed income investments.
The currency and term of these should be consistent with the currency and estimated term of the post-employment obligations.
The discount rate has been based on the yield available on AA rated corporate bonds of a term similar to the liabilities.
The expected rate of inflation is an important building block for salary growth and pension increase assumptions.
A rate of inflation is implied by the difference between the yields on fixed and index-linked Government bonds.
However, differences in demand for these can distort this implied figure.
The Bank of England target inflation rate has also been considered in setting this assumption.
The Group has used PA92 year of birth tables with medium cohort improvements, with a 1% per annum underpin and a one year age rating i. e. tables are adjusted so that a member is assumed to be one year older than actual age.
Using these tables the assumed life expectations on retirement are: 2008 2008 2007 2007 Retiring today at age 60 65 60 65 Males 26.5 21.6 24.4 19.8 Females 29.8 24.8 27.4 22.8 Retiring in 20 years at age 60 65 60 65 Males 28.5 23.4 25.5 20.8 Females 31.9 26.7 28.4 23.7 The tables above reflect published mortality investigation data in conjunction with the results of investigations into the mortality experience of scheme members.
These tables differ from those used as at 31 December 2007 which were the PA92 tables with mortality projected to 2020 for pensioners and 2035 for non-pensioners using the standard non-cohort improvements.
This change resulted in an increase in the assumed life expectations.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the schemes liabilities are set out below.
The illustrations consider the single change shown with the other assumptions assumed to be unchanged.
In practice, changes in one assumption may be accompanied by offsetting changes in another assumption although this is not always the case.
The Company liability is the difference between the scheme liabilities and the scheme assets.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time as changes in the market value of scheme assets.
These may or may not offset the change in assumptions.
For example, a fall in interest rates will increase the scheme liability, but may also trigger an offsetting increase in the market value so there is no net effect on the Company liability.
Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.5% Decrease increase by 7% Rate of inflation Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 7% Rate of salary growth Increase decrease by 0.5% Increase decrease by 1% Rate of mortality Increase by 1 year Increase by 2% Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 65 7 Share-based compensation 2008 2007 Weighted Weighted Number of average exercise Number of average exercise options price options price 000 pence 000 pence Outstanding at 1 January 131,803 79.46 165,185 86.67 Granted during the year nil priced 20,929 34,758 Granted during the year other 15,132 52.00 3,479 86.72 Forfeited during the year 15,295 52.99 8,087 67.13 Exercised during the year 11,351 6.63 28,469 34.50 Expired during the year 24,764 80.94 35,063 74.73 Outstanding at 31 December 116,454 71.88 131,803 79.46 Exercisable at 31 December 42,057 151.48 51,818 147.88 The average share price during 2008 was 52.34 pence 2007: 105.73 pence.
Awards made under the Granada Media and Granada Commitment schemes, the Granada Media, Granada and Carlton Executive Share Option schemes, the Carlton Equity Participation Plan, and the Carlton Deferred Annual Bonus Plan have all reached the end of their various performance periods, and have vested or lapsed accordingly.
Details of the performance criteria that applied to these awards have been detailed in the notes to previous accounts, and in previous Remuneration reports.
The Granada, Carlton and ITV Sharesave schemes are Inland Revenue Approved SAYE schemes.
Although some awards remain vested but unexercised under these Plans, they are not considered material for the purposes of disclosure again in this note.
Exercises can be satisfied by market purchase or by new issue shares.
No new shares may be issued to satisfy exercises under the terms of the Deferred Share Award Plan.
During the year all exercises were satisfied by using shares purchased in the market and held in the ITV Employees Benefit Trust rather than by issuing new shares.
The awards made under the Commitment Scheme, Performance Share Plan and Turnaround Plan all have market based performance conditions which are taken into account in the fair value calculation using a Monte Carlo pricing model.
The Black-Scholes model is used to value the Sharesave Schemes as these do not have any market performance conditions.
Share-based compensation charges totalled 10 million in 2008 2007: 15 million.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 67 8 Net financing costs 2008 2007 m m Financing income: Interest income on bank deposits 23 30 Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 162 152 Change in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 123 14 Other interest receivable 8 4 316 200 Financing costs: Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 110 54 Foreign exchange loss 116 42 Interest on defined benefit pension plan obligations 146 134 Other interest expense 4 3 376 233 Net financing costs 60 33 The foreign exchange loss is economically hedged by cross currency interest rate swaps.
The gain on these swaps is included in the change in fair value of financial liabilities within financing income.
See note 25 for further details.
As a result of ITV's credit rating with Standard & Poor's being lowered to BB in August 2008 the 2011 500 million bond and the 2017 250 million bond were subject to coupon step ups.
This has resulted in the recalculation of the amortised cost carrying value of the bonds as required by IAS 39.
The carrying value of the 2011 500 million bond has increased by 12 million, and the 2017 250 million bond by 18 million.
This has resulted in an increase in the amortised cost of the bonds and interest expense of 30 million 2007: nil during the current year.
The increase in the amortised cost of the bonds will unwind in future years resulting in a credit to interest expense.
9 Taxation Recognised in the income statement: 2008 2007 m m Current tax expense: Current tax charge before exceptional items 28 58 Current tax credit on exceptional items 23 3 5 55 Adjustment for prior periods 198 25 193 30 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 3 9 Deferred tax credit on exceptional items 3 Adjustment for prior periods 12 14 15 20 Total taxation credit expense in the income statement 178 50 Reconciliation of taxation credit expense : 2008 2007 m m Loss profit before tax 2,732 188 Taxation credit expense at UK corporation tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30% 779 56 Non-taxable non-deductible exceptional items 8 3 Non-taxable income non-deductible expenses 6 7 Effect of tax losses utilised 4 Over provision in prior periods 186 11 Impact of tax rate change 1 4 Impact of goodwill impairment 768 6 Other 6 3 178 50 In the year ended 31 December 2008 the effective tax rate is lower 2007: lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax primarily as a result of adjustments in respect of prior periods due to progress in the agreement with revenue authorities of prior periods tax liabilities including 57 million which has resulted in an adjustment through goodwill related to the ITV merger in February 2004 as required by IAS 12 2007: adjustments in respect of prior periods due to progress in the agreement with revenue authorities of prior periods tax liabilities.
The underlying tax rate on profits, after adjusting for the irregular tax effects caused by issues such as exceptional items, impairments, joint ventures and associates and adjustments in respect of prior periods, is 32% 2007: 31%.
A tax credit totalling 35 million 2007: expense of 47 million has been recognised directly in equity representing current tax of nil 2007: credit of nil and a deferred tax credit of 35 million 2007: expense of 47 million.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 68 9 Taxation continued Deferred tax assets liabilities recognised and their movements are: At Recognised At 1 January Business in the income Recognised 31 December 2008 combinations statement in equity 2008 m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 13 2 15 Intangible assets 113 18 95 Programme rights 3 1 4 Pension scheme deficits 31 17 35 49 Pensions funding payments 11 11 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and derivatives 2 1 1 Share-based compensation 4 4 Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 2 1 3 Other 6 4 2 75 15 35 55 At Recognised At 1 January Business in the income Recognised 31 December 2007 combinations statement in equity 2007 m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 4 9 13 Intangible assets 139 1 24 3 113 Programme rights 7 4 3 Pension scheme deficits 86 21 34 31 Pensions funding payments 21 10 11 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and derivatives 4 2 2 Share-based compensation 26 6 16 4 Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 3 1 2 Other 3 3 6 7 1 20 47 75 The amount of the deferred tax liability at 31 December 2008 was reduced by 1 million 2007: 6 million as a consequence of the re-statement of the liability to the reduced 28% rate at which the liability is expected to reverse.
Of this benefit 1 million 2007: 4 million has been taken through the income statement and nil 2007: 2 million through equity in accordance with IAS 12.
At 31 December 2008 total deferred tax assets are 59 million 2007: 55 million and total deferred tax liabilities are 114 million 2007: 130 million.
Deferred tax assets estimated at 0.6 billion and 0.1 billion 2007: 0.6 billion and 0.1 billion in respect of capital losses and loan relationship deficits respectively, have not been recognised due to uncertainties as to their amount and whether gain or income will arise in the appropriate form and relevant territory against which such losses could be utilised.
For the same reasons, deferred tax assets in respect of overseas losses of 10 million 2007: 10 million which time expire between 2017 and 2026 have not been recognised.
10 Dividends Dividends declared and recognised through equity in the year were: 2008 2007 m m Equity shares: Final 2006 dividend of 1.8 pence per share 70 Interim 2007 dividend of 1.35 pence per share 52 Final 2007 dividend of 1.8 pence per share 70 Interim 2008 dividend of 0.675 pence per share 26 96 122 1 million relating to the DRIP element of the 2008 interim dividend was paid before the balance sheet date.
No final dividend will be declared for 2008. Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 69 11 Earnings per share 2008 2007 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted m m m m Loss profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company 2,556 2,556 137 137 Exceptional items including related tax effect of a credit of 23 million, 2007: credit of 6 million 85 85 3 3 Loss profit for the year before exceptional items 2,471 2,471 140 140 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets including related tax credit of 19 million, 2007: 19 million 2,742 2,742 65 65 IAS 39 charge in respect of amortised cost adjustment including related tax credit of 9 million, 2007: nil 21 21 Prior period tax adjustments 186 186 11 11 Profit for the year before exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, amortised cost adjustment and prior period tax adjustments 106 106 194 194 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 3,877 3,877 3,874 3,874 Dilution impact of share options million 9 23 3,877 3,886 3,874 3,897 Loss earnings per ordinary share 65.9 p 65.8 p 3.5p 3.5p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share Basic loss earnings per ordinary share 65.9 p 65.8 p 3.5p 3.5p Add: Loss per ordinary share on exceptional items 2.2p 2.2p 0.1p 0.1p Loss earnings per ordinary share before exceptional items 63.7 p 63.6 p 3.6p 3.6p Add: Loss per ordinary share on amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 70.7p 70.6p 1.7p 1.7p Add: IAS 39 charge in respect of amortised cost adjustment 0.5p 0.5p Subtract: Profit per ordinary share on prior period tax adjustments 4.8 p 4.8 p 0.3 p 0.3 p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share for the year before exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, amortised cost adjustment and prior period tax adjustments 2.7p 2.7p 5.0p 5.0p An adjusted earnings per share figure has been disclosed because in the view of the directors this gives a fairer reflection of the results of the underlying business.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 70 12 Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Improvements to leasehold and buildings land and buildings Vehicles, equipment and fittings Total Long Short Owned Leased m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 23 58 15 250 4 350 Additions 6 31 12 49 Reclassification from assets held for sale 8 8 Disposals and retirements 30 30 At 31 December 2007 23 66 21 251 16 377 Additions 21 21 Reclassification from assets held for sale 27 3 30 Disposals and retirements 1 1 31 1 34 At 31 December 2008 49 69 20 241 15 394 Depreciation At 1 January 2007 7 6 142 2 157 Charge for the year 2 2 31 35 Reclassification from assets held for sale 3 3 Disposals and retirements 29 29 At 31 December 2007 12 8 144 2 166 Charge for the year 1 1 1 30 3 36 Disposals and retirements 1 1 25 1 28 At 31 December 2008 13 8 149 4 174 Net book value At 31 December 2008 49 56 12 92 11 220 At 31 December 2007 23 54 13 107 14 211 Included within the book values above is expenditure of 10 million 2007: 11 million on property, plant and equipment which are in the course of construction.
Also included within the book values above is 11 million relating to assets held under finance leases 2007: 14 million.
The amount of contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is disclosed in note 33.
13 Intangible assets Customer Film contracts and Software libraries and Goodwill Brands relationships Licences development other Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2007 3,443 199 338 121 4 78 4,183 Acquisition of subsidiaries 35 5 40 Internal development 22 22 At 31 December 2007 3,478 199 338 121 26 83 4,245 Acquisition of subsidiaries 6 1 7 Purchase of brands and internal development 1 20 21 At 31 December 2008 3,484 200 338 121 46 84 4,273 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2007 20 50 182 20 16 288 Charge for the year 18 22 9 1 6 56 Impairment charge 20 8 28 At 31 December 2007 40 68 212 29 1 22 372 Charge for the year 18 22 9 8 9 66 Impairment charge and goodwill reduction 2,695 2,695 At 31 December 2008 2,735 86 234 38 9 31 3,133 Net book value At 31 December 2008 749 114 104 83 37 53 1,140 At 31 December 2007 3,438 131 126 92 25 61 3,873 Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 71 13 Intangible assets continued Amortisation of intangible assets is shown within operating costs in the income statement.
The components of the 2,695 million impairment charge and goodwill reduction in 2008 are explained below Impairment tests for cash-generating units containing goodwill The following units have significant carrying amounts of goodwill: 2008 2007 m m Broadcasting 265 2,631 GMTV 33 54 SDN 76 76 Global Content 307 301 Online 68 376 749 3,438 The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates and use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups current five-year plan.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 2%2.5% depending on the CGU and are appropriate because these are long-term businesses.
The growth rates used are consistent with the long-term average growth rates for the industry.
Impairment tests are carried out annually, or when indicators show that assets may be impaired.
Current market estimates imply a downturn in the advertising market in 2009 and 2010 which constitutes an impairment indicator for the Broadcasting, GMTV and Online CGUs which are reliant on advertising revenue.
The impairment tests carried out as a consequence have resulted in a total impairment charge of 2,695 million for the year 2007: 28 million being applied against the goodwill in these CGUs.
A pre-tax market discount rate of 11.9% has been used in discounting the projected cash flows for each CGU.
The pre-tax market discount rate used in the previous year on the same basis was 10.9%.
The discount rate has been revised to reflect the latest market assumptions for the Risk Free-rate and Equity Risk Premium and also to take into account the net cost of debt.
Management believe that there is currently no reasonably possible change in discount rate which would reduce the headroom in the SDN or Global Content CGUs to zero.
Broadcasting The goodwill in this CGU arose as a result of the acquisition of broadcasting businesses since 1999, the largest of which were the acquisition by Granada of United News and Medias broadcast businesses in 2000 and the merger of Carlton and Granada in 2004 to form ITV plc.
In 2007, as a result of the early adoption of IFRS 8 Operating Segments, this goodwill was apportioned between the Broadcasting and Online CGUs based on the relative Net Present Value of the cash flows of the two segments.
Broadcasting goodwill was reduced in the year by 57 million, as required by IAS12, following the recognition of deferred tax assets not recognised at the time of the Carlton Granada merger.
An impairment charge of 2,309 million arose in the Broadcasting CGU during the course of 2008, resulting in the carrying value of the goodwill in this CGU being written down to its recoverable amount.
The impairment charge arose as a result of the downturn in the short-term outlook for the advertising market, which is an area highly exposed to the general downturn in the economy, the use of cautious medium-term assumptions as a consequence and long-term growth rates in line with the industry average.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include the television share of advertising market, share of commercial impacts, programme and other costs.
The key assumption in assessing the recoverable amount of Broadcasting goodwill is the size of the TV advertising market.
The TV advertising market has been very volatile in recent months and the expectations in the short term have deteriorated.
In forming its assumptions about the TV advertising market, the Group has used a combination of long term trends, industry forecasts and in-house estimates which place greater emphasis on recent experience.
These are broadly in the range of -10% to -16% for 2009 and 2% to -4% for 2010, with the most recent to the bottom end of these ranges.
It is also assumed that ITV elects to renew its broadcasting licences in 2014.
If the estimated TV advertising market growth for 2009 used in the value in use calculation for the Broadcasting CGU included in the Broadcasting segment had been 1% lower than the estimate used at 31 December 2008 the Group would have recognised a further impairment against goodwill of 132 million.
GMTV The goodwill in this CGU arose on the acquisition of a 75% shareholding in GMTV Limited in 2004.
An impairment charge of 21 million arose in the GMTV CGU during the course of 2008, resulting in the carrying value of the goodwill in this CGU being written down to its recoverable amount.
The impairment charge arose as a result of the downturn in the short-term outlook for the advertising market which is an area highly exposed to the general downturn in the economy.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows are based are as described under the Broadcasting CGU above.
If the estimated TV advertising market growth for 2009 used in the value in use calculation for the GMTV CGU included in the Broadcasting segment had been 1% lower than the industry estimate used at 31 December 2008 the Group would have recognised a further impairment against goodwill of 5 million.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 72 13 Intangible assets continued SDN The goodwill in this CGU arose on the acquisition of SDN the licence operator for DTT Mutliplex A in 2005 and represented the wider strategic benefits of the acquisition to ITV plc.
The strategic benefits were principally the enhanced ability to promote Freeview as a platform, business relationships with the channels which are on Multiplex A and additional capacity available from 2010.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based are income to be earned from medium-term contracts and the market price of available multiplex video streams in the period up to and beyond digital switch over.
These assumptions have been determined by using a combination of current contract terms, recent market transactions and in-house estimates of video stream availability and pricing.
It is also assumed that the Multiplex A licence is renewed to 2022.
Management believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the income and availability assumptions would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
Global Content The goodwill in this CGU arose as a result of the acquisition of production businesses since 1999, the largest of which were the acquisition by Granada of United News and Medias production businesses in 2000 and the merger of Carlton and Granada in 2004 to form ITV plc.
The key assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were based include revenue including the share of total network programme budget obtained and margin growth.
These assumptions have been determined by using a combination of extrapolation of historical trends within the business, industry estimates and in-house estimates of growth rates in all markets.
Management believe that currently no reasonably possible change in the revenue and margin assumptions would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
Online As noted above, in 2007 as a result of the adoption of IFRS 8, broadcasting goodwill was apportioned between the Broadcasting and Online CGUs based on the relative Net Present Value of the cash flows of the two segments.
This resulted in 257 million of Online goodwill.
The remainder of the Online goodwill arose on the acquisition of Friends Reunited in 2005.
An impairment charge of 308 million arose in the Online CGU during the course of 2008, resulting in the carrying value of the goodwill in this CGU being written down to its recoverable amount.
The impairment charge arose as a result of the downturn in the short-term outlook for the advertising market which is an area highly exposed to the general downturn in the economy and the over-supply of white-space advertising on online sites, leading to a significant fall in its value.
The key assumption on which the cash flows were based is the Groups online advertising revenue growth.
Online advertising is dependent on a number of factors including Onlines share of the total advertising market, as well as page impressions, unique users, average dwell times, video views and advertising rates CPT generated by the Groups online sites.
However no one factor is key in determining the Groups online advertising revenue.
The Groups online revenue growth assumptions have been determined by using a combination of industry forecasts and in-house estimates of growth rates which are based on recent experience.
Industry estimates of growth in the online advertising market range from 4% to 17% in 2009 and 9% to 20% in 2010.
If the estimated online revenue growth for 2009 used in the value in use calculation for the Online CGU included in the Online segment had been 1% lower than the estimate used at 31 December 2008, the Group would have recognised a further impairment against goodwill of 6 million.
2007 The 28 million impairment charge in 2007 related to the CSA CGU and was a result of structural changes in the cinema advertising market.
Of the 28 million, 20 million of the impairment related to goodwill and 8 million to other intangible assets.
The majority of the business and assets were sold in 2008. Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 73 14 Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings Joint Associated ventures undertakings Total m m m At 1 January 2007 59 7 66 Additions 4 9 13 Repayment of loans 1 1 Exchange movement and other 1 1 At 31 December 2007 63 16 79 Additions 17 10 27 Share of attributable losses 18 18 Repayment of loans 7 10 17 Impairment 7 7 Exchange movement and other 2 2 At 31 December 2008 50 16 66 The 17 million of additions to joint ventures during the year includes further loans and investments of 8 million in Screenvision Holdings Europe, which subsequently repaid loans and interest of the equivalent amount.
Further additions consist of investments of 4 million in Freesat and 5 million in Kangaroo.
The 18 million of losses of joint ventures and 7 million loan repayment above exclude the 3 million in respect of a loan previously written off which has now been repaid.
This amount is included as a credit in the share of loss of associates and joint ventures in the income statement.
Of the share of attributable losses of joint ventures, nil 2007: 2 million was allocated to assets held for sale see note 27 in line with their balance sheet classification.
Impairments of the Groups investments in joint ventures of 7 million consist of the impairment down to nil of the Groups investments in Screenvision Holdings Europe 3 million prior to its reclassification to assets held for sale and Kangaroo 4 million following the Competition Commissions decision to block this joint venture.
Additions in associated undertakings of 10 million include loans of 6 million to ITN, 3 million to Mammoth Screen and an investment of 1 million in Crackit Productions.
Loan repayments of 10 million have been received in the year and consist of 4 million from ITN and 6 million from Mammoth Screen.
The aggregated summary financial information in respect of associates in which the Group has an interest is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Assets 66 69 Liabilities 63 68 Revenue 122 117 Profit 2 The aggregated summary financial information in respect of the Groups share of interests in joint ventures is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Non-current assets 37 54 Current assets 75 45 Current liabilities 37 24 Non-current liabilities 33 28 Revenue 84 68 Expense 102 68 The Groups interests in significant joint ventures and associated undertakings are listed in note ix in the ITV plc company financial statements section of this report.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 74 15 Available for sale financial assets 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 10 37 Additions 2 Revaluation to fair value 1 Impairment see note 5 7 26 At 31 December 5 10 The Groups interests in available for sale investments are listed in note ix in the ITV plc company financial statements section of this report.
Additions of 2 million relate to a purchase of shares of Electric Farm Entertainment LLC representing a 10% stake.
The Group has an option to purchase a further 41% of the share capital.
This option has been valued and has a fair value of nil.
16 Distribution rights 2008 2007 m m Cost At 1 January 68 57 Additions 14 11 At 31 December 82 68 Charged to income statement At 1 January 61 46 Expense for the year 8 15 At 31 December 69 61 Net book value 13 7 The expense for the year is accounted for within operating costs in the income statement.
17 Programme rights and other inventory 2008 2007 m m Commissions 125 116 Sports rights 57 23 Acquired films 237 222 Production 62 55 Prepayments 29 22 Other 6 2 516 440 Net programme rights and other inventory written off in the year was 29 million 2007: 28 million, including 2 million 2007: nil for reversals relating to inventory previously written down to net realisable value.
In addition to these amounts, there are exceptional costs for onerous contract provisions in respect of onerous sports rights of 50 million 2007: nil, as disclosed in note 5, of which 5 million 2007: nil has been written off against sports rights and 1 million 2007: nil has been written off against prepayments above.
The remaining 44 million 2007: nil has been included in provisions, see note 26. Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 75 18 Trade and other receivables 2008 2007 m m Due within one year: Trade receivables 336 317 Other receivables 24 14 Prepayments and accrued income 84 68 444 399 Due after more than one year: Trade receivables 9 7 Prepayments and accrued income 1 1 10 8 Total trade and other receivables 454 407 As at 31 December 2008, trade receivables of 14 million 2007: 9 million were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables relate mainly to the Broadcasting and Global Content segments due to concerns over their recoverability.
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2008 2007 m m At 1 January 9 16 Charged during the year 9 3 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 1 3 Unused amounts reversed 3 7 At 31 December 14 9 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are not usually considered impaired.
As at 31 December 2008, trade receivables of 134 million 2007: 86 million were past due but not impaired.
Of this, 52 million 2007: 46 million relates to non-consolidated licensee customers in the Broadcasting segment where the Group has supplier and customer relationships.
Further amounts relating to these same customers of 4 million 2007: 3 million and 14 million 2007: 8 million are included in current trade receivables and other receivables respectively.
There is also a credit of 42 million 2007: credit of 40 million included in trade and other payables relating to these customers.
The net balance due from non-consolidated licensees is 28 million 2007: 17 million, 22 million of which is due from stv group plc 2007: 14 million and 6 million is due from UTV 2007: 3 million.
The remainder of trade receivables past due but not impaired relates to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Current 211 238 Up to 30 days overdue 48 32 Between 30 and 90 days overdue 21 8 Over 90 days overdue 65 46 345 324 19 Current liabilities trade and other payables due within one year 2008 2007 m m Trade payables 175 183 Social security 13 9 Other payables 201 102 Accruals and deferred income 334 331 Dividends 25 52 748 677 ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 76 20 Current liabilities trade and other payables due after more than one year 2008 2007 m m Trade payables 26 9 21 Non-current liabilities other payables 2008 2007 m m Other payables 15 65 22 Analysis of net debt Net Currency and 1 January cash flow and non-cash 31 December 2008 acquisitions movements 2008 m m m m Cash 381 122 503 Cash equivalents 117 5 1 113 Cash and cash equivalents 498 117 1 616 Held to maturity investments 100 100 Loans and loan notes due within one year 27 25 250 252 Finance leases due within one year 6 6 7 7 Loans and loan notes due after one year 1,184 110 102 1,192 Finance leases due after one year 79 7 72 1,296 79 148 1,523 Swap held against 500 million bond 30 117 147 Amortised cost adjustment see note 8 30 30 Net debt 668 62 730 Net Currency and 1 January cash flow and non-cash 31 December 2007 acquisitions movements 2007 m m m m Cash 824 444 1 381 Cash equivalents 137 20 117 Cash and cash equivalents 961 464 1 498 Held to maturity investments 100 100 Loans and loan notes due within one year 468 441 27 Finance leases due within one year 3 3 6 6 Loans and loan notes due after one year 1,152 32 1,184 Finance leases due after one year 72 7 79 1,695 444 45 1,296 Swap held against 500 million bond 30 30 Net debt 734 80 14 668 Included within cash equivalents is 67 million 2007: 71 million the use of which is restricted to meeting finance lease commitments under programme sale and leaseback commitments and gilts of 33 million 2007: 32 million over which the unfunded pension promises have a charge.
In July 2008 ITV issued a 110 million bond with a maturity of March 2013 and a coupon of 3-month sterling LIBOR plus 2.7%.
During 2008 ITV redeemed loan notes totalling 25 million.
In August 2007 ITV purchased a 100 million senior note issued by UBS AG UBS under UBSs Euro Note Programme.
This note was redeemed for cash in November 2008.
During the year the return earned was 8.2% on a per annum basis.
At the time of issue of the 2011 500 million bond the Group took out a cross-currency interest rate swap to economically hedge Euro interest rate and foreign exchange exposure.
As at 31 December 2008 the currency element of the swap is a 147 million asset 2007: 30 million asset and this offsets the exchange rate movement of the bond.
The interest element of the swap is a 5 million asset 2007: 7 million liability resulting in an overall net asset total at 31 December 2008 of 152 million 2007: 23 million net asset total.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 77 23 Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest risk, and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Treasury policies have been approved by the Board for managing each of these risks including levels of authority on the type and use of financial instruments.
Transactions are only undertaken if they relate to underlying exposures.
The treasury department reports regularly to the Audit Committee and treasury operations are subject to periodic independent reviews and internal audit.
Market risk a Currency risk The Group operates internationally and is therefore exposed to currency risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is to hedge material foreign currency denominated costs at the time of commitment and to hedge a proportion of foreign currency denominated revenues on a rolling 12-month basis.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign denominated cash balances is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address short-term imbalances.
The Euro denominated interest and principal payments under the 500 million bond have been fully hedged by a cross-currency interest rate swap.
The Groups investments in subsidiaries are not hedged as those currency positions are considered to be long term in nature.
At 31 December 2008, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2 million 2007: 2 million higher lower.
Equity would have been 9 million 2007: 7 million higher lower.
At 31 December 2008, if sterling had weakened strengthened by 10% against the Euro with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 2 million 2007: 1 million higher lower.
Equity would have been 5 million 2007: 5 million higher lower.
b Price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk due to its investment in stv group plc.
During 2008 stv group plc performed a 1 for 20 share consolidation.
The share price at 31 December 2008 was 78 pence equivalent to 3.9 pence before the share consolidation and represents a 76% fall in the year 2007: 75% versus the 31% decrease 2007: 3% increase in the FTSE 100.
The investment in stv group plc is classified as an available for sale financial asset and so any fair value movement initially goes through equity.
However, as the share price experienced a significant decline in the year an impairment charge has been recognised in the income statement.
This 7 million charge reflected the decline in the share price in the year as an impairment of 26 million was also recognised in 2007.
If the share price had increased decreased by another 10% at 31 December 2008 the impairment charge would have been 0.2 million lower higher.
c Fair value interest risk The Groups principal interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings and associated interest rate swaps.
Borrowings issued at or swapped to floating rates expose the Group to interest rate risk.
The Groups interest rate policy is to have between 50% and 70% of its total net indebtedness held at fixed rates over the medium term in order to provide a balance between certainty of cost and benefit from lower floating rates.
The Group uses interest rate swaps and options in order to achieve the desired mix between fixed and floating rates.
All of the Groups interest rate swaps are designated as fair value through profit or loss so any movement in the fair value goes through the income statement rather than equity.
At 31 December 2008, if interest rates had increased decreased by 0.1%, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1 million 2007: 1 million lower higher.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
It arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers, cash and held to maturity investments.
There is also credit risk relating to the Groups own credit rating as this impacts the availability and cost of future finance.
a Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The majority of trade receivables relate to airtime sales contracts with advertising agencies and advertisers.
Credit insurance has been taken out against these companies to minimise the impact on the Group in the event of a possible default.
b Cash and held to maturity investments The Group operates strict investment guidelines with respect to surplus cash and the emphasis is on preservation of capital.
Counterparty limits for cash deposits are largely based upon long-term ratings published by the major credit rating agencies and perceived state support.
Counterparty limits were reviewed and reduced during 2008.
Deposits longer than one month require the approval of the Management Committee.
c Borrowings In August 2008 Standard & Poors lowered ITVs credit rating to BB.
As a consequence the coupons on the 500 million 2011 and 250 million 2017 bonds issued in October 2006 increased by 1.25% with effect from October 2008 and January 2009 respectively.
In September 2008 Moodys Investor Service lowered ITVs credit rating to Ba1 and consequently ITVs credit rating is sub-investment grade with both major agencies.
The combination of ITVs lower credit rating and the deterioration in credit conditions adversely impacts the availability and costs of future finance.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups financing policy is to fund itself for the long term by using debt instruments with a range of maturities.
It is substantially funded from the UK and European capital markets and has bank facilities from the UK syndicated debt market.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve comprising undrawn bank facilities and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows.
This monitoring includes financial ratios to assess headroom under financial covenants on bank facilities and takes into account the accessibility of cash and cash equivalents.
At 31 December 2008 the Group has available 650 million 2007: 530 million of undrawn committed facilities.
Of these 450 million are bank facilities, subject to covenants, which expire in June 2011 and 200 million relates to bank facilities which mature in May 2013 and have no financial covenants.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 78 23 Financial risk factors continued The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the period remaining until the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cashflows so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Total contractual Less than Between Between Over cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2008 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 1,368 263 11 479 615 Trade and other payables 774 748 18 7 1 Other non-current payables 15 1 14 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 40 9 8 8 15 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflows 31 31 Inflows 40 40 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss Outflows 80 57 17 6 Inflows 87 60 20 7 2,101 990 19 491 601 Total contractual Less than Between Between Over cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2007 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 1,294 37 261 371 625 Trade and other payables 686 677 5 4 Other non-current payables 68 56 12 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 47 9 3 41 12 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges Outflows 63 33 30 Inflows 68 36 32 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss Outflows 54 35 12 7 Inflows 54 35 12 7 1,996 720 317 346 613 Capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes borrowings disclosed in note 24, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company equity.
Equity comprises issued capital, reserves and retained earnings disclosed in note 30.
The Groups objective when managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, increase net debt by issuing new debt or drawing down upon facilities or reduce net debt by issuing new shares or selling assets.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 79 24 Analysis of borrowings a Ageing 2008 2007 Loans and Finance Loans and Finance loan notes leases loan notes leases Total Total m m m m m m Current In one year or less, or on demand 252 7 259 27 6 33 Non-current In more than one year but not more than two years 8 8 249 8 257 In more than two years but not more than five years 603 26 629 365 26 391 In more than five years 589 38 627 570 45 615 1,192 72 1,264 1,184 79 1,263 Total 1,444 79 1,523 1,211 85 1,296 Loans repayable within one year Loans repayable within one year as at 31 December 2008 include 1 million 2007: 4 million of loan notes issued in connection with the purchase of Carlton Communications Limited Preference Shares with a coupon of sterling LIBOR minus 0.5%, and an unsecured 250 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 5.625% and matured on 2 March 2009.
This was classified as loans payable after more than one year as at 31 December 2007.
Loans repayable within one year as at 31 December 2007 included 21 million of loan notes issued in connection with the purchase of Friends Reunited with a coupon of sterling LIBOR minus 0.525%.
Loans repayable between two and five years Loans repayable between two and five years as at 31 December 2008 include an unsecured 500 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 6.0% and matures in October 2011.
The coupon on this bond stepped up from 4.75% to 6.0% with effect from October 2008 as a result of ITVs credit rating with Standard & Poors being lowered to BB in August 2008.
In July 2008 ITV issued an unsecured 110 million Eurobond which has a coupon of three months sterling LIBOR plus 2.7% and matures in March 2013.
Loan repayable after five years Loans repayable after five years include an unsecured 325 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 5.375% and matures in October 2015 and an unsecured 250 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 6.125% and matures in January 2017.
The coupon on this bond stepped up to 7.375% with effect from January 2009 as a result of ITVs credit rating with Standard & Poors being lowered to BB in August 2008.
Finance leases Finance lease liabilities are payable as follows: 2008 2007 Minimum lease Minimum payments Interest Principal lease payments Interest Principal m m m m m m In one year or less 11 4 7 10 4 6 In more than one year but not more than five years 45 11 34 47 13 34 In more than five years 40 2 38 50 5 45 96 17 79 107 22 85 Finance leases principally comprise the lease of programme titles under sale and leaseback arrangements and an embedded lease relating to the provision of news.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases at 31 December 2008 was 11 million 2007: 14 million.
b Fair values Available for sale investments The fair value of available for sale investments traded in active markets is based on quoted market bid prices at the balance sheet date.
Cash and cash equivalents The carrying value approximates to fair value because of the short maturity of the instruments.
Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps and options are accounted for at their fair value based upon termination prices.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for at their fair value using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Other assets and liabilities No additional disclosure of fair value has been made as the carrying value is a reasonable approximation of the fair value.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 80 24 Analysis of borrowings continued Loans and loan notes Book value Fair value 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Maturity Basis of measurement 250 million Eurobond Mar 09 Fair value 250 249 250 249 500 million Eurobond Oct 11 Amortised cost 493 365 391 358 110 million Eurobond Mar 13 Amortised cost 110 110 325 million Eurobond Oct 15 Amortised cost 323 322 211 300 250 million Eurobond Jan 17 Amortised cost 266 248 163 241 Other loans Amortised cost 2 27 2 27 1,444 1,211 1,127 1,175 Bonds accounted for on an amortised cost basis use the effective interest method.
Bonds accounted for using the fair value approach are valued at fair value based on ask price with the resultant gains or losses recorded in the income statement in accordance with the Groups accounting policy which prevents an accounting mismatch.
The book value of the 2011 500 million Eurobond has increased in the year principally as a result of currency movements of 117 million which are hedged see note 22.
The book values of the 2011 500 million Eurobond and the 2017 250 million Eurobond have increased due to revisions in amortised cost of 12 million and 18 million respectively due to the effect of coupon step ups see note 8. c Financial instruments application The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items with the carrying values below: At fair value through profit Loan and Derivatives used Available receivables or loss for hedging for sale Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m m Balance sheet assets Available for sale financial assets 5 5 Derivative financial instruments 208 10 218 Trade and other receivables 454 454 Cash and cash equivalents 583 33 616 1,037 208 10 38 1,293 At fair value Other through profit financial Derivatives used liabilities or loss for hedging Total At 31 December 2008 m m m m Balance sheet liabilities Borrowings 250 1,273 1,523 Derivative financial instruments 31 1 32 281 1 1,273 1,555 At fair value through profit Loan and Derivatives used Available receivables or loss for hedging for sale Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m m Balance sheet assets Available for sale financial assets 10 10 Held to maturity investments 100 100 Derivative financial instruments 31 5 36 Trade and other receivables 407 407 Cash and cash equivalents 466 32 498 973 31 5 42 1,051 Other At fair value through profit financial Derivatives used or loss for hedging liabilities Total At 31 December 2007 m m m m Balance sheet liabilities Borrowings 249 1,047 1,296 Derivative financial instruments 10 10 259 1,047 1,306 Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 81 25 Financial instruments The following table shows the fair value of derivative financial instruments analysed by type of contract.
2008 2007 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current portion: Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 2 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 10 1 3 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss 7 4 1 1 19 7 4 1 Non-current portion: Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 194 25 30 9 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit or loss 5 199 25 32 9 218 32 36 10 Interest rate swap asset valuations as at 31 December 2008 include 152 million in respect of cross currency interest rate swap hedges against the 2011 500 million Eurobond.
Under these swaps ITV receives cash flows in Euros which match both the original 4.75% coupon and redemption payments under the bonds and pays in sterling 6.22% semi-annually on a notional of 167.3 million and three month sterling LIBOR plus 1.14% on a notional of 167.3 million and at maturity of the bonds it pays 334.6 million.
The remaining 44 million asset valuation relates to a number of floating rate swaps including a 125 million swap matched against half of the 2017 250 million bond.
Under this swap ITV receives 6.125% to match the bond coupon and pays three month sterling LIBOR plus 0.51% with three month sterling LIBOR capped at 5.25% for rates between 5.25% and 8.0%.
ITV also has a 162.5 million swap matched against half of the 2015 325 million bond.
Under this swap ITV receives 5.375% to match the bond coupon and pays the higher of six month sterling LIBOR minus 0.2% or six month US$ LIBOR minus 1.0%, set in arrears or in advance.
In addition ITV has swaps totalling 162.5 million matched against the other half of the 2015 325 million bond.
Under these swaps ITV receives 5.375% to match the bond coupon and pays a weighted average of three month sterling LIBOR plus 1.45%.
Interest rate swap liability valuations of 27 million as at 31 December 2008 relate to various fixed rate swaps.
ITV has a 162.5 million swap with a maturity of October 2015 under which it receives three month sterling LIBOR and pays 4.35%.
The bank has the right to cancel the swap.
ITV also has a 125 million swap with a maturity of January 2017 under which it receives three month sterling LIBOR and pays 4.36%.
All forward foreign exchange contracts hedge underlying currency exposures.
The forward foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges relate to contractual payments for sport and other programme rights and transponder costs.
26 Provisions Contract Restructuring Other provisions Boxclever Property provisions provisions Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2008 15 1 11 4 31 Additions in the year 1 50 18 1 70 Utilised in the year 14 2 1 17 At 31 December 2008 15 2 47 16 4 84 Of the provisions 43 million 2007: 27 million are shown within current liabilities.
The Boxclever provision relates to potential liabilities that may arise as a result of Boxclever having been placed into administration, most of which relate to pension arrangements.
Property provisions are in place in respect of various vacant properties.
Utilisation will be over the life of these leases.
Included within Contract provisions of 47 million are 44 million for onerous sports rights commitments and 3 million for closure costs at CSA.
Restructuring provisions of 16 million are in respect of regional news.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 82 27 Assets held for sale The movements in assets held for sale are summarised in the table below: 2008 m At 1 January 2008 59 Impairment 17 Transfer to property, plant and equipment 30 Sale of property 4 Sale of joint ventures 5 At 31 December 2008 3 The Group is actively marketing its interest in Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited and as such has classified this joint venture investment as an asset held for sale carried at nil.
The investment being sold is not core to the Groups main activities and is disclosed in the Other segment.
An impairment charge of 17 million has been recognised on properties during the year including 14 million relating to the Manchester properties following consultation with an independent valuer.
These properties have been reclassified into property, plant and equipment at a net book value of 30 million reflecting managements decision to cease actively marketing these properties.
A further impairment has been recognised on a freehold property still classified as held for sale due to a fall in market rental yields.
The property remaining as held for sale is being actively marketed as it is deemed to be surplus to future operating requirements and disposal is anticipated to be completed within one year.
The Group sold its interest in certain properties and joint ventures previously held for sale with a total net book value of 4 million and 5 million respectively during the year.
28 Acquisitions and disposals of businesses Acquisitions and disposals in 2008 Silverback On 13 May 2008, the Group acquired 100% of the shares in Silverback AB, a Swedish based independent production company and programme formats business.
The fair value of the initial consideration, including costs associated with the acquisition, is 5 million with an additional 3 million being treated as compensation contingent on the retention of key employees and the future performance of the acquired business.
This represents the present value of the expected contingent consideration which may be up to 9 million dependent on the satisfaction of those conditional factors.
The intangible assets recognised at fair value of 1 million represent formats.
A deferred tax liability of less than 1 million was recognised in respect of these intangible assets.
Goodwill of 5 million was also recognised representing the benefits of this acquisition to the Global Content segment.
Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2008, the estimated revenue for the Group would have been 1 million higher at 2,030 million, the increase in operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items would have been immaterial at less than 1 million.
Imago On 29 September 2008, the Group acquired 51% of the shares in Imago TV Film und Fernsehproduktion GmbH, a Berlin-based production and original format creation business.
The fair value of the initial consideration, including costs associated with the acquisition, is 2 million with an additional 2 million being treated as compensation contingent on the retention of key employees and the future performance of the acquired business.
This represents the present value of the expected contingent consideration which may be up to 3 million dependent on the satisfaction of those conditional factors.
There were no material intangible assets recognised.
Goodwill of 1 million was also recognised representing the benefits of this acquisition to the Global Content segment.
Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2008, the estimated revenue for the Group would have been 3 million higher at 2,032 million and operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 1 million higher at 212 million for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Group also acquired a one way call option to acquire the remaining 49% of the shares in Imago.
The option payment will become exercisable following the audit of Imagos year ended 31 December 2011 financial statements.
The Group has valued the option at a fair value of nil.
The acquired net assets of Silverback and Imago are set out in the table below: Book value Fair value Fair value before acquisition adjustments to ITV plc m m m Intangible assets 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1 1 Trade and other receivables 1 1 Trade and other payables 2 2 Net assets 1 1 Net assets acquired after minority interest 1 Goodwill on acquisition 6 Fair value of consideration 7 Valuation of acquired intangible assets methodology Valuation of acquired intangible assets has been performed in accordance with industry standard practice.
Methods applied are designed to isolate the value of each intangible asset separately from the other assets of the business.
The values of brands are assessed by applying a royalty rate to the expected future revenues over the life of the brand.
Licences are valued on a start-up basis.
Customer relationships and contracts are valued based on expected future cash flows from those existing at the date of acquisition.
Contributory charges from other assets are taken as appropriate with post tax cash flows then being discounted back to their present value.
Typical discount rates applied in the valuation of intangible assets acquired in the period are 8% 15%.
Disposals During the period the Group disposed of its interests in Arsenal Broadband Limited and Liverpool FC.
The Groups 50% interest in Arsenal Broadband Limited was sold for a total cash consideration of 14 million and resulted in a gain on disposal of 12 million.
The Groups 50% interest in Liverpool FC.
tv Limited was sold for a total cash consideration of 16 million and resulted in a gain on disposal of 13 million.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 83 28 Acquisitions and disposals of businesses continued Acquisitions and disposals in 2007 12 Yard On 4 December 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the shares in David Young 12 Yard Productions Limited and Hat Trick 12 Yard Productions Limited for a total initial consideration of 27 million and deferred consideration of up to 9 million contingent on the retention of key employees and the future performance of the acquired business.
The fair value of the consideration was 35 million.
This took into account the initial consideration, the present value of the expected contingent consideration and other costs associated with the acquisition.
Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2007, the estimated revenue for the Group would have been 9 million higher at 2,091 million and operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 2 million higher at 313 million for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The intangible assets recognised at fair value included the order backlog.
A deferred tax liability of 1 million was recognised in respect of these intangible assets.
A 1 million corporation tax liability was also recognised reflecting amounts owing at the date of acquisition.
The goodwill represented the benefit of the acquisition across the Group when combined with existing Group assets and businesses.
Jaffe Braunstein Entertainment On 4 May 2007, the Group acquired 51% of the shares in Jaffe Braunstein Entertainment LLC JBE, a US company, for a total consideration of 3 million taking into account the initial consideration plus other costs associated with the acquisition.
JBE is a film production company in the scripted genre.
The intangible assets recognised at fair value of 1 million included the film library and order backlogs.
Goodwill of 3 million was also recognised representing the benefits of this acquisition to the Global Content segment.
The amounts recognised at the acquisition date for each class of JBEs assets and liabilities and the amount of profit since the acquisition date have not been separately disclosed as all figures are less than 1 million.
Enable Media Following the acquisition of Enable Media in November 2006, provisional fair values were adjusted and an additional 1 million of goodwill was recognised in 2007.
Disposals During 2007, as part of the ongoing process to dispose of non-core businesses and investments, the Group sold its 91.5% holding of Independent Television Facilities Centre Limited ITFC and disposed of its interests in Arsenal Holdings plc and Liverpool Football Club and Athletic Grounds plc.
The interest in ITFC was sold for total consideration of 7 million 5 million net of cash disposed of 2 million resulting in a gain of 5 million on disposal.
The Groups 9.99% interest in Arsenal Holdings plc, along with an option over the Groups 50% interest in Arsenal Broadband Limited, was sold for a total cash consideration of 50 million and resulted in a gain of 28 million on disposal.
The Groups 9.99% interest in Liverpool Football Club and Athletic Grounds plc was sold for a cash consideration of 17 million and resulted in a gain of 7 million on disposal.
The Groups 33% share in MUTV Limited was sold for a cash consideration of 3 million and resulted in a gain of 3 million on disposal.
29 Called up share capital The Groups share capital is the same as that of ITV plc.
Details of this are given in note v in the ITV plc company financial statements section of this annual report.
Employee benefit trust The Group has investments in its own shares as a result of shares purchased by the ITV Employee Benefit Trust.
As at 31 December 2008 the trust held the following shares: 2008 2007 Number Market value Number Market value of shares m of shares m ITV Employee Benefit Trust 4,144,550 2 15,647,090 13 The nominal value of own shares held is 0.4 million 2007: 1.6 million.
The shares will be held in trust until such time as they may be transferred to participants of the various Group share schemes.
Rights to dividends have been waived by the ITV Employees Benefit Trust in respect of shares held which do not relate to restricted shares under the Deferred Share Award Plan.
The total number of shares held by the trust at 31 December 2008 is 4,144,550 2007: 15,647,090 ordinary shares representing 0.11% 2007: 0.40% of ITVs issued share capital.
In accordance with the Trust Deed, the Trustees of the ITV Employee Benefit Trust have the power to exercise all voting rights in relation to any investment including shares held within that trust.
During the year the following ordinary shares were released from the above trust to satisfy awards vesting under the Groups share schemes as follows: Nominal value Shares released from: Number of shares released Scheme ITV Employee Benefit Trust 7,626,685 762,668 Deferred Share Award Plan 692,825 69,283 Carlton Sharesave Plan 569,788 56,979 Granada Sharesave Plan 2,461,832 246,183 Granada Commitment Plan 151,410 15,141 ITV Employee Bonus Plan 11,502,540 1,150,254 ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 84 30 Capital and reserves Attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company Share Share Merger and Translation Available for sale Retained Minority Total capital premium other reserves reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2007 401 120 2,690 3 17 69 3,156 7 3,163 Cancellation of deferred shares 12 12 Total recognised income and expense 7 13 201 195 1 196 Movements due to sharebased compensation 4 4 4 Dividends paid to minority interests 2 2 Equity dividends 122 122 122 At 31 December 2007 389 120 2,702 4 4 14 3,233 6 3,239 Total recognised income and expense 20 2 2,645 2,623 2 2,621 Movements due to sharebased compensation 12 12 12 Equity dividends 96 96 96 Transfer from merger reserve 2,429 2,429 At 31 December 2008 389 120 273 24 6 286 526 8 534 Merger and other reserves Merger and other reserves at 31 December 2008 include merger reserves arising on the Granada Carlton and previous mergers of 119 million 2007: 2,548 million, capital reserves of 112 million 2007: 112 million, capital redemption reserves of 36 million 2007: 36 million and revaluation reserves of 6 million 2007: 6 million.
A transfer of 2,429 million between retained earnings and merger reserve has been made in the year in respect of the impairment of goodwill which arose on the Granada Carlton and other mergers.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of the accounts of, and investments in, foreign operations.
Included within the movement in the year is 4 million related to cash flow hedges 2007: 5 million.
Available for sale reserve The available for sale reserve comprises all movements arising on the revaluation and disposal of assets accounted for as available for sale.
31 Contingent liabilities There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation and guarantees, and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain disposals of businesses.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts 85 32 Operating leases The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2008 2007 m m Not later than one year 16 17 Later than one year and not later than five years 45 53 Later than five years 152 153 213 223 The Group leases a number of properties principally comprising offices and studios under operating leases.
Leases typically run for a period of 15 years with an option to renew the lease after that date.
Lease payments are typically increased every five years to reflect market rentals.
None of the leases include contingent rentals.
The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date is 8 million 2007: 8 million.
The total operating lease expenditure recognised during the year was 19 million 2007: 19 million and total sublease payments received totalled 4 million 2007: 3 million.
33 Capital and other commitments There are 1 million of capital commitments at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007: 1 million.
There are also a number of operating commitments in respect of programming entered into in the ordinary course of business.
34 Post balance sheet events In January 2009 the Group paid 50 million in respect of the final payment of the earn-out relating to the Friends Reunited acquisition in 2005.
In February 2009 ITV increased its liquidity by 50 million under a new ten-year loan which is not subject to financial covenants.
The interest cost under the loan is fixed at 8.85% for the first three years and thereafter is at a variable rate, subject to a cap of 15.6%.
The lender has the right to loan ITV up to a further 150 million at any time.
On 2 March 2009 the Group repaid the 250 million Eurobond and drew down on a 125 million facility that matures in May 2013.
35 Related party transactions Transactions with associated undertakings and joint ventures: 2008 2007 m m Sales to joint ventures 2 Sales to associated undertakings 2 1 Purchases from joint ventures 1 Purchases from associated undertakings 42 40 The purchases from associated undertakings relate to purchase of news services from ITN.
2008 2007 m m Amounts owed by joint ventures 27 33 Amounts owed by associated undertakings 7 5 Amounts owed to associated undertakings 1 Amounts owed by pension scheme 1 3 Amounts owed by joint ventures relate to loan balances with Screenvision Holdings Europe which have been fully provided for at the balance sheet date.
All transactions with associated undertakings and joint ventures arise in the normal course of business on an arms-length basis.
None of the balances are secured.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management consists of ITVs senior executive team.
Key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2008 2007 m m Short-term employee benefits 6 5 Post-employment benefits 1 Termination benefits 2 2 Share-based compensation 5 6 13 14 Amounts paid to the Groups retirement benefit plans are set out in note 6.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 86 ITV plc Company Financial Statements Company balance sheet 2008 2008 2007 2007 At 31 December: Note m m m m Fixed assets: Investments in subsidiary undertakings iii 1,699 1,816 Held to maturity investments 100 Derivative financial instruments 194 30 1,893 1,946 Current assets: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 78 74 Prepayments and accrued income 1 1 Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 283 244 362 319 Creditors amounts falling due within one year: Borrowings iv 252 25 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 88 28 Accruals and deferred income 33 28 Other creditors 53 53 Dividends 25 52 451 186 Net current liabilities assets 89 133 Total assets less current liabilities 1,804 2,079 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year: Borrowings iv 1,192 1,186 Derivative financial instruments 25 2 1,217 1,188 Net assets 587 891 Capital and reserves: Called up share capital v 389 389 Share premium vi 120 120 Other reserves vi 36 36 Profit and loss account vi 42 346 Shareholders funds equity 587 891 The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2009 and were signed on its behalf by: John Cresswell Ian Griffiths Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 87 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements i Accounting policies Basis of preparation As permitted by section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account, dealing with the results of the parent company, has not been presented.
The Company is exempt from adopting FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement to provide its own financial instruments disclosures, on the grounds that it is included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS equivalent to that standard.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis notwithstanding net current liabilities of 89 million.
The directors believe this to be appropriate based on the availability of funds from other group companies.
This should enable the Company to meet its liabilities as they fall due for payment.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The investment in the Companys subsidiaries is recorded at cost, adjusted for the effect of UITF 41 and recharged share scheme costs.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, and in subsequent periods at amortised cost.
The difference between cost and redemption value is recorded in the profit and loss account over the period of the liability on an effective interest basis.
Derivatives and other financial instruments The Company uses a limited number of derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
The Company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value with movement recorded in the profit and loss account.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
Dividends Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are declared and approved by the Companys shareholders.
ii Employees Four 2007: two directors of ITV plc were the only employees of the Company during the year.
The costs relating to these directors are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
iii Investments in subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in note ix.
The movements during 2008 were as follows: m At 1 January 2008 1,816 Impairment 117 At 31 December 2008 1,699 iv Borrowings Loans repayable within one year Loans repayable within one year as at 31 December 2008 include 1 million 2007: 4 million of loan notes issued in connection with the purchase of Carlton Communications Limited Preference Shares with a coupon of sterling LIBOR minus 0.5%, and an unsecured 250 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 5.625% and matured on 2 March 2009.
Loan repayable after more than one year Loans repayable after more than one year include an unsecured 500 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 6.0% and matures in October 2011.
In July 2008 ITV issued an unsecured 110 million Eurobond which has a coupon of 3 months sterling LIBOR plus 2.7% and matures in March 2013.
An unsecured 325 million Eurobond has a coupon of 5.375% and matures in October 2015, and an unsecured 250 million Eurobond has a coupon of 6.125% and matures in January 2017.
The coupon on this bond stepped up to 7.375% with effect from January 2009 as a result of ITVs credit rating with Standard & Poors having been lowered to BB in August 2008.
Further information relating to these bonds is given in note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements 88 v Called up share capital Allotted, issued Authorised and fully paid 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Ordinary shares of 10 pence each Authorised: 5,826,377,627 2007: 5,826,377,627 583 583 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 3,889,129,751 2007: 3,889,129,751 389 389 Total 583 583 389 389 The Companys ordinary shares give the shareholder equal rights to vote, receive dividends and to the repayment of capital.
There have been no issued ordinary share capital movements during the period.
vi Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Share Share Other Profit and capital premium reserves loss account Total m m m m m At 1 January 2008 389 120 36 346 891 Retained loss for year for equity shareholders 314 314 Share-based compensation 10 10 At 31 December 2008 389 120 36 42 587 The loss after tax for the year dealt with in the accounts of ITV plc is 218 million year ended 31 December 2007: profit of 131 million before dividends declared of 96 million 2007: 122 million.
vii Contingent liabilities Under a group registration, the Company is jointly and severally liable for VAT at 31 December 2008 of 13 million 31 December 2007: 28 million.
The Company has guaranteed certain finance and operating lease obligations of subsidiary undertakings.
There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation and guarantees and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain disposals of businesses and in respect of certain trading and other obligations of certain subsidiaries.
Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
viii Capital and other commitments There are no capital commitments at 31 December 2008 31 December 2007: none.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements 89 ix Principal subsidiary undertakings and investments Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2008, all of which are wholly-owned directly or indirectly and incorporated and registered in England and Wales except where stated, are: Name Principal activity ITV Broadcasting Limited Broadcast of television programmes ITV Consumer Limited Development of platforms, broadband, transactional and mobile services ITV Studios Limited formerly ITV Productions Limited Production of television programmes 1 ITV Network Limited Scheduling and commissioning television programmes ITV Services Limited Provision of services for other companies within the Group ITV2 Limited Operation of digital TV channels ITV Digital Channels Limited Operation of digital TV channels 2 12 Yard Productions Production of television programmes 3sixtymedia Limited 80% owned Supplier of facilities for television productions Carlton Communications Limited Holding company Friends Reunited Limited Operation of community based websites GMTV Limited 75% owned Production and broadcast of breakfast time television under national Channel 3 licence Granada Limited Holding company ITV Global Entertainment Limited formerly Granada International Media Limited Rights ownership and distribution of television programmes and films 3 ITV Global Entertainment, Inc formerly Granada International Media, Inc Distribution of television programmes 4 Granada Productions Pty Limited Production of television programmes 5 Granada Entertainment USA Production of television programmes 6 Granada Produktion fr Film und Fernsehen GmbH Production of television programmes Granada Ventures Limited Production and distribution of video and DVD products Imago TV Film und Fernsehproduktion GmbH 6 51.2% owned Production of television programmes 3 Jaffe Braunstein Entertainment LLC 51% owned Production of television programmes SDN Limited Operation of Freeview Multiplex A 7 Silverback AB Production and distribution of television programmes 1 Interest in company limited by guarantee.
3 Incorporated and registered in the USA.
4 Incorporated and registered in the Australia.
6 Incorporated and registered in Germany.
7 Incorporated and registered in Sweden.
A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements 90 ix Principal subsidiary undertakings and investments continued Principal joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2008 the following holdings in significant joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments: Interest in Interest in ordinary ordinary share capital share capital 2008 2007 Name Note % % Principal activity The Ambassador Theatre Group Limited c 7.34 7.34 Operation of theatres and production of theatrical productions Freesat UK Limited b 50.00 50.00 Provision of a standard and high definition enabled digital satellite proposition Independent Television News Limited a 40.00 40.00 Supply of news services to broadcasters in the UK and elsewhere Mammoth Screen Limited a 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited b 50.00 50.00 European cinema advertising stv group plc formerly SMG plc c 7.36 5.60 Television broadcasting in central and north Scotland Technicolor Cinema Advertising LLC b 50.00 50.00 US cinema advertising Crackit Productions Limited a 25.00 Production of television programmes Electric Farm Entertainment LLC c 10.00 Digital studio company Incorporated and registered in Scotland.
Incorporated and registered in USA.
Classified as an Asset Held for Sale in 2008. c Available for sale investment.
The Company did not participate in stv group plcs tender offer during the year and as a result its percentage holding in stv group plcs issued share capital has increased.
x Post balance sheet events In January 2009 the Company paid 50 million in respect of the final payment of the earn-out relating to the Friends Reunited acquisition in 2005.
The interest cost under the loan is fixed at 8.85% for the first three years and thereafter is at a variable rate, subject to a cap of15.6%.
