To use this service shareholders to Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, should contact Capita: Huddersfield, West Yorkshire HD8 0LA.
0871 664 0454 from the UK calls cost 10 pence per minute plus 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network network charges or 1 890 946 375 from Ireland charges from the UK and 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK visit www.
com Alternatively you could email them at: shareholder.
com ShareGift ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who may Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of company mailings because wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value they have multiple accounts should write to Capita to have the accounts makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation and further By logging on to www.
com shareholders can benefit information can be obtained by contacting them: from a number of online services as follows: 020 7930 3737 Cast your proxy vote online: www.
org Elect to receive shareholder communication electronically: Share price information View your holding balance, indicative share price and valuation: The current price of ITV plc ordinary shares is available on Ceefax, View transactions on your holding and dividend payments you have Teletext and on the Company website at www.
received: Dividend Reinvestment Plan Update your address or register a bank mandate instruction to have Capita operate a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP to provide UK dividends paid directly to your bank account: shareholders with a facility to invest cash dividends by purchasing Access a wide range of shareholder information including further ITV plc shares.
Further details are available from Capita.
Individual Savings Accounts ISAs www.
com The Company has a corporate sponsored Stocks and Shares ISA.
The ISA You will need your investor code IVC which can be found on your share offers UK resident shareholders a simple low-cost and tax efficient way certificate s to register to use the Shareholder Portal.
to invest in ITV plc ordinary shares.
Full details together with a form of application are available from: Halifax Share Dealing Limited Lovell Park Road Leeds LS1 1NS 0870 600 9966 ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Shareholder information 108 The Unclaimed Assets Register Unauthorised brokers Boiler Room Scams The Company participates in The Unclaimed Assets Register, which Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, provides a search facility for financial assets, which may have been offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
lost or forgotten and which donates 10% of its public search fees to These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK a wide range of UK charities.
For further information and to obtain shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless a search request form contact: or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
The Unclaimed Assets Register PO Box 9501 If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Nottingham NG80 1WD Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
0870 241 1713 Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting search@uar.
co. uk involved by visiting: www.
uk register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or Unsolicited mail visiting: The Company is legally obliged to make its register of members available to the public.
As a consequence of this some shareholders www.
uk might receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount If the calls persist, hang up.
of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service MPS : If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive FREEPOST 29 LON20771 payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA London W1E 0ZT can be contacted by completing an online form at: Alternatively you can register online or request an application form by www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml telephone or by email.
MPS will then notify the bodies that support its service that you do not wish to receive unsolicited mail.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will only be included in company mailings.
0845 703 4599 More detailed information can be found on the FSA website: mps@dma.
uk Identity theft Registered office Tips for protecting your ITV plc shares: ITV plc 200 Grays Inn Road Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares London WC1X 8HF electronically in CREST via a nominee.
Keep all correspondence from Capita in a safe place, or destroy 020 7156 6000 correspondence by shredding.
Company registration number 4967001 If you change address inform Capita in writing or via the Shareholder Company website Portal.
If you receive a letter from Capita regarding a change of Investor and shareholder related information can be found on the address but have not recently moved please contact them Company website at: immediately.
com Consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
Financial calendar If you change your bank account, inform Capita of the details of Annual General Meeting Thursday 14 May 2009 your new account.
You can do this via post or online using the Shareholder Portal.
Respond to any letters Capita sends you about Interim Management Statement May 2009 this.
Half year results announcement August 2009 If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers registered in your country of residence or the UK.
