Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to Easter adjustment To adjust for the OFT Of ce of Fair Trading.
help inspire school children to take more timing of Easter falling on 8 April 2007 exercise and to eat more healthily.
Organic Organic farming prohibits the in 2005, Active Kids is open to all nursery, use of arti cial fertilisers, pesticides, growth primary and secondary schools as well ESOP trusts Employee Share Ownership regulators and additives in livestock feed.
as Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
The International Federation of Organic www.
co. uk activekids Agriculture Movements IFOAM accredits national organic certifying bodies.
Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an AGM Annual General Meeting This independent consumer label that year the AGM will be held on Tuesday 15 guarantees a fair deal for marginalised Pipeline Sites which the Group has July 2008 at The International Convention workers and small scale farmers in an interest in developing in the future.
Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA developing countries.
a minimum price that covers the cost of ROCE Return on Capital Employed.
production and an extra premium that B shares Preference B shares issued on is invested in the local community.
12 July 2004 as part of the Return of Capital www.
Sainsburys SO organic Sainsburys Fair value The amount for which an asset organic sub brand range of products.
basics Sainsburys core sub brand range could be exchanged, or a liability settled, of products.
between knowledgeable, willing parties in SORIE Statement of recognised income an arms length transaction.
BGTY Be Good to Yourself Sainsburys healthier alternative sub brand freefrom Sainsburys range of products TSR Total Shareholder Return The range of products.
Products are either: guaranteed to be wheat, gluten or dairy free.
growth in value of a shareholding over a those with less than three per cent fat or speci ed period, assuming that dividends those with less calories, salt and saturated FSA Food Standards Agency.
are reinvested to purchase additional units fat than standard lines.
CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing Ttd Taste the difference Sainsburys Securities.
company, runs the FTSE4Good index series premium sub brand range of products.
to measure the performance of companies Company J Sainsbury plc.
that meet CR standards, and to facilitate Try something new today The marketing investment in those companies.
campaign in support of Making Sainsburys CC Competition Commission An www.
independent public body which conducts in-depth inquiries into mergers, markets and GDAs Guideline Daily Amounts.
TU Sainsburys own label clothing range.
The CC is undertaking an investigation into the supply Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
TU home Sainsburys sub brand of groceries by retailers in the UK.
uk Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
Underlying basic earnings per share CR Corporate responsibility The need IFRIC International Financial Reporting Pro t after tax from continuing operations to act responsibly in managing the impact Interpretations Committee.
attributable to equity holders before any on a range of stakeholders: customers, gain or loss on the sale of properties, colleagues, investors, suppliers, the IFRS International Financial Reporting impairment of goodwill, impairment of community and the environment.
Standard s. properties held within joint ventures, nancing fair value movements and one-off Different by design Sainsburys general IGD Institute of Grocery Distribution.
items that are material and infrequent in merchandise brand which mirrors the www.
com nature, divided by the weighted average premium Taste the difference food range.
number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the ESOP Income statement Formerly known as the Different values Campaign launched pro t and loss account under UK GAAP.
trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
in 2007 to emphasise the higher quality speci cations and great value of Sainsburys Underlying pro t before tax Pro t ISA Individual Savings Account.
before tax from continuing operations before any gain or loss on the sale of JV Joint venture A business jointly Dividend cover Underlying pro t after tax properties, impairment of goodwill, owned by two or more parties.
from continuing operations attributable to impairment of properties held within joint equity shareholders divided by total value ventures, nancing fair value movements Like-for-like sales The measure of year of dividends declared during the year.
and one-off items that are material and on year same store sales growth.
DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Allows shareholders to reinvest their cash Underlying operating pro t loss dividend in shares of the Company through Underlying pro t before tax from continuing Mtdd Make the difference days a specially arranged share dealing service.
operations before finance income and Launched in April 2007 to raise awareness finance costs.
and action around different social, EBITDAR Earnings before income tax, environmental and ethical issues and depreciation, amortisation and rent.
working partnership with customers to make 90 a sustained difference.
EPS Earnings per share Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders MTL Multiple traf c lights Nutritional divided by the weighted average number labels which provide effective at-a-glance of ordinary shares in issue during the year, information customers need to make excluding those held by ESOP trusts, which healthier choices when shopping.
Around are treated as cancelled.
5,000 Sainsburys products carry our Wheel of Health MTL label.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Notes 91 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 J Sainsbury plc Notes 92 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Designed by sasdesign.
This Report is printed on Revive Uncoated, a recycled paper containing 100% post consumer collected waste.
The paper is FSC accredited as a recycled grade.
The printer is certi ed to the environmental management system ISO 14001 and is also Carbon Neutral.
Our annual report can be found online at www.
co. uk report2008 - Providing information in this way has signi cantly reduced the amount of paper printed and dristributed and is in keeping with our principle of respect for our environment.
We hope you agree this is a change for the better.
The FSC Logo identi es products which contain wood from well managed forests www.
co. uk certi ed in accordance with the rules of Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark J Sainsbury plc, 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C.
