qxd 26 3 09 5:54 pm Page 98 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of James Fisher and Sons Public Limited Company will be held at the Abbey House Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness on Thursday 7 May 2009 at noon to consider and, if thought fit, to pass Resolutions 1 to 9 inclusive as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 10 to 14 inclusive as special resolutions: ORDINARY BUSINESS Resolution 1 To receive the accounts and the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Resolution 2 To receive and approve the report on directors remuneration as set out on pages 22 to 28 of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Resolution 3 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 8.65p per ordinary share payable on 15 May 2009 to shareholders on the Register as at 17 April 2009.
Resolution 4 To re-elect Mr S. A. Harris as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
Resolution 5 To re-elect Mr M. Storey as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
Resolution 6 To re-elect Mr C. J.
Rice as a director of the Company, who retires by rotation.
Resolution 7 To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolution 8 That the authorised share capital of the Company be and is hereby increased from 16,680,000 to 20,800,000 by the creation of an additional 16,480,000 ordinary shares of 25p each.
Resolution 9 That the directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot: a relevant securities as defined in the said section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,128,654: b relevant securities comprising equity securities within the meaning of section 94 of the Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 4,128,654 provided that they are offered by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such record date and to other holders of equity securities entitled to participate therein, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter, provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on 7 August 2010, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexercised authorities previously granted to the directors to allot relevant securities be and are hereby revoked.
Resolution 10 SPECIAL RESOLUTION That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 9 above or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: 98 114650 James Fisher R&A Pt11.
qxd 26 3 09 5:54 pm Page 99 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of Resolution 9 by way of rights issue only in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date as the directors may determine and other persons entitled to participate therein where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such record date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 619,298: and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 9 above, save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Resolution 11 SPECIAL RESOLUTION The Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange of up to a maximum aggregate of 2,400,000 ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company at a price per share of not less than 25p and not more that 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for such ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Official List, for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, such authority will expire at the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may purchase ordinary shares at any later date where such purchase is pursuant to any contract or contracts made by the Company before the expiry of this authority.
Resolution 12 SPECIAL RESOLUTION That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to hold general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 days notice from the date of passing of this resolution and expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Resolution 13 SPECIAL RESOLUTION That the articles of association produced to the meeting, initialled by the Chairman of the meeting, and marked Pre-October Articles for the purpose of identification be adopted as the new articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles of association.
Resolution 14 SPECIAL RESOLUTION That, with effect from 00.01 a. m. on 1 October 2009: a the articles of association of the Company be amended by deleting all the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association which, by virtue of section 28 Companies Act 2006, are to be treated as provisions of the Companys articles of association: b subject to c below, the articles of association produced to the meeting, initialled by the Chairman of the meeting, and marked Post-October Articles for the purpose of identification be adopted as the new articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles of association: and c if Resolution 13 was not passed at the meeting, article 99 borrowing powers in the existing articles of association of the Company shall be substituted for article 95 restriction on borrowing powers in the Post-October Articles.
B. Tyler Company Secretary 16 March 2009 Registered office: Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR Registered in England number: 211475 99 114650 James Fisher R&A Pt11.
qxd 26 3 09 5:54 pm Page 100 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 4.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by 1.
Any member who has not elected to receive the Annual Report and utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Accounts for 2008 may obtain copies by writing to the Company Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those Secretary, Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow in Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR.
CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, Members who wish to receive the printed Annual Report and Accounts, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who free of charge, in future years should write to the Companys will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for Registrars, Capita Registrars, PO Box 25, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4BR.
a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the 2.
Any member entitled to vote at the above meeting may appoint one appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be or more proxies to attend, speak and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain the information meeting in order to represent a member.
A proxy could be the required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who message regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a has agreed to attend and represent a member.
Details of how to proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appoint the Chairman or another person as a proxy using the proxy appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
A member can received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 by the latest time s appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as different shares held by him.
Completion of the proxy form will not determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST preclude a member from attending and voting in person, in which Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve case that members proxy appointment will automatically be the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Proxy forms, duly executed including any authority The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the under which it is executed or a copy of the authority certified circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated notarially, must reach the Companys Registrars office, Capita Securities Regulations 2001.
Registrars, PO Box 25, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4BR, not less than 48 5.
Copies of the directors service contracts, the terms and conditions of hours before the meeting.
Proxy forms may also be hand delivered to appointment of the non-executive directors, together with a copy of Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, the Companys articles of association are available for inspection at Kent, BR3 4TU during normal office hours.
The deadline for receipt of the registered office of the Company during usual business hours and proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions, will also be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting from and any attempt to amend a proxy appointment after the relevant 11.30 a. m. on the date of the meeting until the close of the meeting.
Where two or more valid proxy appointments are received in respect of the same share in respect of 6.
A final dividend can only be paid after it has been approved by the the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as shareholders in general meeting and may not exceed the amount replacing and revoking the other or others.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 8.65p per ordinary share for payment to ordinary 3.
The right to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by persons who shareholders who are on the register at the close of business on 17 have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under April 2009.
If approved the final dividend will be paid on 15 May 2009. section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person : they can only be exercised by the member.
Only persons entered on the register of members of the Company at may have a right under an agreement between him and the member 6.00pm on 5 May 2009 or, if the meeting is adjourned, at 6.00pm on by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the the date which is two days prior to the adjourned meeting shall be meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Person does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote and the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Nominated Persons number of votes they may cast at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
should contact the registered member by whom they were nominated in respect of these arrangements.
qxd 26 3 09 5:54 pm Page 101 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8.
As at 16 March 2009 being the latest business day prior to the In light of these revised guidelines, the Board considers it appropriate publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital that directors be granted authority to allot shares in the capital of the consists of 49,773,161 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each, and Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 8,257,309 representing 100,000 preference shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore the the new guideline limit of approximately 66% of the Companys issued total voting rights in the Company are 49,873,161. ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 16 March 2009 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice.
Of this Ordinary Business Explanatory Note amount 16,514,618 shares representing approximately 33% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares can Resolutions 4, 5 and 6.
In accordance with the Companys articles of only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
This authority will last until association Mr S. A. Harris, Mr M. Storey and Mr C. J.
Rice will retire by the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2010 or, if earlier rotation at this years AGM.
The board believes that each of Mr S. A. Harris, 7 August 2010.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this Mr M. Storey and Mr C. J.
Rice continues to perform effectively and with authority.
As at the date of this notice the Company is holding 229,305 commitment to his role.
Further information about each of Mr S. A. Harris, shares in treasury representing 0.46% of the Companys issued ordinary Mr M. Storey and Mr C. J.
Rice is given on page 13 of the 2008 Annual share capital excluding treasury shares as at 16 March 2009 the latest Report and Accounts.
practicable date before publication of this notice.
Special Business Explanatory Notes Resolution 10 will give the directors authority to allot shares in the capital Resolution 8 comprises a proposal to increase the authorised share of the Company pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 9 for capital of the Company in order to provide sufficient headroom to allow cash without complying with the pre-emption rights in the Companies Act the issue of additional shares within the parameters established by 1985 in certain circumstances.
In the light of the new ABI guidelines Resolution 9 and Resolution 10.
With effect from 1 October 2009 the described in relation to Resolution 9 above, this authority will permit the concept of authorised share capital is abolished by The Companies Act directors to allot: 2006 and accordingly this limit on authorised share capital will cease to be of relevance.
a shares up to a nominal amount of 8,257,309 representing 66% of the companys issued share capital on an offer to existing Resolution 9 deals with the directors authority to allot shares.
At the last shareholders on a pre-emptive basis.
However unless the shares are Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 1 May 2008, the directors allotted pursuant to a rights issue rather than an open offer, the were given authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the directors may only allot shares up to a nominal amount of 4,128,654 Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 4,142,898 representing representing 33% of the companys issued share capital in each approximately one third of the Companys then issued ordinary share case subject to adjustments for fractional entitlements and overseas capital.
This authority expires at the end of the forthcoming Annual shareholders : and General Meeting.
b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 619,298, representing In December 2008, the Association of British Insurers ABI revised approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the its guidelines on directors authority to allot shares in line with the Company as at 16 March 2009 the latest practicable date prior to recommendations of the report issued in November 2008 by the Rights publication of this notice otherwise than in connection with an offer Issue Review Group.
The ABIs guidelines previously stated that the to existing shareholders.
directors general authority to allot shares should be limited to an amount equal to one-third of the Companys issued share capital.
The new The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
guidelines state that ABI members will permit, and treat as routine, The directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the resolutions seeking authority to allot shares representing up to two-thirds Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of the Companys issued share capital.
The guidelines provide that the of authorities within a rolling three-year period.
The Principles provide extra routine authority that is the authority to allot shares representing that companies should not issue shares for cash representing more than the additional one-third of the Companys issued share capital can only 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year be used to allot shares pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
period, other than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
qxd 26 3 09 5:54 pm Page 102 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 11 gives the Company authority to purchase in the market up to Resolution 14 seeks to reflect the remaining provisions of the 2006 Act 2,400,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p each representing approximately that will be coming into effect on 1 October 2009, as well as a number of 5 per cent of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
The other technical or clarifying changes.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be new articles of association were adopted by shareholders.
At the time it held in 2010 and replaces a similar authority granted on 1 May 2008 which was noted that the phased implementation of the 2006 Act was likely to expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The mean that shareholders would be asked to approve further changes to directors have no present intention of using the authority and in reaching the articles of association at the next Annual General Meeting.
their decision to purchase ordinary shares will take into account, amongst The principal changes in the new articles of association proposed to be other things the Companys cash resources and capital requirements, the adopted pursuant to Resolution 14 relate to the Companys constitution effect of any purchase on earnings per share and whether it is in the best and share capital.
Under the 2006 Act all provisions of the Companys interests of shareholders generally.
memorandum, but most significantly the objects clause, will be deemed to Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution to approve the form part of the Companys articles from 1 October 2009.
It is possible for holding of general meetings, other than Annual General Meetings, on 14 the objects clause to be removed or amended by amending the articles by days notice.
Although the Companys Articles of Association currently special resolution.
It is not necessary under the 2006 Act for a company permit this, regulations are due to come into force on 3 August 2009 to to set out its objects.
The 2006 Act provides that, unless the articles state implement the Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK which, as currently otherwise, a companys objects will be unrestricted.
One of the other key drafted, will require the passing of a shareholder resolution to authorise provisions of the memorandum which will be deemed to form part of the such notice.
Without the passing of this resolution, the minimum notice Companys articles from 1 October 2009 is the existing authorised share period under the regulations, as currently drafted, would be 21 days.
The 2006 Act removes the requirement for a company to place limits on its authorised share capital.
By adopting new articles Resolutions 13 and 14 will be proposed as special resolutions to approve which do not contain the objects clause or the authorised share capital with reference to Resolution 13 the adoption of new articles of statement, the Company will remove these provisions from its articles, association of the Company incorporating revised borrowing powers, to which would otherwise be deemed to form part of the Companys articles be in place for the period from the close of the meeting until, subject to under section 28 of the 2006 Act.
Resolution 14 being passed, 1 October 2009 the Pre-October Articles, and with reference to Resolution 14 the adoption of new articles of For a more detailed explanation of these and other amendments, please association with effect from 1 October 2009, when the remaining refer to the Appendix to this document.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act come into force Copies of the current articles of association and the new articles of the Post-October Articles.
association that are proposed to be adopted pursuant to Resolutions 13 Resolution 13 concerns a proposed amendment to the borrowing powers and 14 will be available for inspection during normal business hours set out in the articles of association of the Company.
At present, the Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office Company is permitted to borrow an aggregate amount not exceeding four of the Company up to the time of the meeting.
Copies will be available at times its adjusted capital and reserves.
In performing this calculation the the Abbey House Hotel, Abbey Road, Barrow-in-Furness on the morning of articles provide that goodwill must be deducted from the capital and the meeting from 11.30 am until its conclusion.
The Company is not in breach of these particular provisions but APPENDIX: SUMMARY OF POST-OCTOBER ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION the directors are of the opinion that it is not appropriate for the Company to continue to operate under the constraint of the borrowing powers as The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, which is replacing the currently set out in the articles and that an update is required.
A Companies Act 1985 the 1985 Act has been implemented in stages and significant proportion of the Companys capital and reserves comprises will be fully in force by 1 October 2009.
Under Resolution 14, the Company goodwill attributable to acquisitions carried out in recent years, Whereas will be adopting new articles of association the Post-October Articles previously this goodwill would have been reduced through amortisation which will reflect the changes in company law brought about by the 2006 over a number of years, changes to the accounting treatment of goodwill, Act which are to come into effect on 1 October 2009. such that it is only reduced to the extent that it is considered to be As well as those changes, the Post-October Articles include some impaired, have meant that the goodwill associated with these acquisitions other modernising and clarificatory amendments, including, where remains reflected in full in the Companys accounts.
Deducting this appropriate, tracking the wording of the new model form articles for goodwill in this manner effectively places an out of date and artificial public companies contained in Schedule 3 to the Companies Model constraint upon the ability of the Company to borrow additional monies to Articles Regulations 2008 the model form articles, which are fund, for example, further acquisitions.
The Company is predominantly a replacing the Table A articles under the 1985 Act on which many of the service based business, as opposed to one heavily dependant upon the Companys current articles are based.
value of any physical assets it owns, and as such goodwill forms an important constituent of its value.
Therefore it is proposed that new borrowing powers be adopted by the Company, which powers, amongst other matters, will not deduct goodwill in the calculation of adjusted capital and reserves.
This is in common with other UK listed service based companies.
At the same time in order to maintain a prudent balance within the powers it is proposed that the multiple of adjusted capital and reserves be reduced from four to three.
qxd 26 3 09 5:54 pm Page 103 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Set out below is a summary of the principal changes.
As a result of the Redeemable shares Article 6 proposed amendments, the numbering of provisions in the Post-October Under the 2006 Act, the articles of association need not include the Articles does not correspond to the current articles, and references in terms on which redeemable shares may be redeemed.
The directors may the summary below are to the provisions as renumbered in the Postdetermine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of October Articles.
redeemable shares provided they are authorised to do so by the articles.
The Post-October Articles contain such authorisation.
The Company The proposed amendment to the Companys borrowing restrictions currently has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it did so the contained in the Pre-October Articles, and the subject of Resolution 13, is directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the reflected in the proposed Post-October Articles.
As the borrowing usual way.
restrictions in the Post-October Articles and Pre-October Articles are identical, reference should be made to the summary of this provision in Uncertificated Shares Articles 9 & 10 the explanatory notes to Special Business.
Where shares in the Company are held in uncertificated form, a member's shareholding is reflected in an electronic register and the member is not The Companys objects issued a separate physical share certificate by the Company.
The PostThe 2006 Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a October Articles expressly permit the holding and transfer of shares in the companys memorandum.
The provisions governing the operations of the Company in uncertificated form.
Article 9 provides for the Company to Company are currently set out in both its memorandum of association issue shares in uncertificated form, and to convert shares from and its articles of association.
Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum will certificated form to uncertificated form and vice versa.
Article 10 states no longer contain an objects clause and will simply record the names of that where a member holds shares of the same class in both certificated the subscribers and the number of shares which each subscriber agreed and uncertificated form, these will be treated as separate holdings.
Under section 28 of the 2006 Act, the objects clause and all other provisions in the memorandum will be treated as part Share certificates Article 13 of the articles with effect from 1 October 2009 but the Company can The Post-October Articles contain new provisions for the issue of remove these provisions by special resolution.
Unless the articles provide consolidated share certificates, in line with the model form articles.
otherwise, the Companys objects will be unrestricted.
The Company is A member whose shareholding in the same class has increased can proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions request a consolidated certificate or an individual certificate of its memorandum which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, are to be treated as forming part of the Companys articles of association as of 1 October Interest on calls Article 21 2009.
Resolution 14 confirms the removal of these provisions and adopts The current articles provide that if a call remains unpaid after it has the Post-October Articles.
become due, the directors may determine that the member shall pay interest on the amount unpaid at a rate of up to 20%, per annum.
Under Limited liability Article 3 the Post-October Articles, the rate of interest charged on unpaid amounts Under the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association will also no longer can not exceed 5%, per annum contain a clause stating that the liability of the shareholders of a company is limited.
For existing companies, this statement will Transfer of shares in uncertificated form Article 30 automatically be treated as having moved into the articles on 1 October New Article 30 of the Post-October Articles provides that shares held in 2009.
As noted in the paragraph above, Resolution 14 confirms the uncertificated form may be transferred using a relevant electronic trading removal, from the Companys articles of association, of the provisions of system and recorded on an electronic register of members, but such a the Companys memorandum of association which are to be treated as transfer cannot be in favour of more than four transferees.
forming part of the Companys articles of association by virtue of section 28 of the 2006 Act, which includes the statement of limited liability.
An Refusal to register transfers Article 31 explicit statement of the shareholders limited liability is therefore The discretion of the directors to refuse to register a transfer of shares included in the Post-October Articles.
has been extended to include a transfer of shares held in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold them thereafter in certificated form, in Authorised share capital and unissued shares cases where such refusal is permitted under the Uncertificated Securities The 2006 Act abolishes the concept of authorised share capital and under Regulations 2001. the 2006 Act, the memorandum of association will no longer contain statement of the Companys authorised share capital.
For existing Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide companies, this statement will be deemed to be a provision of the shares, and reduce share capital Article 41 Companys articles of association setting out the maximum amount of At present, a company requires specific authorisations in its articles of shares that may be allotted by the Company.
The adoption of the Postassociation to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its October Articles by the Company will have the effect of removing this shares and to reduce its share capital.
Under the 2006 Act, public provision relating to the maximum amount.
Directors will still need to companies do not require specific authorisations in their articles of obtain the usual shareholders authorisation in order to allot shares.
association to undertake these actions, but shareholder authority will still References to authorised share capital and to unissued shares have be required.
Amendments have been made to the Post-October Articles to therefore been removed from the Post-October Articles.
qxd 26 3 09 5:54 pm Page 104 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Proceedings at General Meetings Articles 49, 50, 52 and 53 Directors remuneration, gratuities and pensions Article 98 Articles 49 and 50 of the Post-October Articles contain provisions relating This article enables directors who hold another office, such as that of to orderly conduct and security at general meetings.
These provisions chairman, or who serve on any committee of the directors, to be paid enable the directors to refuse entry to, or to eject, persons seeking to additional remuneration as well as their basic directors fees.
attend a general meeting if they refuse to submit to appropriate security Procedures regarding board meetings & resolution in writing searches or other security arrangements.
Articles 52 and 53 allow Articles 104 and 107 members to simultaneously attend and participate in general meetings at satellite meeting places, including by way of video link.
Such members or Article 104 makes it clear that notice of a board meeting may be proxies who chose to attend and participate at satellite meeting places given personally, by telephone, in hard copy or in electronic form.
would be counted in the quorum and be entitled to vote as if they were The requirements for giving notice to directors who are not in the attending the meeting at its principal venue.
United Kingdom have also been clarified.
In order to clarify the procedure for written resolutions of directors, Article 107 has been Retirement of directors by rotation Article 83 amended so that, rather than referring to a resolution in writing by all The Post-October Articles have been redrafted in order to make it clearer directors, a resolution in writing will be valid and effectual as if it had and to ensure as far as possible a regular number of retiring directors been passed at a meeting if executed by all the directors entitled to each year, with the number to retire being the number nearest to onereceive notice of the meeting and who would have been entitled to third of the board.
Article 83 continues to comply with Combined Code vote on a resolution at a meeting.
7.1 which recommends that all directors should be subject to Quorum Article 108 re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The proposed amendment to Article 108, which deals with the quorum Removal of director Article 86 requirement for board meetings, clarifies that a director cannot count in Under the current articles, the Company may remove a director by the quorum for a matter or resolution on which he is not entitled to vote ordinary resolution before the expiration of his period of office without but he may count in the quorum for the other matters or resolutions to prejudice to a claim in damages for breach of contract.
Article 86 of the be considered or voted on at the meeting.
Post-October Articles provides that, in addition to any power to remove a Permitted interests and voting Article 109 director under the Companies Acts, the Company may remove a director by special resolution.
Article 109 has been amended to allow a director to vote on a resolution which relates to giving him an indemnity or funding for expenditure Alternate directors Articles 89, 91 and 93 incurred in defending proceedings provided all the other directors have Article 89 now clarifies that an alternate director is entitled to be paid been given or are to be given arrangements on substantially the same expenses but not directors fees.
Article 91 is a new provision which terms.
This exception has become a common exception for listed effectively applies the provisions of Article 86, regarding removal of companies to include.
Article 93 c makes it clear that an Making and retention of minutes Article 132 alternate is subject to the same restrictions as the director who appointed him.
Article 132 contains a new provision to the effect that minutes must be retained for at least 10 years, reflecting the relevant provision of the 2006 Provisions for employees on cessation or transfer of business Act no minimum retention time was previously specified.
Article 96 The seal Article 135 The 2006 Act provides that the powers of the directors to make provision for a person employed or formerly employed by a company or any of its Article 135 provides that instruments other than share certificates to subsidiaries in connection with the cessation or transfer of the whole or which the seal is affixed shall be signed by one authorised person in the part of the undertaking of the company or that subsidiary may only be presence of a witness, whereas previously the requirement was for exercised by the directors if they are so authorised by the companys signature by either a director and the secretary or two directors.
articles or by the company in general meeting.
Article 96 provides that Indemnification of directors Article 139 the directors may exercise this power.
The proposed amendment to the directors indemnity provision in Article Delegation to persons or committees Article 97 139 makes it clear that the Company may, subject to the provisions of the Article 97 follows the new, simplified approach to delegation adopted 2006 Act, indemnify a director of an associated company that is a trustee in the model form articles, allowing the directors to delegate as they of an occupational pension scheme, taking advantage of the qualifying decide appropriate.
pension scheme indemnity provision in section 235 of the 2006 Act.
