90 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare the The directors are responsible for keeping proper financial statements of the Company for each accounting records that disclose with reasonable financial year.
Under that law the directors have accuracy at any time the financial position of the prepared Company financial statements in Company and to enable them to ensure that the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted financial statements comply with the Companies Accounting Practice.
The financial statements are Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding required by law to give a true and fair view of the state the assets of the Company hence for taking of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of responsible steps for the prevention and detection the Company for that period.
of fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing these financial statements the directors The directors are responsible for the maintenance and are required to: integrity of the website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of select suitable accounting policies and then apply financial statements may differ from legislation in them consistently other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent By order of the board state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume B J Burrows that the Company will continue in business, in Company Secretary which case there should be supporting 6th April 2009 assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each of the directors have taken all the steps that he ought to have taken in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor was aware of such information.
