56 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Statement of Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors are responsible for keeping proper Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report accounting records that disclose with reasonable and the financial statements in accordance with accuracy at any time the financial position of the applicable law and regulations.
Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Company law requires the directors to prepare the Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, financial statements for each financial year.
Under as regards the Group financial statements, article 4 that law the directors have prepared the Group of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for financial statements in accordance with International safeguarding the assets of the Group including taking Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of by the European Union.
The financial statements are fraud and other irregularities.
required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the The directors are responsible for the maintenance Group for that period.
and integrity of the website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of In preparing these financial statements the directors financial statements may differ from legislation in are required to: other jurisdictions.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently By order of the board Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate B J Burrows to presume that the Group will continue in Company Secretary business, in which case there should be supporting 6th April 2009 assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each of the directors have taken all the steps that he ought to have taken in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors were aware of such information.
