100 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Glossary and advisors Advisors Glossary of terms Company Secretary Mcf Thousand cubic feet B J Burrows Bcf Billion cubic feet cfpd Cubic feet per day Registered office 6 Cavendish Square MMcfd Million cubic feet per day London W1G 0PD Mbbl Thousand barrels Registered in England Number: 3050645 MMbbl Million barrels bcpd Barrel of condensate per day Auditors bpd Barrel per day  LLP 1 Embankment Place bopd Barrel of oil per day London WC2N 6RH boe Barrel of oil equivalent Registrars Mboe Thousand barrels of oil equivalent Equiniti MMboe Million barrels of oil equivalent Aspect Hose Spencer Road boepd Barrel of oil equivalent per day Lancing sq.
km Square Kilometre West Sussex BN99 6DA $ United States Dollars Principal bankers LIBOR London InterBank Offered Rate Standard Bank plc US United States Cannon Bridge House 25 Dowgate Hill Hryvna The lawful currency of Ukraine London EC4R 2SB Roubles The lawful currency of Russia Stockbrokers Brewin Dolphin Investment Banking Conversion factor: 6,000 standard cubic feet of gas 1 boe 48 St Vincent Street Glasgow G2 5TS Financial advisors Investec 2 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QP Solicitors Denton Wilde Sapte 5 Chancery Lane Cliffords Inn London EC4A 1BU This is an important document, if you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult an appropriate independent advisor such as an accountant or a lawyer.
Overview Where we operate UKRAINE Central to Group operations accounting for virtually all of Group revenue, and 50% of Group capital expenditure in 2008.
It remains a focus for future growth.
RUSSIA With almost half of Group reserves booked in the Koshekhablskoye field, Russia is a major development focus.
First gas now forecast for late 2010.
HUNGARY Following the Hajdnns gas discovery in 2008, the Group has booked 0.8 MMboe of reserves, and expanded its exploration portfolio in Hungary.
BULGARIA Remains a major part of our central European exploration effort, with activity moving to the eastern part of the large Golitza licences.
We welcome visits to our website www.
co. uk SLOVAKIA Farmed-in to three exploration licences in 2008, Designed and produced by db&co expanding our central European www.
co. uk, in association with exploration portfolio.
Robson Dowry and RPD Consulting.
Photography by Mike Abrahams, Board photography Pete Thompson GEORGIA With Anadarko indicating Satellite images Planetery Visions Ltd its desire to withdraw from the West Printed in the UK by Midas Press.
Georgia offshore licence The report is printed on Revive 50:50 Silk JKX 4% NPI, we are considering which is produced with 50% recycled bre our right to regain the licence.
from both preand post-consumer sources, together with 50% virgin bre from sustainable forests independently certi ed according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with ISO 14001 standard for environmental management.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Report & Accounts 2008 We develop oil and gas interests in and around the states of the former Soviet Union with a particular JKX Oil & Gas plc 6 Cavendish Square focus upon Ukraine London W1G 0PD Telephone 44 0 20 7323 4464 and Russia.
We utilise our extensive regional experience, knowledge and expertise, to deliver value to you, our shareholders.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Report & Accounts 2008
