98 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE is given that the Annual General Meeting of relevant securities in pursuance of such an JKX Oil & Gas plc the Company will be held at the offer or agreement as if the authority offices of Cardew Group, 12 Suffolk Street, London conferred hereby had not expired, and further, SW1Y 4HG on Wednesday 3rd June 2009 at 11.00 am ii the directors be and they are hereby generally for the following purposes: and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity As ordinary business securities within the meaning of Section 94 of 1.
To receive the accounts of the Company, the the Act in connection with a rights issue or Directors Report, and the Auditors Report other offering in favour of ordinary thereon for the year ended 31st December 2008. shareholders where the equity securities 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for respectively attributable to the interests of all the year ended 31st December 2008. ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of 3.
To reelect Lord Fraser of Carmyllie Q. C. who has ordinary shares held by them up to an served on the Board for more than nine years and aggregate nominal amount of 5,219,053 whose biographical details are included at page provided that this authority shall expire unless 38 of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts, as a previously renewed, varied or revoked by the director of the Company.
Company in general meeting five years from 4.
To reelect Viscount Asquith who has served on the date of this resolution save that the the Board for more than nine years and whose Company may before such expiry make an biographical details are included at page 38 of the offer or agreement which would or might 2008 Annual Report and Accounts, as a director of require relevant securities to be allotted after the Company.
such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an 5.
To reelect Dipesh Shah who retires and whose offer or agreement as if the authority biographical details are included at page 38 of the conferred hereby had not expired.
2008 Annual Report and Accounts, as a director of the Company.
That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased from 25,000,000 to 30,000,000 by 6.
To reelect Michel-Marc Delcommune who retires the creation of 50,000,000 ordinary shares of and whose biographical details are included at 10 pence each ranking pari passu in all respects page 38 of the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts, with the existing ordinary shares of 10 pence each as a director of the Company.
in the capital of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company until the conclusion of As special business the next general meeting of the Company at To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following which accounts of the Company are laid before resolutions, which will be proposed as special the members and to authorise the directors to resolutions.
That in substitution for any existing authority 8.
To declare the dividend recommended by the pursuant to Section 166 of the Act, the Company directors of the Company.
be and is hereby generally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 9.
That in substitution for all existing authorities 163 of the Act pursuant to and in accordance with but without prejudice to the exercise of any such Section 166 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares authority prior to the date hereof and subject to in the capital of the Company upon and subject to passing resolution ten below: the following conditions but otherwise i the directors be and they are hereby generally unconditionally: and unconditionally authorised to exercise all a the maximum number of ordinary shares powers of the Company to allot relevant hereby authorised to be purchased is securities within the meaning of Section 80 of 15,657,160 the Companies Act 1985 the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,219,053 b the maximum price which may be paid for provided that this authority shall expire unless each such ordinary share shall be an amount previously renewed, varied or revoked by the equal to 105% above the average of the middle Company in general meeting five years from market quotations for an ordinary share as the date of this resolution save that the derived from the London Stock Exchange Company may before such expiry make an Daily Official List for the five business days offer or agreement which would or might immediately preceding the day on which require relevant securities to be allotted after such ordinary share is contracted to be such expiry and the directors may allot purchased exclusive of expenses and the Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 99 minimum price which may be paid for such This power applies in relation to a sale of shares ordinary share shall be the nominal value of which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue such ordinary share at the time of such of Section 94 3A of the Act as if in the first purchase exclusive of expenses : and paragraph of this resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution nine c unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, above were omitted.
the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the earlier of the date 15 months 13.
That notwithstanding the subsequent coming into after the passing of this resolution and at the force of the Companies Shareholders Rights conclusion of the next annual general meeting Regulations 2009 a general meeting other than an of the Company after the date on which this annual general meeting may be called on not less resolution is passed, provided that the than 14 clear days notice.
Company may before such expiry date enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
That subject to the passing of resolution nine Company Secretary above and in substitution for any existing power Registered office: under Section 95 of the Act but without prejudice 6 Cavendish Square, to the exercise of any such authority prior to the London W1G 0PD date hereof the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Notes: Section 94 2 to section 94 3A of the Act for cash 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is also pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, nine above as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the apply to any such allotment provided that this Company.
power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: 2.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is i in connection with a rights issue or other signed or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority offering in favour of ordinary shareholders must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Equiniti, where the equity securities respectively Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA attributable to the interests of all ordinary not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
Completion and shareholders are proportionate as nearly as return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from may be to the respective numbers of ordinary attending or voting at the Meeting if they wish.
shares held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 3.
Copies of the directors service contracts and the terms of directors may consider necessary or expedient engagement for nonexecutive directors, together with the register of directors share interests, are available for to deal with fractional entitlements, statutory inspection at the registered office of the Company during restrictions or legal or practical problems normal business hours on each business day until the under or resulting from the application of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and will also be laws of any territory or the requirements of available at the place of the Annual General Meeting from at any recognised regulatory body or stock least 15 minutes prior to the Meeting until its conclusion.
exchange in any territory: and ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,565,716 and shall expire unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting five years from the date of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
