62 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts continued reserve.
Such translation differences are only 2.
Adoption of new and revised International recognised as income or as expenses in the period in Financial Reporting Standards continued which any such operation is disposed of.
IFRIC 17, Non cash distributed to owners effective The Parent Company and subsidiaries within the 1st July 2009.
Group hold monetary intercompany balances for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in IFRIC 18, Transfer of assets from customers the foreseeable future and thus this is considered effective 1st July 2009. to be part of the Groups net investment in the b Standards, amendments and interpretations to relevant subsidiary.
An exchange difference arises on existing standards effective in 2008 but not relevant.
translation in the Company income statement which on consolidation is recognised in equity, only being The following standards, amendments and recognised in the income statement on the disposal of interpretations to published standards are mandatory the net investment.
for the Groups financial statements for accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2008 but The major exchange rates used for the revaluation of they are not relevant to the Group: the closing balance sheet at 31st December 2008 were: 1 $1.4376 2007: 1 $1.9908 IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and treasury share $1 UAH 7.75108 2007: $1 UAH 5.05 transactions $1 RUB 29.3804 2007: $1 RUB 24.5385.
IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes and acquisition are treated as assets liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at closing rate.
IFRIC 16, Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation effective 1st October 2008.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprises the Groups 3.
Significant accounting policies tangible oil and gas assets together with computer Basis of consolidation equipment, motor vehicles and fixtures and fittings The consolidated financial statements incorporate and are carried at cost, less any accumulated the financial statements of the Company and entities depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up Cost includes purchase price and construction costs to 31st December each year.
Control is achieved where for qualifying assets and borrowing costs capitalised the Company has the power to govern the financial in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain Depreciation of these assets commences when the benefits from its activities.
assets are ready for their intended use.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their Oil and gas assets acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains Exploration and development expenditure is accounted control.
for under the successful efforts method.
The successful efforts method means that only costs which Foreign currencies relate directly to the discovery and development of The presentation currency of the Group is the specific oil and gas reserves are capitalised.
US Dollar based on the fact that the Groups primary transactions originate in, or are dictated by, the Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised within US Dollar, these being amongst others oil sales and intangible assets.
Capital expenditure on producing procurement of rigs and drilling services.
assets is accounted for in accordance with IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment.
Costs incurred prior Foreign currency transactions are translated into to obtaining legal rights to explore are expensed functional currency using the exchange rates immediately to the income statement.
prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign exchange All lease and licence acquisition costs, geological and gains and losses resulting from the settlement of geophysical costs and other direct costs of exploration, such transactions and from translation at year-end evaluation and development are capitalised as exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities intangible or property, plant and equipment according denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in to their nature.
Intangible assets comprise costs the income statement.
relating to the exploration and evaluation of properties which the directors consider to be unevaluated until On consolidation of subsidiaries with a non USD reserves are appraised as commercial, at which time functional currency, balance sheets are translated they are transferred to into USD at the closing rate and income and expenses property, plant and equipment following an impairment at the average monthly rate.
All resulting exchange review and depreciated accordingly.
Where properties differences arising on the balance sheet are classified are appraised to have no commercial value, the as equity and transferred to the Groups translation Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 63 Group accounts Ukraine 3.
Significant accounting policies continued are grouped together as a Cash Generating Unit for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest associated costs are treated as an impairment loss in level at which their identifiable cash flows, that are the period in which the determination is made.
largely independent of the cash flows of the other Costs are amortised on a field by field unit of groups assets, can be determined.
In the case of production method based on commercial proved exploration and evaluation assets this will normally and probable reserves, with the exception of be at a field level.
compressors, which are depreciated on a If any such indication of impairment exists the Group straight-line basis 10 years over their anticipated makes an estimate of its recoverable amount.
recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less The calculation of the unit of production costs to sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amortisation takes account of estimated future amount of an individual asset or a Cash Generating development costs and is based on current period Unit exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset end unescalated price levels.
Changes in reserves Cash Generating Unit is considered impaired and is and cost estimates are recognised prospectively.
written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows Other assets are adjusted for the risks specific to the asset Cash Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost, Generating Unit and are discounted to their present less estimated residual value, over their estimated value that reflects the current market indicators.
useful lives, using the straight-line method, for the Excluding goodwill, where an impairment loss following classes of assets: subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of Motor vehicles 4 years the asset Cash Generating Unit is increased to the Computer equipment 3 years revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but Other equipment 5 to 10 years so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been The estimated useful lives of property, plant and determined had no impairment loss been recognised equipment and their residual values are reviewed on for the asset Cash Generating Unit in prior years.
an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as lives are accounted for prospectively.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between Financial instruments the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the The Group may use derivative financial instruments asset and is recognised in the income statement for primarily foreign currency forward contracts to the relevant period.
hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain firm commitments Business combinations and Goodwill and forecasted transactions.
Any such derivatives are Business combinations are accounted for using the initially recorded at fair value on the date on which purchase method.
the contract is entered into and subsequently remeasured at fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the business combination over A financial liability is derecognised when the the Groups share in the net fair value of the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and or expires.
No financial instruments were designated as hedges After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost during the period 2007: nil and no other hedging less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the activity took place during the period 2007: nil.
purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, Inventories allocated to each of the Groups Cash Generating Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net Units that are expected to benefit from the synergies realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials of combination.
and, where applicable, direct labour costs plus attributable overheads based on a normal level of Impairment of intangible assets and property, activity and other costs associated in bringing the plant and equipment inventories to their present location and condition.
At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews Cost is calculated using the weighted average the carrying amounts of its property, plant and method.
Net realisable value represents the equipment and intangible assets to determine estimated selling price less all estimated costs of whether there is any indication that those assets completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, have suffered an impairment loss.
Individual assets selling and distribution.
64 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other Trade and other receivables than in a business combination of other assets and Trade receivables, which generally have 30 day terms, liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax are recognised and carried at the lower of their profit nor the accounting profit.
original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in Cash and cash equivalents subsidiaries, and interests in joint ventures, except Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand where the Group is able to control the reversal of and current balances with banks and similar the temporary difference and it is probable that institutions, which are readily convertible to known the temporary difference will not reverse in the amounts of cash.
Cash equivalents are short-term foreseeable future.
with an original maturity of less than 3 months, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed known amounts of cash and which are subject to an at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent insignificant risk of changes in value.
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset Treasury shares to be recovered.
Any such reduction shall be reversed JKX Oil & Gas plc treasury shares held by the to the extent that it becomes probable that sufficient Company are classified in shareholders equity.
taxable profit will be available.
The consideration paid, including any directly Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are attributable incremental costs is deducted from equity expected to apply in the period when the liability is attributable to the Companys equity holders until the settled or the asset realised based on tax rates and shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares laws substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income received, net of transaction costs, is included in equity statement, except when it relates to items charged or attributable to the Companys equity holders.
No gain credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred or loss is recognised in the financial statements on tax is also dealt with in equity.
the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of treasury shares.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there exists a legal and enforceable right to offset and Trade payables they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using assets and liabilities on a net basis.
the effective interest rate method if the time value of money is significant.
Share-based payment Share options Taxation The Group issues equity-settled share-based Income tax expense represents the sum of the current payments to the directors and senior management.
tax payable and deferred tax.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured The current tax payable is based on taxable profit at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value of the for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit employee services received in exchange for the grant as reported in the income statement because it of options is expensed on a straight-line basis over excludes items of income or expense that are taxable the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of or deductible in other years and it further excludes options that will eventually vest.
At each subsequent items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups balance sheet date the Group calculates the estimated liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates cumulative charge for each award having regard to that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the any change in the number of options that are expected balance sheet date.
to vest and the expired portion of the vesting period.
The change in this cumulative charge since the last Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or balance sheet is expensed.
Once an option vests, no recoverable on differences between the carrying further adjustment is made to the aggregate amount amount of assets and liabilities in the financial expensed.
The fair value which is calculated using the statements and the corresponding tax base used in the binomial model takes into account two performance computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities criteria, being the actual increase in the Companys are generally recognised for all taxable temporary share price and a comparison of the actual increase differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to in the share price to the change in FTSE FI until end of the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be June 2004, the FTSE SI until end of February 2006 and available against which deductible temporary the higher of the FTSE 250 Index or the FTSE Oil & differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 65 Group accounts Ukraine 3.
Significant accounting policies continued estimate of the discount rate used are reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the property, plant Gas Producers Index subsequent to that.
The unwinding of the discount is expected life of the options depends on the behaviour recognised as a finance cost.
of the option holders, which is incorporated into the option model consistent with historic data.
The Revenue recognition fair values calculated are inherently subjective and Sales of oil and gas products are recognised when uncertain due to the assumptions made and the the significant risks and rewards of ownership have limitations of the model used.
passed to the buyer and it can be reliably measured.
Other services are recognised when the services The proceeds received net of any directly attributable have been performed.
Revenue is measured at the transaction costs are credited to share capital fair value of the consideration received, excluding nominal value of 10p per share and share premium discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
when the options are exercised.
Interest income is recognised as the interest The rules regarding the scheme are described in the accrues, by reference to the net carrying amount at Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 52 the effective interest rate applicable.
and in note 20 on share based payments.
Leasing Bonus Scheme Rentals payable under operating leases are charged The Group operates a bonus scheme for its Directors to income on a straight-line basis over the term of and employees.
The scheme has three performance the relevant lease.
conditions: 1. financial objectives 2. increase in share price and 3. key strategic objectives.
The bonus Dividends payments are made annually, normally in January of Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid each year and the costs are accrued in the period to to the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are which they relate.
recognised when they are approved by shareholders.
Pension costs Interests in joint venture agreements The Group contributes to the individual pension The Group is party to a number of joint venture scheme of the qualifying employees choice.
contractual arrangements with other parties Contributions are charged to the income statement venturers which govern the operation of associated as they become payable.
The Group has no further jointly controlled assets.
payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an Provisions economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint Provisions are recognised when the Group has a control exists only when the strategic financial and present obligation as a result of a past event, and it operating decisions relating to the activity require the is probable that the Group will be required to settle unanimous consent of the venturers.
Provisions are measured at the Where a group company undertakes its activities directors best estimate of the expenditure required under joint venture arrangements, the Groups to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and share of jointly and directly controlled assets and are discounted to present value where the effect is any liabilities incurred jointly with other ventures are material.
recognised and classified according to their nature.
Income from the sale or use of the Groups share Decommissioning of the output of jointly controlled assets, and its Provision is made for the cost of decommissioning share of joint venture expenses, are included in the assets at the time when the obligation to consolidated financial statements in proportion to decommission arises.
Such provision represents the the Groups interest.
estimated discounted liability the discount rate used currently being at 10%, 2007: 10% for costs which are expected to be incurred in removing production facilities and site restoration at the end of the producing life of each field.
A corresponding item of property, plant and equipment is also created at an amount equal to the provision.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production facilities.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure attributable to changes in the estimates of the cash flow or the current
