72 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts continued 5. d Impairment test for property, plant and equipment and goodwill As noted in the Groups accounting policies, a review was undertaken at the balance sheet date of the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment to determine whether there was any indication of triggers that may have led to these assets suffering an impairment loss.
Following this review an impairment trigger was noted in relation to Yuzhgazenergie YGE in Russia.
As noted in the Operations Review, following the 2007 acquisition of YGE in Russia, a technical and environmental re-evaluation of YGEs Koshekhablskoye gas field re-development was undertaken by the Group.
The re-evaluation resulted in a revised development plan and production profile.
The anticipated cost of the development plan has increased by approximately 30% from that forecast at the time of the acquisition and first gas sales from the project are now expected in the second half of 2010, two years later than originally planned.
The Group considered this to represent an indication of impairment in accordance with IAS 36 and an impairment test was undertaken.
The test compared the recoverable amount of the Cash Generating Unit CGU, being YGE for the purpose of the review, to the carrying value of the CGU including goodwill.
The estimate of recoverable amount was based on fair value less costs to sell, derived by estimating discounted after tax cash flows for the CGU based on estimates that a typical market participant would use in valuing such assets.
In accordance with IAS 36, the impairment review has been undertaken in Russian Roubles, the currency in which the CGUs future cash flows will be generated.
The key assumptions used in the impairment testing were: Production profiles: these were based on the latest available reserve information provided by independent reserve engineers.
Gas prices: these were based on the Russian governments targets to achieve net-back convergence with the European gas markets.
Capital and operating costs: these were based on project estimates provided by third parties.
Post tax Rouble discount rate of 15.9%: this was based on a Capital Asset Pricing Model analysis.
Accordingly any impairment is dependent upon judgement used in determining such assumptions.
The amount by which YGEs recoverable amount exceeds its carrying value, based upon the above assumptions, is approximately $10m.
The impact on the impairment calculation of applying different assumptions to production, gas prices, capital expenditure and post-tax discount rates would be as follows: Increase Decrease in impairment headroom for Yuzhgazenergie CGU $m Impact if production: Increased by 1% 4 Decreased by 1% 4 Impact if gas price: Increased by 1% 4 Decreased by 1% 4 Impact if capital expenditure Increased by 1% 2 Decreased by 1% 2 Impact if post-tax discount rate Increased by 1% 16 Decreased by 1% 18 During the first half of 2009 it is expected that the results of the workover programme on the first three wells at YGE will become available.
At that time the assumptions adopted in the impairment test will be reviewed to determine if a further impairment test is required at that time.
Goodwill Goodwill was recognised in 2007 in relation to the Groups acquisition of Yuzhgazenergie YGE amounting to $2.2m at 31st December 2008.
The goodwill arose after the application of IAS12 Income Taxes, and is attributable principally to expanded growth opportunities in Russia.
In accordance with IAS36 Impairment of Assets, and following the Groups decision that an indication of potential impairment arose in relation to the property, plant and equipment for the reasons more fully disclosed above a review for impairment of the related goodwill was undertaken.
The carrying amount of the goodwill was allocated to the YGE Cash Generating Unit CGU as described above.
The test compared the recoverable amount of the CGU, being YGE for the purpose of the review, to the carrying value of the CGU including goodwill.
The calculations use the same assumptions as used for property plant and equipment as more fully described above.
