66 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Notes to the accounts continued 3.
Significant accounting policies continued when they do reverse.
This requires assumptions regarding future profitability and is therefore inherently Critical accounting estimates and assumptions uncertain.
To the extent assumptions regarding future The Group makes estimates and assumptions profitability change, there can be an increase or concerning the future.
The resulting accounting decrease in the level of deferred tax assets recognised estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related that can result in a charge or credit in the period in actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that which the change occurs.
Tax provisions are based on have a risk of causing material adjustment to the enacted or substantively enacted laws.
To the extent carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the that these change there would be a charge or credit next financial year are discussed below.
to income both in the period of change, which would include any impact on cumulative provisions, and in a Recoverability of tangible and intangible oil and future periods.
gas costs Costs capitalised as tangible and intangible assets are 4.
Segmental analysis assessed for impairment when circumstances suggest Segmental Information that the carrying value may exceed its recoverable The primary segmental reporting format is value.
This assessment involves judgement as to i determined to be the geographical segment according the likely commerciality of the asset, and ii future to the location of the asset.
The directors consider the revenues and costs pertaining and the discount rate to Group to have a single class of business, being the be applied for the purposes of deriving a recoverable exploration for, development and production of oil and value.
Further disclosure is included in note 5. gas reserves.
Accordingly no secondary segmental information is presented.
b Decommissioning The Group has decommissioning obligations in There are five geographic reporting segments.
respect of its producing interests.
The full extent to The Ukraine and USA are involved with production which the provision is required depends on the legal and exploration: Russia and the Rest of World are requirements at the time of decommissioning, the involved in exploration and development and the UK costs and timing of any decommissioning works and is the home of the head office.
The Rest of the World the discount rate applied to such costs.
segment comprises operations in Hungary, Bulgaria, Georgia, Slovakia and Turkey.
c Depreciation of oil and gas assets Transfer prices between segments are set on an arms Oil and gas assets held in property plant and length basis in a manner similar to transactions with equipment are mainly depreciated on a unit of third parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and production basis at a rate calculated by reference to segment results include transfers between segments.
proven and probable reserves and incorporating the Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
estimated future cost of developing and extracting those reserves.
Future development costs are estimated using assumptions as to the numbers of wells required to produce those reserves, the cost of the wells, future production facilities and operating costs together with assumptions on oil and gas realisations.
d Taxation Tax provisions are recognised when it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to the tax authorities.
In this case, provision is made for the amount that is expected to be settled.
This requires judgements to be made on the outcome, which can change over time depending on facts and circumstances.
A change in estimate of the likelihood of a future outflow and or in the expected amount to be settled would result in a charge or credit to income in the period in which the change occurs.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will be recoverable.
This involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether or not there will be sufficient taxable profits available to offset the tax assets Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 67 Group accounts Ukraine 4.
