Operations Environmental Technologies Division Year to 31st March % 2008 2007 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 2,290 1,864 23 24 Sales excluding precious metals 1,140 896 27 29 Operating profit 147.3 122.9 20 21 Before amortisation of acquired intangibles Description of the Business Key Statistics Return on sales excluding precious metals 12.9% Environmental Technologies Division is a global supplier of Return on invested capital ROIC 15.2% catalysts and related technologies for applications which benefit Capital expenditure 105.8m the environment such as pollution control, cleaner fuel, more Capex depreciation 2.4 times Average invested capital 970m efficient use of hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
The Employees 4,730 division consists of three global businesses: Emission Control Technologies ECT Performance in 2007 08 ECT comprises Johnson Mattheys global autocatalyst, heavy duty diesel and stationary source emissions control businesses.
Our new Environmental Technologies Division achieved strong We are a world leading manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle growth in the year.
Revenue rose by 23% to 2,290 million: exhaust emission control and a leader in catalyst systems for sales excluding precious metals were 27% up at 1,140 million: the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from and underlying operating profit before amortisation of acquired industrial processes.
Manufacturing takes place in the UK, intangibles increased by 20% to 147.3 million.
Translated at Germany, Belgium, Russia, USA, Mexico, Argentina, South Africa, constant exchange rates, sales excluding precious metals increased Japan, Malaysia, India, China and South Korea.
R&D facilities are by 29% and underlying operating profit was 21% higher.
in the USA, UK, Germany, Sweden, Japan, South Korea and Brazil.
Emission Control Technologies Process Technologies Process Technologies manufactures process catalysts for the Emission Control Technologies sales excluding precious metals syngas, methanol, ammonia, hydrogen, gas coal to products, grew by 32% to 903 million.
Sales of heavy duty diesel HDD oil refineries and gas processing industries.
Davy Process catalysts to original equipment manufacturers OEMs accounted Technology develops chemical process technologies and for 105 million of the increase rising from 54 million in licenses them to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical 2006 07 to 159 million in 2007 08.
Sales of light duty products industries.
Our Tracerco business is an industrial leader in were also well ahead with good growth in Asia and increasing specialist technology for the diagnostics, measurement and fitment of particulate filters on new diesel cars in Europe.
analysis of process plant conditions across the hydrocarbon The acquisition of Argillon added 11.4 million to sales and chain.
Process Technologies is a global business with 2.9 million to operating profit before amortisation of acquired manufacturing sites in the UK, India and China, supported by intangibles in the last two months of the year.
Profit growth was several UK based technology centres and technical offices stronger in the second half of the year than the first with the in key centres around the world.
division benefiting from improved efficiencies.
Return on sales operating profit sales excluding precious Fuel Cells metals for ECT in 2007 08 was lower than in 2006 07 reflecting Johnson Matthey is a world leader in catalysts and catalysed the change in product mix with rapid growth in products using components for fuel cells.
expensive filter substrates which are a pass through cost for Johnson Matthey.
The cost of substrates for these new products is now beginning to come down.
Going forward, ECTs return on sales is expected to stabilise at current levels despite the continued growth in sales of new products.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 BUSINESS REVIEW Vehicle Emissions Legislation Timeline Brazil S. Korea Euro III Euro IV HDD proposed HDD Rest of India Euro III HDD World Brazil Euro IV S. Korea HDD India K-ULEV Euro 3 national Brazil L4 Brazil L5 China Euro 3 Euro 4 national 1 national 1 Japan LTP Japan Japan HDD HDD J-2000 J-LEV New LTP Euro IV Euro V Russia HDD HDD Euro 2 Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Stage IIIB Stage IV non road non road European Euro III Euro IV Euro V Euro VI Union HDD HDD HDD HDD Euro 1 Euro 2 Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 4 non road USA US04 US07 US2010 HDD HDD HDD LEV I N-LEV LEV II CA CA 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 In Johnson Mattheys financial year to 31st March 2008 emissions legislation requiring autocatalyst fitment in Russia in global light duty vehicle sales increased by 4.5% to 70.0 million.
Production rose by 5.7% reflecting an overall increase in Our business in Asia continues to perform very well.
Around half of the growth in production came in the next decade we expect that most of the growth in world car Asia, which was 8.4% up on last year.
Within Asia, sales grew by production will take place in the Asian region.
Other markets showing strong achieved strong volume growth in China, India and Japan and our growth include South America, Eastern Europe and Russia.
ECT operation in Malaysia also continued to perform well.
Our new is well represented in all these locations.
Light duty vehicle sales plant in South Korea our fifth in the Asian region was opened in in North America were 3.9% down in our financial year.
This new plant will manufacture catalysts for both diesel and petrol powered vehicles and will carry out research and development activities to support the rapidly growing Korean Estimated Light Vehicle Sales and Production motor industry.
Further capacity expansions are planned for each Year to 31st March 2008 2007 change of our factories in China, India and Japan.
millions millions % Despite continued weakness in the domestic car market, North America Sales 19.6 20.4 -3.9% our North American business achieved good growth in the Production 14.7 15.0 -2.0% year with the introduction of new diesel products.
Most of the Total Europe Sales 22.4 21.4 4.7% growth was for HDD products but light duty diesel catalyst Production 22.3 21.2 5.2% sales for pick up trucks also increased significantly.
Asia Sales 17.9 16.4 9.1% Production 27.0 24.9 8.4% We expect the value of the global market for HDD catalysts Global Sales 70.0 67.0 4.5% to grow from an estimated US $700 million excluding precious Production 70.4 66.6 5.7% metals by the end of 2008 to approximately US $3 billion by Source: Global Insight the end of 2014.
New standards are scheduled to be introduced in Europe in October 2009 and North America and Japan in We continue to see increasing demand from many of the 2010 which will require the use of additional catalysts.
Legislation is also planned in South Korea, China, India and Brazil.
In 2011 leading car companies in Europe for diesel particulate filters DPFs to remove particulates from diesel exhaust emissions.
legislation will start for non road vehicles in Europe and North America.
To meet this rapid growth in demand, and further Although legislation requiring such emission control devices does not come into full force in Europe until October 2010, most car expansion in the light duty diesel market, Johnson Matthey is constructing new factories in Macedonia and Pennsylvania, USA manufacturers have started to fit these devices earlier.
Nearly 8 million diesel cars were sold in Western Europe last year of which should be operational by the end of 2009.
The acquisition of Argillon in February 2008 adds valuable which less than half were fitted with DPFs.
Over the next two and a half years the DPF market is set to double as all new diesel technology to ECTs existing emission control capabilities for controlling oxides of nitrogen NOx.
As well as products for the cars will require fitment.
In 2007 08 we constructed a new factory in Royston, UK to manufacture catalysed DPFs, doubling HDD truck market, Argillon manufactures catalysts for power plants, industrial applications and waste incineration plants.
These our existing capacity to meet the anticipated market growth.
During the year we also completed construction of a new products have application in coal fired power stations to reduce harmful NOx emissions.
This could become a major market in a autocatalyst manufacturing facility in the Russian Federation.
This plant will produce catalysts to meet demand from both local few years time as coal is increasingly used to produce electricity and people around the world become more concerned about air and global car manufacturers following the introduction of 16 Johnson Matthey Estimated Global Methanol Capacity Additions Deletions 2001 -2010 Million Additions Deletions Metric Tonnes 10 8 6 4 2 0 -2 -4 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Oman Methanol Company LLC Plant, Oman.
The acquisition of Argillon also adds to ECTs existing Fuel Cells business selling NOx control systems for large stationary engines The net expense of our Fuel Cells business continues to fall as and in marine applications.
demand for its products grows.
In 2007 08 the net expense fell by 0.9 million to 6.4 million.
The order book for its products Process Technologies is strong and reflects an increasing range of applications as customers start to commercialise niche fuel cell products.
Sales Process Technologies sales excluding precious metals grew by 10%.
of membrane electrode assemblies MEAs grew over a broad The Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas AMOG business was base to companies that are commercialising fuel cells using well ahead of last year with continued strong demand for catalysts hydrogen, methanol and natural gas as fuels.
and purification materials for industries where hydrogen or Fuel cells fuelled directly by methanol DMFC sustained synthesis gas are key intermediates.
Demand for methanol the growth seen last year and the number of companies catalysts was strong and, with new capacity for methanol coming supplying this type of technology also grew.
Applications include on stream or under construction, the outlook for future growth portable power supplies and battery rechargers that remove of catalyst sales continues to be encouraging.
In China a significant the dependence of batteries on mains charging.
This is useful number of projects are based on utilising the countrys large not only in areas remote from the grid but also in situations coal reserves and thereby reducing its reliance on expensive when the time taken to recharge a battery offline affects imported oil.
The high price of oil is encouraging the use of more catalysts During the year many automotive companies were publicly for hydrogen production in oil refineries and increased sales of robust in their view that hydrogen powered fuel cell cars were purification materials to remove pollutants such as sulphur and the way forward and the California Authorities have confirmed mercury.
Sales of ammonia catalysts were also buoyant in 2007 08 that the timescale for zero emission vehicle introduction is with growth stimulated by significantly increased demand for unchanged.
The combination of fuel cells with batteries that can ammonia used in the production of fertiliser.
be recharged from the mains is attractive to car companies and Davy Process Technology, which develops and licenses legislators alike.
chemical process technologies, had another good year.
Major In a significant development, the use of natural gas licensing contracts included oxo alcohol projects in China and powered fuel cells to provide combined heat and power to India, a methylamine and choline chloride project in Thailand and commercial buildings has progressed well and we have seen a methanol licence for a coal to methanol project in the USA.
growth in sales of both catalysts and MEA components to this Tracerco, Process Technologies oil services business, also sector this year.
Interest in these products is supported by the achieved good growth in the year, successfully integrating Quest increasing concern over carbon dioxide emissions from TruTec which was acquired in April 2006.
The high oil price buildings and the sensitivity of developers and major companies continued to stimulate strong demand for Tracercos specialist to this issue.
diagnostic services and equipment for oil production platforms and refineries.
A major expansion programme is underway at our UK factory in Clitheroe to manufacture the latest generation of catalysts for AMOG.
We are also continuing to invest heavily in research and development on new products including novel catalysts and technologies for converting gas and coal into petrochemical intermediates and fuels.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17 BUSINESS REVIEW Operations Precious Metal Products Division Year to 31st March % 2008 2007 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 4,688 3,824 23 26 Sales excluding precious metals 307 290 6 7 Operating profit 102.1 85.3 20 21 Description of the Business Key Statistics Return on sales excluding precious metals 33.2% Precious Metal Products Division is organised into five businesses: Return on invested capital ROIC 54.3% Capital expenditure 12.0m Platinum Marketing and Distribution Capex depreciation 0.9 times The business consists of our worldwide platinum marketing and Average invested capital 188m distribution activities.
Marketing is headquartered in Royston, Employees 1,959 UK with support facilities in Philadelphia, USA and Hong Kong.
We are the worlds leading distributor of platinum group metals Performance in 2007 08 pgms and the sole marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest producer of platinum.
Precious Metal Products Divisions revenue increased by 23% to 4,688 million, boosted by higher prices for pgms.
In sterling Noble Metals terms the average price of platinum rose by 20%.
Sales excluding Noble Metals produces a wide range of precious metal and the value of precious metals were 6% up at 307 million with other fabricated products for industrial and medical applications.
good growth in the divisions manufacturing businesses.
Johnson Matthey is the market leader in pgm fabricated Operating profit grew by 20% to 102.1 million.
Translated at products for industrial applications.
Manufacturing takes place in constant exchange rates, sales excluding precious metals the UK and USA.
increased by 7% and operating profit grew by 21%.
Pgm Refining and Recycling Our Pgm Refining and Recycling business includes the recovery Platinum Marketing and Distribution of pgms from spent catalysts and other secondary materials and The Platinum Marketing and Distribution business achieved refining primary pgms from global mining operations.
We have strong profit growth in favourable market conditions.
Global facilities in the UK and USA.
demand for platinum in volume terms rose by 9% in the Colour Technologies calendar year 2007.
Demand for platinum in autocatalysts also Headquartered in the Netherlands, our Colour Technologies increased by 9%, with much of the growth generated in Asia.
business manufactures black obscuration enamels and silver Heavy duty diesel emission control catalysts also contributed conductive materials for automotive glass.
It also makes colours, additional demand.
Off-take from jewellery manufacturers was enamels and decorative precious metal products for other glass surprisingly resilient, only slightly down in the face of the rising applications such as bottles and architectural glass as well as for price of platinum, which encouraged fide-stocking and recycling tableware and other ceramic applications.
Manufacturing takes of old jewellery.
place in the Netherlands, USA and South Korea.
The price of platinum was greatly influenced by supply side concerns in 2007 08.
The first nine months of the financial year Gold and Silver saw a steadily rising price supported by a series of production Gold and Silver comprises our gold and silver refining and problems in South Africa.
In January 2008, the price began to bullion manufacturing operations.
The business serves the increase dramatically as power shortages threatened to severely worlds mining industries and recycles secondary scrap material.
curtail South African platinum production.
Platinum peaked at Gold and silver refining operations are located in the USA an all time high of $2,276 oz in early March, averaging and Canada.
Supplies of platinum declined in 2007 08 18 Johnson Matthey Supply of Platinum 2003-2007 Demand for Platinum 2003-2007 Supply of Palladium 2003-2007 Demand for Palladium 2003-2007 Million oz Million oz Million oz Million oz South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Jewellery Industrial Investment South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Jewellery Electronics Other net net 7 7 9 8 8 7 6 6 7 6 5 5 6 5 4 4 5 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 due to these production problems in South Africa.
The platinum catalysts used in the abatement of nitrous oxide, a powerful market was therefore in significant supply demand deficit, greenhouse gas produced as a by product in the manufacture adding to the pressure on the price.
of nitric acid, has continued to develop.
Early sales have been The palladium price also reached its peak in March 2008, made and we have developed a strong position in this market touching $588 oz.
Although South Africa is only the worlds which should generate good revenue growth in the future.
second largest palladium producer, the bullish platinum sentiment arising from production problems spilled over to its Pgm Refining and Recycling sister metal.
The average price for the year was $381 oz.
Our Pgm Refining and Recycling business had another good Physical demand for palladium rose by 4% in 2007. year assisted by higher pgm prices and increased intakes of Autocatalyst demand increased due to higher gasoline vehicle secondary material, especially autocatalyst scrap.
Due to process production outside Europe.
However, demand from Chinese improvements and better utilisation of global refining capacities jewellery manufacturers fell after pipeline filling in previous the business delivered further reductions in the amount of pgms years.
Palladium supply was higher than in 2006 due to an held in the refining circuit.
The business continues to work closely increase in Russian sales, increasing the substantial surplus of with key customers to develop processes and refining services supply over demand.
that will support them in being successful in their markets.
The price of rhodium rose sharply in 2007 08, touching a peak of $9,425 oz in March 2008.
The average price increased Colour Technologies significantly for a third successive year to reach $6,753 oz.
Steady demand from the automotive and glass fabrication Colour Technologies achieved further good growth in 2007 08. industries left little metal to be offered in the spot market.
The business maintained its reputation for innovation by Supply showed a slight increase as South African producers commercialising several new products during the year.
These sold more metal from refined rhodium stocks, but this was included some highly chemically resistant obscuration enamels insufficient to eliminate a supply demand deficit and relieve for the automotive industry and a range of environmentally pressure on a market which was already illiquid.
friendly decorative enamels and porcelain colours.
New After the dramatic rise last year, the price of ruthenium products for the fire retardant and photovoltaic markets also declined steadily in 2007 08 as demand from the electronics achieved initial sales and these are expected to continue to industry for hard disk memory storage was met by adequate grow strongly in the near future.
supply and expanded recycling capacity.
Gold and Silver Noble Metals On 4th May 2007 we sold our small Hong Kong gold refinery Johnson Mattheys Noble Metals business had a very good year.
The groups remaining gold and silver Our operations in the UK and USA both enjoyed good refining operations are now located in Salt Lake City, USA and demand for high quality wires and fabricated products.
These operations had a good year, benefiting catalyst gauzes for nitric acid production also grew.
Sales to the from the high gold and silver prices which stimulated good medical industry from our three sites in California were slightly flows of primary and secondary materials.
down as customers experienced lower demand.
The market for Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19 BUSINESS REVIEW Operations Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division Year to 31st March % 2008 2007 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 521 463 13 15 Sales excluding precious metals 303 268 13 15 Operating profit 67.1 64.2 5 6 Description of the Business Key Statistics Return on sales excluding precious metals 22.1% Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division is a global supplier of fine Return on invested capital ROIC 13.9% chemicals, catalysts and other speciality chemical products and Capital expenditure 25.0m services to a wide range of chemical and pharmaceutical Capex depreciation 1.4 times Average invested capital 483m industry customers and research institutes.
Employees 1,713 Catalysts and Chemicals The Catalysts and Chemicals business manufactures precious Performance in 2007 08 and base metal catalysts, fine chemicals and electrochemical products.
The business sells its products to customers in the Our new Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division achieved good speciality chemical, pharmaceutical, fine chemical and other growth in the year.
Revenue increased by 13% to 521 million, markets.
Manufacturing takes place in the UK, USA, Germany, sales excluding precious metals rose by 13% to 303 million India and China.
and operating profit grew by 5% to 67.1 million.
Translated at constant exchange rates, sales excluding precious metals Macfarlan Smith increased by 15% and operating profit grew by 6%.
Macfarlan Smith manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients Return on sales operating profit sales excluding precious APIs and intermediate products for the pharmaceutical metals was below last year but still satisfactory at 22.1%.
The business specialises in APIs for controlled drugs, division achieved good growth in sales of nickel containing particularly opiate products.
Most of Macfarlan Smiths catalysts, where the high price of nickel boosted sales value but customers are generic pharmaceutical companies.
The business reduced the overall percentage return on sales.
is headquartered in Edinburgh, UK.
The integration of the new division has gone well with a Pharmaceutical Materials and Services number of initiatives to cross sell products and services as well The Pharmaceutical Materials and Services business manufactures as to capitalise on the common, key competencies that run APIs and provides services to the pharmaceutical industry.
The across the division which should support future sales growth.
business specialises in the manufacture of platinum based The majority of the speciality chemicals markets into which the anticancer APIs and controlled drugs and provides a full range division sells continue to expand and most of the divisions of commercial scale manufacturing services for APIs to both pharmaceutical industry customers are generic drug generic and branded pharmaceutical companies.
The business manufacturers who are also currently enjoying good sales growth.
has operations in the USA and Ireland.
Catalysts and Chemicals Research Chemicals The Research Chemicals business is a globally integrated The Catalysts and Chemicals business performed well in the catalogue based supplier of speciality inorganic and organic year generating about 40% of the divisions sales excluding chemicals.
It operates under the Alfa Aesar brand name and is precious metals.
The business experienced strong growth in the based in the UK, USA, Germany, China and India.
Asian region, notably in China, and in heterogeneous catalyst 20 Johnson Matthey Johnson Mattheys new chemical and catalyst manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China.
sales in India, supporting the rapidly expanding pharmaceutical There is an opportunity for additional growth from the industry there.
We completed an expansion of capacity in launch of new products, including the agreed launch in April China for platinum chemicals and catalysts and we are investing 2009 of Barrs generic version of ADDERALL XR.
We expect in a number of other new facilities: in China for manufacturing to see steady growth in sales of APIs for generic controlled sponge nickel catalysts for the local market: in India to provide drugs, particularly those used in the treatment of pain which improved service levels: and also in Germany for catalyst is a growing market, and in speciality niches like prostaglandins.
Prostaglandin APIs manufactured by the business have been Our facilities in Germany achieved good volume growth used by customers in developing new generic products and with increased sales of catalysts used in the manufacture of several of these are in the process of review for regulatory edible oils and chemical products.
chiral ligands, which are used in highly specialised catalysts for the pharmaceutical industry, also showed good growth from a Research Chemicals low base and offers good prospects for the future.
Research Chemicals achieved good growth in the year with increased sales in North America, Europe and Asia.
The business Macfarlan Smith received a good contribution from its joint venture in China, Macfarlan Smiths sales of specialist opiates, particularly which started operation last year, achieving rapid growth from a oxycodone, showed good growth, more than offsetting a low base.
With increasing demand for its products, the business decline in hydromorphone as a result of increased competition.
is investing in the expansion of facilities in India and Europe.
The world market for opiate drugs, which are primarily used to Research Chemicals main brand name is Alfa Aesar which treat pain, continues to grow.
Use of these products increases sells through a globally recognised catalogue.
In January 2008, as the worlds population ages and health care improves in Alfa Aesar launched the latest edition of the catalogue.
In addition growth is supported by the catalogue includes 30,000 chemicals, metals and other materials introduction of new applications and new dosage forms, of which 3,000 were new compared with the last edition.
particularly for specialist opiates, which enable broader, more These new products included many novel fine organics, fuel cell controlled use of these medications.
components, pure metals and catalyst ligand kits.
Under IFRS the costs of preparing the catalogue are expensed when the catalogue is issued to customers, although the catalogue itself Pharmaceutical Materials and Services will last two to three years.
This has the consequence of In North America, the divisions Pharmaceutical Materials and reducing the business reported margins in the year of launch Services business achieved steady growth in revenue.
Sales of and increasing them in the following years.
platinum based anticancer APIs were slightly below last year but sales of opiate products showed good growth.
Revenue from contract research also continued to increase.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21 BUSINESS REVIEW Left: Electron probe microanalysis image showing the distribution of metals in an autocatalyst.
Above: SuperSTEM scanning transmission electron microscopy image showing the location of promoter atoms in Fischer Tropsch catalysts.
Below: Materials preparation facilities at the Johnson Matthey Technology Centre.
