Financial Statements continued Mining reserves and resources RESERVES AND RESOURCES ESTIMATION METHODS Kazakhmys Copper The Republic of Kazakhstan has incorporated by law the classification system and estimation methods for reserves and resources established by the Former Soviet Union FSU and later revised in 1981.
In practice, this means that the statements of reserves and resources developed by Kazakhmys LLC and the mining plans to which they relate must be submitted for approval to the corresponding committees of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources for which adherence to the standardised national system of reserves and resources estimation is mandatory.
As part of the exploitation licence for each mineral deposit, a set of Conditions for Estimation of Reserves Conditions were prepared by the corresponding national design institute and were approved within the national formerly USSR State Plan.
The Conditions apply a well-defined process of classifying the specific deposit into one of five major deposit categories, subject to which, the principles for exploration and classification of reserves and resources have been established.
The Conditions for each deposit specify the method of computation of reserve blocks, the minimum thickness for exploitation of the ore body and cut-off grades, plus special considerations which may apply where the conditions for mineral extraction are exceptional or present difficulties.
Reserves and resources have been estimated by Kazakhmys LLC according to the FSU Classification and Estimation Methods for Reserves and Resources.
It is apparent that there is now more scope than before for flexibility and discussion with state authorities with respect to ore reserve estimation methods.
This has been reflected in the continuing steps taken by Kazakhmys LLC to prepare the records and reserves development plans for the Zhezkazgan mines as  CAD files and to use these as the basis for revised estimation of reserves volumes and to support improved estimation of ore grades.
IMC recognises this as an important step to achieve verifiable and internally consistent estimates.
IMC has reviewed the reserves and resources statements of Kazakhmys LLC and has restated the reserves and resources in accordance with the criteria required to meet JORC standards.
As a general rule, in situ tonnages quoted as balance reserves under the national system, and which meet criteria for categories of confidence and which can be considered to have the potential for future economic extraction, are assessed as resources.
The Kazakhmys LLC internal reporting system derives from these resources a category designated as commercial reserves, on which production planning is based, estimated only from active resources to which modifying factors for losses and dilution are applied: these estimates form the basis for the process of restatement of reserves in accordance with JORC compliant criteria.
All reserves quoted in the following tables are discounted for ore losses and dilution.
Resources are not discounted for losses and dilution and are inclusive of reserves.
All figures in reserves and resources are in metric tonnes and are dated 31 December 2008.
Kazakhmys Gold Following international convention, the Kazakhmys Gold resources reported in this document are in situ estimates, while the reserves make due allowance for mining recovery and dilution, based on actual operational experience in 2008 or assumptions made in feasibility studies.
Resources are inclusive of reserves.
Kazakhmys Power Kazakhmys PLC purchased the Maikuben West coal mine in May 2008 and the mine was visited by IMC geologist and mining engineers in order to determine the available reserves and resources.
The IMC personnel had previously visited this mine several times in the past for audit purposes.
The resources and reserves were calculated on the basis of maximum ash content of 40% and minimum coal seam thickness of 2m with a specific gravity of 1.3 and a maximum dirt parting of 1m, which are excluded from the calculations.
The dilution and losses are 2.7% and 2.1% respectively with an average stripping ratio of 4:1.
Reserves Resources Ore Loss Dilution.
2 Silver and gold values for the Zhezkazgan Complex, Balkhash Complex and East Region for 2007 are not available by blocks, only at the borehole level and have been averaged over each operation by Kazakhmys LLC.
3 Development projects relate to Aktogay, Boschekul, Aidarlay and Zhaisan.
Mine extensions are included within the original ore body as part of operating mines.
No ore loss or dilution has been included.
The total proven and probable reserves of Kazakhmys Copper have increased during 2008 to a total of 2,825 MT, as compared with 2,725 MT at 31 December 2007.
This increase in total proven and probable reserves amounts to 100 MT.
The draw down of reserves due to production during 2008 was 35.7 MT.
The total measured and indicated resources of Kazakhmys Copper have decreased during 2008 to a total of 2,839 MT, as compared with 2,878 MT at 31 December 2007.
This decrease in total measured and indicated resources amounts to 39 MT.
The calculated draw down of resources due to production during 2008 was 36.4 MT.
Inferred resources at Kazakhmys Copper increased during the year from 63 MT to 1,603 MT at 31 December 2008.
This increase is largely due to the acquisition during 2008 of two new deposits at Aidarlay and Zhaisan within the Balkhash Complex.
The resource estimations for these deposits have not been verified by IMC and hence the Soviet era resource figures are included in the least confident resource category.
2 Gold equivalent ounces have been calculated based on the following prices: copper $3,804 2007: $2,756 per tonne, gold $785 2007: $561 per ounce and silver $11.40 2007: $10.20 per ounce.
3 Operating mines consist of the Mizek, Mukur and Zhaima mines.
4 Development projects relate to Mizek Sulphide, Akjilga and Bozymchak.
The decrease in proved reserves is largely attributable to production from Mizek, while the much greater increase in Probable reserves is mainly due to the inclusion of reserves from Bozymchak that had been previously classified as resources.
This follows the completion of a positive feasibility study on the project.
The slight changes in Indicated and Inferred resources are largely attributable to changes in categories at Bozymchak following a new resource estimate, and production from Mukur.
3 ncvar refers to net calorific value as received.
4 Consists of the Molodezhny and Kuu-Chekinsky coal mines which are part of the Karaganda Region.
5 Consists of the Maikuben West coal mine.
144 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements IMC Group Consulting Limited REVISION OF RESERVES AND RESOURCES STATEMENT TO 31 DECEMBER 2008 IMC Group Consulting Ltd IMC has undertaken a review of the reserves and resources estimates prepared by Kazakhmys PLC the Company, as the basis for the preparation of a statement of reserves and resources as at 31 December 2008.
Following the acquisitions of the Maikuben West coal mine by the Company in 2008 as well as Kazakhmys Gold formerly known as Eurasia Gold in 2007, IMC have included statements of reserves and resources in this report.
In the interests of clarity, these recently acquired assets have been referred to as the Kazakhmys Power and Kazakhmys Gold assets respectively.
Two additional deposits within Kazakhmys Copper Aidarlay and Zhaisan, were also acquired in 2008, however, the resource estimations for these deposits have not been verified by IMC and hence the Soviet era resource figures are included in the least confident resource category.
The Statement of Reserves and Resources is restated in accordance with the criteria of the Australasian Code for Reporting Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves 2004, published by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and collaborating institutions the JORC Code.
IMC is satisfied, from the review undertaken, that the recently revised estimates of reserves and resources prepared by the Company are in accordance with the reserve classification system required by law in the Republic of Kazakhstan and that, correspondingly, the estimates have a consistent basis for expressing the degree of confidence for stating quantities of exploitable ore at specific grades of metal content.
On the basis of the estimates supplied by the Company, IMC has applied the same criteria as expressed in the Competent Persons Report at the time of Listing for preparation of the restatement of reserves and resources as at 31 December 2008, in accordance with the reporting criteria of the JORC code.
In the previous statement of resources and reserves prepared by IMC as at 31 December 2007, for the mature copper mining operations the policy was introduced that the category of measured resource, and proven reserves, will be restricted to that ore which has been exposed or is in the process of development within the rolling three-year forward operations plan as formally reported to the State Reserves Committee.
This policy has again been adopted for the present statement for Kazakhmys Copper operations as at 31 December 2008.
John S Warwick BSC Hons FIMMM, C ENG, EUR ING Director, IMC Group Consulting Limited 11 February 2009 IMC Group Consulting Limited Icon Office Building Lake View Drive Sherwood Park Nottingham NG15 0DT United Kingdom www.
