Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
CORPORATE INFORMATION In response to market conditions, the Group has implemented a series of cost cutting measures in the operating businesses, including a O Organisation and operation a significant reduction in discretionary capital expenditure for 2009.
Kazakhmys PLC the Company is a public limited company The Directors have also not recommended the payment of a final incorporated in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern th dividend for 2008.
Advanced negotiations over the sale of a Ireland.
The Companys registered address is 6 Floor, Cardinal proportion of Ekibastuz GRES-1 are taking place which, if successful, Place, 100 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL, United Kingdom.
should generate significant proceeds which will be used to reduce the The Group comprises the Company and its consolidated divisions Groups debt.
In addition, the Groups future borrowing requirements as set out below.
are being discussed with its bankers, its major shareholders and the The Group operates in the natural resources industry.
The Groups Government of Kazakhstan.
The Groups major capital expenditure operations are primarily conducted through the Companys principal projects will only proceed to the extent that committed financing is division, Kazakhmys Copper, whose major business is the mining and fully secured.
processing of copper ore into copper cathodes and copper wire, As at 31 December 2008, the Group has available funds totalling and the refining and sale of precious metals and other by-products $572 million, and an undrawn revolving credit facility of $200 million, of its copper mining process.
of which $150 million has been put on a committed basis to 31 March In line with the Groups strategy of diversifying away from the core 2010.
The Group also holds a 26% stake in ENRC a FTSE 100 Copper business, the Group now operates in a number of divisions company listed on the London Stock Exchange which, at 27 March within the natural resources sector, the principal activities of which 2009, had a market value of $2,165 million.
are as follows as at 31 December 2008: The Directors believe that the Groups current cash position and Primary country available credit lines, the cost cutting measures implemented Operating division Principal activity of operations within the operating businesses, together with the curtailment in Kazakhmys Copper Mining and Kazakhstan discretionary capital spending, anticipated sales proceeds from the processing copper disposal of a proportion of Ekibastuz GRES-1 and other potential MKM Copper processing Germany asset disposals, all provide sufficient cover to meet the Groups Kazakhmys Power Power generation Kazakhstan anticipated cash flow requirements.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has Kazakhmys Gold Mining and Kazakhstan adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the processing gold foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going Kazakhmys Petroleum Oil and gas Kazakhstan concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
exploration b B Basis of accounting The legal names of the constituent companies within the above The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a divisions are shown in note 47 on page 131. historical cost basis, except for certain classes of property, plant and equipment which have been revalued at 1 January 2002 to determine 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION deemed cost as part of the first-time adoption of International The financial statements set out on pages 71 to 132 have been Financial Reporting Standards IFRS at that date, available for sale prepared using consistent accounting policies.
The Company has investments and derivative financial instruments which have been taken the exemption under section 230 4 of the Companies Act measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are 1985 and has not published the Company income statement and presented in US dollars $ and all financial information has been related notes.
rounded to the nearest million dollar $ million except when otherwise indicated.
a G Going concern c B Basis of consolidation The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial impact its future growth and operating performance are set out position as at 31 December 2008 and the Groups financial in the Business Review on pages 2 to 50.
The financial position of performance for the year ended 31 December 2008. the Group, its cash flows, financial risk management policies and available debt facilities are described in the Financial Review on Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group.
In addition, note 34 commencing on page 116 exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as managing its capital structure, liquidity position and financial risks to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated arising from exposures to commodity prices, interest rates and from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease foreign exchange.
to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase As described in the Market Overview commencing on page 22, consideration is allocated to the assets, liabilities and contingent the global economic downturn has resulted in a significant fall in liabilities on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition.
commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2008 and into 2009.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the Whilst the Group has good access to customers in the key markets Groups share of identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired of China and Europe as a result of its advantageous geographical is recognised as positive goodwill.
Negative goodwill arises where position, a period of sustained commodity price weakness will the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of the significantly reduce the profitability of the Group and cash subsidiary exceeds the cost of the acquisition.
Negative goodwill generation from the operating businesses compared to 2008. is recognised directly in the income statement.
As a result of acquisitions made during 2008, the Group has moved The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same into a net debt position of $1,628 million as at 31 December 2008. reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Of the outstanding debt balance of $2,200 million at 31 December All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised 2008, $626 million is repayable over the next 12 months to March profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in 2010.
Further details of the repayment profile can be found in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised note 30 on page 115. gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
78 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements Minority interests primarily represent the interests in Kazakhmys IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements LLC not held by the Company.
The Company applies the equity Revised which is effective for annual periods beginning on concept method of consolidation and accounts for the acquisition or after 1 July 2009.
IAS 27 Revised requires that a change in of minority interests within equity.
the ownership interest of a subsidiary without loss of control is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Therefore such Refer to note 47 for a list of the Companys significant subsidiaries.
transactions will no longer give rise to goodwill, nor will it d S Statement of compliance give rise to a gain or loss.
Furthermore, the amended standard The consolidated financial statements of the Company and all changes the accounting for losses incurred by the subsidiary its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary: issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB Amendments to IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an Investment and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate, which Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB, as adopted by the is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January European Union, and in accordance with the provisions of the 2009.
When an entity reorganises the structure of its group Companies Acts 1985 and 2006. by establishing a new entity as its parent, the amendments require the new parent to measure cost as the carrying amount e E Early adoption of standards and interpretations of its share of the equity items shown in the separate financial In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has statements of the original parent at the date of the reorganisation.
applied the following standards and interpretations before their The new requirements affect only the parents separate financial effective dates: statements and do not have an impact on the consolidated IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions and financial statements: Cancellations Amended.
The Group adopted the amendment IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement to IFRS 2 on 1 January 2008 which clarifies the definition of a eligible hedged items.
These amendments to IAS 39 were vesting condition and prescribes the treatment of an award issued in July 2008 and become effective for financial years that is effectively cancelled because a non-vesting condition beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment addresses is not satisfied: the designation of a one-sided risk in a hedged item, and the IAS 23 Borrowing Costs Revised.
The Group adopted IAS 23 designation of inflation as a hedged risk or portion in particular Revised on 1 January 2008 which requires all borrowing costs situations.
It clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate to be capitalised if they are directly attributable to the acquisition, a portion of the fair value changes or cash flow variability construction or production of a qualifying asset: and of a financial instrument as a hedged item.
The Group has IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 1 Presentation concluded that the amendment will have no impact on the of Financial Statements Puttable Financial Instruments and financial position or performance of the Group: Obligations Arising on Liquidation.
The Group adopted IAS 32 Improvements to IFRSs.
The IASBs improvements project and IAS 1 on 1 January 2008 which allow a limited scope is an annual project that provides a mechanism for making exception for puttable financial instruments to be classified non-urgent but necessary amendments to IFRSs.
There are as equity if they fulfil a number of specified features.
a number of amendments to standards following the 2007 Adoption of these standards and interpretations did not have any improvements project which may result in consequential significant effect on the financial position or performance of the changes to accounting policies and other note disclosures.
They did however give rise to additional disclosures which The Group does not expect the impact of any changes to the are reflected in these consolidated financial statements.
financial statements arising from this project to be significant: Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial f N New standards and interpretations not yet adopted Instruments which is effective for annual periods beginning on or In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has after 1 July 2009.
The amendment permits an entity to reclassify not applied the following relevant standards and interpretations non-derivative financial assets other than those designated that have been issued but are not yet effective: at fair value through profit or loss by the entity upon initial IFRS 3 Business combinations Revised which is effective recognition out of the fair value through profit or loss category for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The amendment also permits an Revised introduces a number of changes in the accounting for entity to transfer from the available for sale category to the loans business combinations occurring after this date that will impact and receivables category a financial asset that would have met the amount of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the the definition of loans and receivables if the financial asset had period that an acquisition occurs and future reported results: not been designated as available for sale, if the entity has the IFRS 8 Operating segments which is effective for annual intention and ability to hold that financial asset for the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Upon adoption foreseeable future: of IFRS 8, the Group will have to disclose additional financial IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, and descriptive information about its reportable segments.
The which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after Group has concluded that the amendment will have no impact 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 16 clarifies issues related to risk from the on the financial position of performance of the Group: foreign currency exposure to the functional currencies of the IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised which foreign operation, holding a hedging instrument in a hedge of is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January a net investment in a foreign operation, and determining the 2009.
The standard separates owner and non-owner changes amounts to be reclassified from equity to profit or loss when the in equity.
The statement of changes in equity will include only entity disposes of the investment.
The Group has concluded that details of transactions with owners, with non-owner changes the interpretation will have no impact on the financial position or in equity presented as a single line.
In addition the standard performance of the Group: and introduces the statement of comprehensive income: it presents all items of recognised income and expense, either in one single statement, or in two linked statements.
The Group is still evaluating whether it will have one or two statements: www.
com 79 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued derived from this exercise equates to the fair value of the 2.
BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED identifiable net assets in accordance with the requirements of IAS IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, which is 28 Investments in Associates and IFRS 3 Business Combinations, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. and the Directors believe that this is an appropriate and reliable IFRIC 17 clarifies the terms as to the recognition of dividends basis for accounting for the piecemeal acquisition of ENRC.
payable and their measurement for non-cash items.
This interpretation is not expected to have any effect on the Group Useful economic lives and impairment indicators as it does not distribute any non-cash assets to shareholders.
Tangible and intangible assets are depreciated over their useful These standards and interpretations will be adopted by the Group economic lives.
Management reviews the appropriateness of useful on the date that they become effective.
The Directors do not economic lives at least annually and any changes could affect anticipate, in light of the circumstances prevailing at the date prospective depreciation rates and hence, asset carrying values.
of approval of this Annual Report, that the adoption of these Management also reviews the carrying value of the Groups tangible standards and interpretations in future periods will have a material and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication impact on the reported income or net assets of the Group in the of impairment such that the carrying values of the assets may not be period of initial application although the manner in which certain recoverable.
The assessment of whether an indicator of impairment information is presented in the consolidated financial statements has arisen can require considerable judgement taking account of may change.
future operational and financial plans, commodity prices, sales demand and the competitive environment.
The carrying value of the g C Change in accounting policies assets of a cash generating unit is compared with the recoverable Following best practice within the metals and mining industry, the amount of those assets, that is, the higher of net realisable value and Group has updated its revenue recognition accounting policy from value in use, which is determined on the basis of discounted future that published in the 2007 Annual Report such that final pricing cash flows.
This involves management estimates on commodity adjustments on sales contracts are considered to be embedded prices, market demand and supply, economic and regulatory derivatives which need to be separately fair valued.
The impact on climates, long-term mine plans and other factors.
Any subsequent the year ended 31 December 2008 has been to decrease profit changes to cash flows due to changes in the factors referred to after tax by $6 million.
The impact on basic and diluted earnings above could impact the carrying value of the assets.
The change in accounting policy does not have a significant impact on the comparative numbers for the year The current global economic downturn has resulted in management ended 31 December 2007.
The updated revenue recognition undertaking a series of impairment tests.
These tests have resulted accounting policy is shown in note 3 o. in the following impairment charges being recognised in the consolidated income statement: h S Significant accounting judgements and estimates i J Judgements Zinc smelter an impairment charge has been recognised Determining many of the amounts included in the consolidated following managements decision to cease production at the financial statements involves the use of judgements.
These Kazakhmys Copper zinc smelter in light of adverse changes judgements are based on managements best knowledge of the in assumptions about future zinc prices and operating costs.
relevant facts and circumstances having regard to prior experience, Accordingly, the carrying value has been fully impaired: but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the Kazakhmys Gold an impairment charge has been recognised consolidated financial statements.
The Directors believe that the following a general change in the long-term strategy of the following judgements, apart from those involving estimates, are division, with the outlook for existing mines and development likely to have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised projects being less attractive than originally anticipated at the in the consolidated financial statements.
time of the acquisition: and Equity accounting Kazakhmys Copper mining assets an impairment charge At 31 December 2008, the Group owned 26.0% of ENRC PLC, has been recognised in relation to the closure of certain mines a Kazakhstan-based mining company listed on the London Stock which are loss making in a period of sustained commodity price Exchange.
Following the share exchange with the Government in weakness and are unlikely, in managements best estimate, 2008 and subsequent market purchases of shares, the investment to reopen in the foreseeable future.
has been recorded as an associate and accounted for under the Specific factors relating to these impairments can be found in equity method.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates states that there note 7. is a rebuttable presumption that significant influence exists where Allocation of excess purchase consideration an investor holds more than 20% of the voting power of the Business combinations require judgement and estimates to investee.
Although Kazakhmys does not have representation on be made at the date of acquisition in relation to determining the board of ENRC, the Directors believe that the Group has the asset and liability fair values and the allocation of the purchase ability to exercise significant influence by virtue of its substantial consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities.
shareholding, whereby the Group owns in excess of 25% of the issued share capital of ENRC and is the single largest shareholder.
In respect of mining company acquisitions, such as the acquisition This interest, coupled with the composition of the ENRC of Kazakhmys Gold in July 2007 and the Maikuben West coal mine shareholder base, confers the Group with certain additional rights in May 2008, excess purchase consideration is typically allocated to and influence under the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules the mining reserves and resources being acquired.
The estimate of of the UK Listing Authority.
Furthermore this position is supported reserves is subject to assumptions relating to life of the mine and by the nature of the relationship and ongoing dialogue between may change when new information becomes available.
Changes in senior representatives of ENRC and the Group.
In the Directors reserves as a result of factors such as production costs, recovery judgement, it is appropriate to account for ENRC as an associate.
rates, grade of reserves or commodity prices could impact depreciation rates, asset carrying values and environmental and The Group acquired its shareholding in ENRC in four tranches restoration provisions.
Changes in assumptions over long-term from October 2007 to October 2008.
In determining the fair value commodity prices, market demand and supply, and economic and of the identifiable net assets of ENRC management, in conjunction regulatory climates could also impact the carrying value of assets.
with external advisers, has performed a fair value exercise of ENRCs assets and liabilities on a discounted cash flow basis.
The fair value 80 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements In respect of non-mining company acquisitions, such as the Note 17 Mining assets.
Estimated recoverable reserves and acquisition of the Ekibastuz power plant in May 2008, the purchase resources are used to determine the depreciation of mining consideration is allocated to the fair value of specific assets and assets, in accounting for mine stripping costs and in performing liabilities acquired, and any excess purchase consideration is then impairment testing: recognised as goodwill, which is tested annually for impairment.
Estimates are made regarding the timing Changes in assumptions over future tariff prices, market demand of future payments: and and supply, and economic and regulatory climates could impact Note 35 Commitments and contingencies.
These require on the carrying value of assets, including the goodwill.
management to make estimates as to amounts payable and Determination of excess profits taxation to determine the likelihood of cash outflows in the future.
The determination of the Groups obligations and expenses for i C Comparative figures taxes requires an interpretation of tax legislation.
Excess profits Where a change in the presentational format of the consolidated tax EPT is imposed on the Group in addition to Kazakh corporate financial statements has been made during the year, comparative income tax on certain profitable subsoil contracts.
EPT is based figures have been restated accordingly.
on an approximation of the internal rate of return IRR with EPT being applicable only where the cumulative IRR exceeds 20%.
In Certain balances previously reported within Equity attributable to determining the IRR for each subsoil contract, there is considerable shareholders of the Company as at 31 December 2007 have been judgement involved as to the allocation of profit amongst the reclassified in respect of the share buy-back transactions that took Groups subsoil contracts, the nature of deductions for capital place during 2007.
These reclassifications have no impact on either expenditure and the timing of those deductions.
The Directors Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company or Total equity.
believe the Groups judgements are reasonable and in compliance with Kazakh legislation, although there is a risk that the tax 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES authorities will have a different interpretation of tax legislation.
The following significant accounting policies have been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for potential transfer pricing liabilities These accounting policies have been consistently applied across For the years ended 31 December 2006, 2007 and 2008, Kazakhmys the Group.
LLC sold its exported products to Kazakhmys PLC 2006 and 2007 and Kazakhmys Sales Ltd 2008, a wholly owned subsidiary of a F Foreign currency translation Kazakhmys PLC, under an exclusive purchasing agreement at the The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined prevailing LME or LBMA prices, with a discount to LME or LBMA as the currency of the primary economic environment in which prices permitted by Kazakh transfer pricing legislation and reflecting it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional the commercial and credit risks borne by the UK operations.
currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling Management believes that these prices, and accompanying discount at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities where applicable, reflect the balance of commercial and credit risks denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of shared between Kazakhmys LLC and the UK operations.
exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions translated at Management has recognised the nature of the transfer pricing the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation legislation promulgated in Kazakhstan and the UK in determining of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, are any consequential tax liabilities in these jurisdictions resulting from taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities the sale of exported products from Kazakhmys LLC to the UK denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost operations for 2006, 2007 and 2008.
The Directors believe the are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange Groups judgements are reasonable and in compliance with UK rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
and Kazakh transfer pricing legislation, although there is a risk that the tax authorities will have a different interpretation of tax legislation.
The functional currencies of the Company and Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, which became the primary UK trading entity with effect from ii E Estimation uncertainty 1 January 2008, is the US dollar $ as the majority of the operating The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in activities are conducted in US dollars.
The functional currency conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates of Kazakhmys LLC, Kazakhmys Power, Kazakhmys Gold and and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and Kazakhmys Petroleum is the Kazakhstan tenge KZT and of MKM is liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Euro.
On consolidation, income statements of subsidiaries reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting are translated into US dollars, at average rates of exchange.
Actual outcomes could differ from these estimates.
Balance sheet items are translated into US dollars at period end In particular, information about significant areas of estimation exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the retranslation are uncertainty made by the Directors in preparing the consolidated taken to a separate component of equity.
Exchange differences financial statements is shown below: on foreign currency borrowings financing those net investments are also dealt with in equity.
All other exchange differences are Note 4 Business acquisition.
Assumptions and estimates are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which required when determining the fair value of the net assets and they arise.
The following foreign exchange rates against the US liabilities of the business acquired, including the timing of cash dollar have been used in the preparation of the consolidated flows and selecting an appropriate discount rate: financial statements: Notes 7 and 15 Impairment losses.
Notes 7 and 15 outline 31 December Average 31 December Average the significant assumptions made in performing impairment 2008 2008 2007 2007 tests: Kazakhstan tenge 120.77 120.30 120.30 122.55 Note 12 Income taxes.
Management make estimates in Euro 0.71 0.68 0.68 0.73 relation to the level of taxes payable which may then be UK pounds sterling 0.69 0.54 0.50 0.50 audited by the tax authorities: www.
com 81 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The cost of each item of property, plant and equipment is 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life CONTINUED has due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the b IIntangible assets present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the i G Goodwill mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining On the acquisition of a subsidiary, or of an interest in a joint venture, useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, associate, or joint arrangement, the purchase consideration is machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major allocated to the assets and liabilities on the basis of their fair value items.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a at the date of acquisition.
Those mineral reserves and resources that straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment of asset or on a unit of production basis depending on the type fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources and of asset.
Changes in estimates, which affect unit of production mineral rights for which, in the Directors opinion, values cannot calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation be reliably determined, are not recognised.
When the cost of commences on the date the assets are used within the business.
acquisition exceeds the fair value attributable to the Groups share Freehold land is not depreciated.
of the identifiable net assets the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses.
Goodwill The expected useful lives are as follows: is not amortised, rather it is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill Buildings 15-40 years is allocated to the cash generating unit or group of cash generating units expected to benefit from the related business combination for Plant and equipment 4-25 years the purpose of the impairment testing.
An impairment loss in respect Fixtures and fittings 3-15 years of goodwill is not reversed.
ii C Construction in progress ii O Other intangible assets Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate Other intangible assets, including mineral licences, which are component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the acquired by the Group and which have finite useful lives, are stated cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be iii R Repairs and maintenance measured reliably on initial recognition, subject to the constraint Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, that, unless the asset has a readily ascertainable market value, the plant and equipment that is accounted for separately, is capitalised fair value is limited to an amount that does not create or increase with the carrying amount of the replaced component being written any negative goodwill arising on the acquisition.
Repairs and maintenance expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other iii A Amortisation repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income Intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise mineral statement as incurred.
licence acquisition costs, which are amortised on a unit of production basis.
Amortisation for other intangible assets, which have expected iv G Government grants useful lives of three to ten years, is computed under the straight-line Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates c R Research and development to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
the fair value is credited to the cost of the asset and is released to Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings the income statement over the expected useful life in a consistent are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or manner with the depreciation method for the relevant asset.
substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised if v L Leasing and hire purchase commitments the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the the Group has sufficient resources to complete development.
The risks and rewards of ownership of the leased items, are capitalised expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour at the commencement of the lease.
Plant and equipment acquired and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Other development by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The capital elements of future obligations d T Tangible assets under leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities i P Property, plant and equipment in the balance sheet.
Lease payments are apportioned between Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated the finance charge and reduction of the lease liability so as to depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost of a tangible fixed achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of asset comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
The cost Capitalised lease assets are depreciated over the shorter of the of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
All other leases and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost are treated as operating leases and the cost is expensed to the or deemed cost of property, plant and equipment hereafter income statement as incurred.
referred to as cost at 1 January 2002, the date of Kazakhmys LLCs transition to IFRS, was determined by reference to its depreciated replacement cost at that date in accordance with IFRS 1.
82 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements vi M Mining assets All capitalised licence acquisition, exploration and evaluation Costs of acquiring mineral properties are capitalised on the balance costs are then written off unless commercial reserves have been sheet in the year in which they are incurred.
Costs associated with a established, or the determination process has not been completed start-up period for significant developments are capitalised during and there are no indications of impairment.
the commissioning period development expenditure where All field development costs are capitalised as property, plant and the asset is incapable of operating at normal levels without a equipment.
Property, plant and equipment related to production commissioning period.
Mineral properties are amortised using activities are amortised on a unit of production basis.
proven developed and undeveloped reserves.
ii C Commercial reserves Mine development costs are, upon commencement of production, Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas depreciated using a unit of production method, which is the ratio reserves, which are defined as the estimated quantities of of commodity production in the period to the estimated quantities crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, of commercial reserves over the life of the mine using proven geophysical and engineering data demonstrate with a specified developed reserves as determined by the local geological degree of certainty to be recoverable in future years from known classification system based on the estimated economically reservoirs and which are considered commercially producible.
recoverable reserves to which they relate.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual Mine stripping costs incurred in order to access the mineral-bearing quantity of recoverable reserves will be more than the amount ore deposits are deferred prior to the commencement of estimated as proven and probable reserves.
Such costs are amortised over the remaining life of the iii D Depletion and amortisation discovery fields mine on a unit of production basis using proven developed reserves.
All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines commencement of production on a unit of production basis, which production phase is deferred if the stripping activity permits is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated an increase in the output of the mine in future periods through quantities of commercial reserves over the life of the field, generally providing access to additional sources of reserves that will be on a field-by-field basis.
Costs used in the unit of production produced in future periods.
Capitalised stripping costs are calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the amortised in systematic manner over the reserves that directly estimated future field development costs.
Changes in the estimates benefit from the specific stripping activity.
of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired through a purchase of transaction, is f IImpairment carried forward as an asset provided that one of the following The Group conducts annual internal assessments of the values of conditions is met: goodwill and capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Values of mine properties and property, plant and equipment are such costs are expected to be recouped through successful assessed for impairment when indicators of such impairment exist.
exploration and development of the area of interest or, If any indication of impairment exists an estimate of the assets alternatively, by its sale: or recoverable amount is calculated.
The recoverable amount is exploration and evaluation activities in the area of interest have determined as the higher of the fair value less costs to sell for not yet reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment the asset and the assets value in use.
In assessing value in use, of the existence or otherwise of economically recoverable the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present reserves, and active and significant operations in relation to value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market the area are continuing.
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
This is determined for an individual asset, unless the Exploration expenditure which fails to meet at least one of the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent conditions outlined above is written off.
Administrative and general of those from other assets or groups of assets.
If this is the case, expenses relating to exploration and evaluation activities are the individual assets are grouped together into cash generating expensed as incurred.
A significant portion of exploration and units CGUs for impairment purposes.
Such CGUs represent the evaluation expenditure relates to mineral licences, which are lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows classified and accounted for as intangible assets.
that are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets Identifiable exploration and evaluation assets acquired in a or other groups of assets.
purchase transaction are recognised as assets at their cost of If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, acquisition from another mining company.
Exploration assets are the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the reassessed on a regular basis and these costs are carried forward income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount to its provided that at least one of the conditions outlined above is met.
recoverable amount i. e. the higher of fair value less cost to sell Exploration and evaluation assets attributable to producing and value in use.
interests are amortised on a unit of production basis.
Impairment losses related to continuing operations are recognised e O Oil and gas assets in the income statement in those expense categories consistent i E Exploration, evaluation and production assets with the function of the impaired asset.
The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting for For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each oil and gas exploration and appraisal costs.
All licence acquisition, reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously exploration and evaluation costs are initially capitalised in cost recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have centres by well, field or exploration area, as appropriate.
If such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate attributable administration costs are capitalised insofar as they of the recoverable amount.
relate to specific exploration and development activities.
Pre-licence costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
com 83 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The Groups income statement reflects the share of associates 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES results after tax and the Groups statement of changes in equity CONTINUED includes any amounts recognised by the associate outside of the A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there income statement based on the actual published results of ENRC.
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of an available for sale investment at the date If this is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased it becomes an associate is considered to be its cost in applying the to its recoverable amount.
The increased amount cannot exceed equity method.
Consequently, no adjustment is made to reverse the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of previous fair value adjustments.
Dividend income continues to be depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset recognised in profit or loss up to the date the investment becomes in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
Any gain recognised within other comprehensive Impairment losses recognised in relation to goodwill are not income remains there until the associate is either impaired or reversed for subsequent increases in its recoverable amount.
i C Calculation of recoverable amount h P Parent companys investments The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value Non-current investments are held at cost.
The Company assesses in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, investments for impairment whenever events or changes in the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely carrying amount of an investment exceeds its recoverable amount independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount the investment is considered impaired and is written down to its is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset recoverable amount.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest i IInventories identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are Raw materials and consumables are stated at the lower of cost and largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or net realisable value on a first-in first-out FIFO basis.
Cost includes groups of assets.
all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each ii R Reversals of impairment product to its present location and condition.
Cost for raw materials An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in and consumables is the purchase price and for work in progress and the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets proportion of depreciation and overheads.
The cost of work in carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that progress and finished goods is based on the weighted average would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, cost method.
In the case of work in progress and finished goods, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
cost includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
g IInvestment in associate Entities in which the Group has the ability to exercise significant Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to are associates, and are accounted for using the equity method be incurred to completion and disposal.
There is a rebuttable presumption of the ability j T Trade and other receivables to exercise significant influence when the Group holds between Trade receivables are carried at original invoice price which is the 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
fair value of the consideration receivable less provision made for Under the equity method of accounting, the investment in the impairment of these receivables.
A provision for impairment of trade associate is recognised on the balance sheet on the date of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the acquisition at cost representing the fair value of the purchase Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the consideration and therefore includes any goodwill on acquisition.
original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the The carrying amount is adjusted by the Groups share of the difference between the original carrying amount and the recoverable post-acquisition profit or loss net of any impairment losses and amount, being the present value of expected cash flows receivable.
dividends receivable from the associate.
Where there has been The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the k C Cash and cash equivalents Group recognises its share of such changes in equity.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, Adjustments are made in the consolidated financial statements short-term deposits held on call or with maturities less than three to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on months at inception and highly liquid investments that are readily transactions between the Group and its associate.
The carrying convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to value of the associate is reviewed on a regular basis and if an insignificant risk of changes in value, and bank overdrafts.
impairment in value has occurred, it is written off in the period l B Borrowings in which those circumstances are identified.
The Groups share Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial is not recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund recognition, borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised such losses.
cost using the effective interest method.
The Group discontinues its use of the equity method from the m E Employee benefits date on which it ceases to have the ability to exercise significant i L Long-term employee benefits influence, and from that date, accounts for the investment in Kazakhmys LLC provides long-term employee benefits to accordance with IAS 39 with its initial cost being the carrying employees before, on and after retirement, in accordance with amount of the associate at that date, provided the investment a labour union agreement.
Such benefits are valued consistent does not then qualify as a subsidiary or joint venture.
with an unfunded defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19, 84 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements Employee Benefits.
The agreement provides for one-time in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a retirement grants, financial aid, dental care, medical benefits, corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future sanatorium visits, annual financial support to pensioners, free benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to tickets for city buses, privilege tickets for shuttle buses and which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for funeral aid.
changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
MKM provides for part-time work for older employees.
There are ii P Payments for licences no long-term employee benefits provided in the United Kingdom.
In accordance with the terms of subsoil use contracts, provision is made for future licence payments when the Group has a present The future benefit that employees have earned is discounted to obligation to repay the costs of geological information provided determine the present value.
The discount rate is the yield at the for licensed deposits.
The amount payable is discounted to its balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds that have present value.
maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups benefit obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary.
iii O Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal The Group recognises actuarial gains and losses falling outside a or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an corridor of the greater of 10% of the benefit obligation or 10% of outflow of resources, for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
the assets, amortised over the expected average future working lifetime of employees in the arrangements.
The expense in relation o R Revenue to these long-term employee benefits is charged to the income Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to statement so as to match the cost of providing these benefits third parties during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value to the period of service of the employees.
of consideration receivable, and excludes any applicable sales tax.
Mining royalties are included within cost of sales.
ii S Share-based payments Certain employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of goods is settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting title and any insurance risk has passed to the customer and the conditions is determined by an external consultant and the fair value goods have been delivered as per the contractual delivery terms at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting or when any services have been provided.
period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually Almost all sales agreements for copper cathodes, copper rods and vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed zinc metal are provisionally priced i. e. the selling price is subject at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date at which point to final adjustment at the end of a quotation period, typically the the estimate is adjusted to reflect the current expectations.
No average price either for the month or the month following delivery adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even to the customer, based on the LME market price for the relevant if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
quotation period stipulated in the contract.
Such a provisional iii T Trust activities sale contains an embedded derivative which is required to be Assets held in trust or in a fiduciary capacity are not treated as assets separated from the host contract.
The host contract is the sale of of the Group and, accordingly, are not included in the consolidated commodity at the provisional invoice price, and the embedded financial statements.
Transactions entered into with these trust derivative is the forward contract for which the provisional sale is activities are expensed in the consolidated financial statements.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal sales are marked-to-market using forward prices, with iv S Social programmes adjustments both gains and losses being recorded in revenue in The Group is obliged to contribute towards social programmes for the consolidated income statement and in trade receivables in the the benefit of the local community at large.
The Groups contributions consolidated balance sheet.
towards these programmes are expensed to the income statement p F Finance income as incurred.
Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and n Provisions foreign exchange gains.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation calculated in accordance with the effective interest rate method.
legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable q F Finance costs that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount.
If the effect accumulation of interest on provisions and foreign exchange of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined losses.
All interest and other costs incurred in connection with by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate borrowings are expensed as incurred as part of finance costs.
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
r B Borrowing costs Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended i S Site restoration costs use or sale, are added to the costs of those assets, until such time Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
future costs of closure and restoration, and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation in the period in which they are incurred.
of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted where material and the unwinding of the discount is included www.
com 85 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued In determining estimated fair value, investments are valued at 3.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES quoted bid prices on the trade date.
When quoted prices on CONTINUED an active market are not available, fair value is determined by s IIncome tax reference to price quotations for similar instruments traded.
Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it The Group classifies investments depending upon the intent of relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case management at the time of the purchase.
Investments with fixed it is recognised in equity.
Excess profits tax is treated as income tax maturities and fixed or determinable payments that management and forms part of the income tax expense.
has both the positive intent, and the ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect Loans and receivables are loans and receivables created by of previous years.
the Group providing money to a debtor.
Loans and receivables comprise loans and advances other than purchased loans.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts Held-to-maturity investments and originated loans and receivables of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the are initially recognised in accordance with the policy stated above amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary and subsequently re-measured at amortised cost using the effective differences are not provided for: interest method.
Allowance for impairment is estimated on a case-by-case basis.
those arising on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the Assets held for trading are financial assets held for short-term time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor trading purposes, and are measured at fair value through profit taxable profit or loss: and or loss.
investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable and include investments that are held for sale, although there is that the temporary difference will not reverse in the no time frame in which management is required to sell them.
are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates date, in which case they are included within current assets.
These that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised assets are recorded at fair value with the unrealised movements in or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and tax laws that fair value being recognised directly in equity until disposal or sale, have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet at which time, those unrealised movements from prior periods are date.
Deferred excess profits tax is calculated with respect to recognised in profit or loss.
temporary differences in respect of assets allocated to contracts for subsoil use at the expected rate of excess profits tax to be Commodity futures are initially recognised at fair value.
Any paid under the contract.
gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement in the period in which A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is they occur.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit rate swaps to hedge risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and same taxation authority.
on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging t D Dividends instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
Dividends receivable are recognised The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives when the Groups right to receive payment is established.
that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred u F Financial instruments in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is i R Recognition recognised immediately in profit or loss, and is included in the The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities on its balance other operating income or other operating expenses line of sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred ii M Measurement from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of When financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, they the asset or liability.
are measured at fair value being the consideration given or received plus directly attributable transaction costs.
Any gain or loss at initial recognition is recognised in the income statement.
86 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the v B Business combinations hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the purchase method of terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
accounting is applied whereby the purchase consideration is Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in allocated to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately liabilities identifiable net assets on the basis of fair values at the recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer date of acquisition.
Those mineral reserves and resources that expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred are able to be reliably valued are recognised in the assessment in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
of fair values on acquisition.
iii D Derecognition The cost of the business combination is the aggregate of: a the fair A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control values at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or over the contractual rights that comprise that asset.
This occurs assumed, and equity instruments issued by the acquirer in exchange when the rights are realised, expire or are surrendered.
A financial for control of the acquiree: and b cost directly attributable to the liability is derecognised when it is extinguished.
Held-to-maturity instruments and originated loans and receivables Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost are derecognised on the date they are transferred by the Group.
of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
iv IImpairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is If the fair value attributable to the Groups share of the identifiable any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial net assets exceeds the fair value of the consideration, the Group assets is impaired.
A financial asset or group of financial assets is reassesses whether it has correctly identified and measured the deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence assets acquired and liabilities assumed and recognises any additional of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred assets or liabilities that are identified in that review.
If that excess after the initial recognition of the asset an incurred loss event remains after reassessment, the Group recognises the resulting and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash gain in the income statement on the acquisition date.
flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
For available for sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available for sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement and increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in equity.
com 87 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. BUSINESS ACQUISITION a Y Year ended 31 December 2008 Ekibastuz power plant and Maikuben West coal mine On 29 May 2008 the Group acquired 100% of the Ekibastuz coal-fired power plant and the Maikuben West coal mine in Kazakhstan.
The businesses were acquired for a total consideration of $1,264 million.
The consideration comprises an initial cash consideration paid on 29 May 2008 of $1,097 million, deferred consideration payments with a present value of $169 million, acquisition costs of $7 million less an amount received of $9 million from the seller on 1 December 2008 in relation to adjustments to the closing statement under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement.
The net cash outflow, net of cash acquired from the acquisition was $993 million.
At the acquisition date, the combined net identifiable assets and liabilities of the businesses, including fair value adjustments, were as follows: Carrying value Fair value Fair value at at acquisition adjustments at acquisition 1 $ million date acquisition date restated Assets 2 Intangible assets 6 5 1 2 Property, plant and equipment 131 858 989 2 Mining assets 1 45 46 Inventories 17 1 18 Trade and other receivables 26 8 34 Cash and cash equivalents 102 102 Liabilities 3 Deferred tax liability 12 267 279 Provisions 14 33 47 Borrowings 159 159 Trade and other payables 35 35 Net identifiable assets 63 607 670 Goodwill arising on acquisition 594 Total acquisition cost 1,264 1 Restated from the 2008 half-yearly accounts.
2 Fair value adjustments have been made to reflect initial estimates of the fair values of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and reserves and resources.
3 The increase in the deferred tax liability largely reflects the tax effect of the fair value adjustments.
The most significant fair value adjustment is in relation to property, plant and equipment.
The fair value of property, plant and equipment was determined by an external professionally qualified valuer using a combination of market values and depreciated replacement cost based on the existing capacity of the power plant whilst taking into account future tariff increases as derived from the Companys acquisition model.
Goodwill of $594 million has arisen from the acquisition of the businesses and will be tested at least annually for impairment.
This goodwill can be broken down into two elements: goodwill of $327 million representing the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, excluding deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
This goodwill has arisen as the fair values of the identifiable assets do not take into account the future capital expenditure programme of the businesses which should result in an increased capacity of the power plant from 2,250 MW to 4,000 MW.
A combination of the future capacity increase, additional tariff increases and the ability for the Group to benefit from these improvements are the main drivers behind the goodwill balance arising on this transaction: and goodwill of $267 million arising as a consequence of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments.
The deferred tax liability, which gives rise to the goodwill, has been calculated based on a corporate income tax rate of 30%, the prevailing tax rate at the date of acquisition.
Subsequent to the date of acquisition, in December 2008 the Government passed new tax legislation effective from 1 January 2009 which will lead to a phased reduction in the corporate income tax rate in Kazakhstan from 30% in 2008 to 15% in 2011.
Since these new rates were substantially enacted by 31 December 2008, the deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments has been recalculated as $141 million.
This results in a taxation credit in the income statement of $126 million, which has been included within special items in the calculation of Underlying Profit due to its non-recurring nature see note 13.
From the date of acquisition, the Ekibastuz power plant and the Maikuben West coal mine have contributed profit after tax of $129 million to the profit after tax of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008, which includes a one-off deferred taxation credit in the income statement of $126 million.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, the profit after tax of the Group would have been $1 million higher at $911 million and revenues would have been $108 million higher at $5,259 million.
88 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements b Y Year ended 31 December 2007 Eurasia Gold Inc. On 5 July 2007 the Group acquired 96.34% of the ordinary shares of Eurasia Gold Inc. Eurasia Gold subsequently renamed Kazakhmys Gold a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Since the offer was accepted by holders of more than 90% of the Eurasia Gold shares, Kazakhmys Gold Inc. an indirectly wholly owned subsidiary of Kazakhmys PLC exercised its right under the compulsory acquisition provisions of the Business Corporations Act British Columbia to acquire the outstanding Eurasia Gold shares not already owned by Kazakhmys Gold Inc. at the same price of CA$0.85 for each Eurasia Gold share.
On 12 September 2007, the Group completed the compulsory acquisition, thereby taking its interest in Eurasia Gold to 100%.
Eurasia Gold was purchased for a total consideration of $271 million in cash.
The fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired was $225 million and goodwill of $46 million was recognised as a consequence of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments.
Upon acquisition, the Group acquired cash of $12 million and borrowings of $6 million.
During 2008, the Group has impaired the mining assets and goodwill included in Kazakhmys Gold see note 7 b.
SEGMENT INFORMATION A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged either in providing products or services in a particular business sector business segment, or in providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment, which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
Segment information is presented in respect of the Groups primary basis of segmentation in business segments, which are based on the Groups management and internal reporting structures.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise corporate head office assets and liabilities, borrowings, income taxes payable, deferred taxes and dividends payable receivable.
The Groups principal operations are based in Kazakhstan, with MKM being based in Germany.
The Groups activities principally relate to: Kazakhmys Copper operations which involve the production and sale of: Copper cathodes, rod and copper metal in concentrate: Zinc metal and zinc metal in concentrate: Gold and silver: and Other by-product metals lead, rhenium, selenium, cadmium and sulphuric acid : German copper processing operation: Kazakhstan power generation operation: Central Asian gold production, exploration and development activity: Kazakhstan oil and gas exploration and development activity.
Segmental information is also provided in respect of revenues, by destination and by product.
Segmental information relating to employees is provided in note 8. a B Business segments In the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group operated the following five business segments: Kazakhmys Copper, MKM, Kazakhmys Power, Kazakhmys Gold and Kazakhmys Petroleum.
In the year ended 31 December 2007 the Group operated four business segments: Kazakhmys Copper, MKM, Kazakhmys Gold and Kazakhmys Petroleum.
Kazakhmys Copper The Kazakhmys Copper business, which involves the processing and sale of copper and other metals, is managed as one business segment.
The products are subject to the same risks and returns, exhibit similar long-term financial performance and are sold through the same distribution channels.
The Group processes substantially all the copper ore it produces and utilises most of the copper concentrate it processes.
The Group has a number of activities that exist solely to support the mining operations including power generation, coal mining and transportation.
These other activities generate less than 10% of total revenues both external and internal and the related assets are less than 10% of total assets.
The Kazakhmys Copper segment includes a UK company, Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, which consists of a trading function responsible for the purchases of exported products from the Kazakhmys Copper operations in Kazakhstan, application of an appropriate mark-up and then onward sale to third parties.
During 2007, the UK trading function was part of Kazakhmys PLC.
For the purposes of business segmental reporting, the UK trading function is regarded as a sales function on behalf of the Kazakhmys Copper business and consequently the assets and liabilities related to those trading operations, i. e. trade creditors and trade receivables, are included within the Kazakhmys Copper business segment.
MKM MKM operates in Germany, where it manufactures copper and copper alloy semi-finished products.
MKM faces different risks from the Groups other businesses and is therefore shown as a separate business segment.
com 89 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED Kazakhmys Power In May 2008, the Group acquired the Ekibastuz coal-fired power plant and the Maikuben West coal mine.
The principal activities of the Kazakhmys Power segment, representing the Ekibastuz and Maikuben West businesses, is the sale of electricity to external customers.
This segment does not include the power stations and coal mines which are part of the Kazakhmys Copper segment as the output from those power stations and coal mines is primarily used within the Kazakhmys Copper business, and the level of external sales is comparatively insignificant.
Kazakhmys Gold In July 2007 the Group acquired Eurasia Gold Inc. subsequently renamed Kazakhmys Gold.
The principal activities of Kazakhmys Gold are the mining and processing of gold ore into refined ore and exploration and development activity in the precious metal sector within the Central Asian region.
Kazakhmys Petroleum In April 2007 the Group acquired Dostan-Temir LLP subsequently renamed Kazakhmys Petroleum, a company which holds a licence to conduct oil and gas exploration and development activity in the East Akzhar Exploration Block in western Kazakhstan.
i IIncome statement information Year ended 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Sales to external customers 3,227 1,719 156 49 5,151 Gross profit 1,639 36 62 17 1,754 Operating costs 304 60 55 7 1 31 458 Impairment losses 221 17 2 158 2 400 Segmental operating results 1,114 41 5 148 3 31 896 1 Share of profits from associate 255 Profit before finance items and taxation 1,151 Net finance costs and income tax expense 241 Profit for the year 910 1 Share of profits from associate is net of tax.
Year ended 31 December 2007 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate 1 $ million Copper MKM Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Sales to external customers 3,588 1,643 25 5,256 Gross profit 2,359 61 4 2,424 Operating costs income 354 50 3 1 62 346 Impairment losses 28 1 1 30 Segment results 1,977 10 1 2 62 2,048 Net finance costs and income tax expense 621 Profit for the year 1,427 1 Includes dividend received of $94 million from ENRC PLC.
90 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements ii B Balance sheet information At 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Assets Tangible and intangible assets 2,277 150 1,631 137 520 12 4,727 Non-current investments 4 1 5 Intragroup investments 6,249 6,249 1 Operating assets 888 233 27 22 1 36 1,207 Current investments 32 32 Cash and cash equivalents 330 26 14 5 165 540 Segment assets 3,531 384 1,684 173 526 6,462 12,760 Income taxes reclaimable 126 Investment in associate 4,045 Elimination 6,251 Total assets 10,680 Liabilities Employee benefits and provisions 122 7 214 2 26 371 2 Operating liabilities 240 28 24 2 3 15 312 Segment liabilities 362 35 238 4 29 15 683 Deferred tax liability 266 Borrowings 2,200 Income taxes payable 36 Elimination 2 Total liabilities 3,183 1 Operating assets include inventories, prepayments and other current assets and trade and other receivables.
2 Operating liabilities include trade and other payables, derivative financial instruments and dividends payable by subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2007 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Assets Tangible and intangible assets 2,125 172 295 482 11 3,085 Non-current investments 10 2 2,401 2,413 Intragroup investments 1,980 1,980 1 Operating assets 1,039 386 17 1 149 1,592 Current investments 57 57 Cash and cash equivalents 217 7 14 21 180 439 Segment assets 3,448 567 326 504 4,721 9,566 Elimination 2,212 Total assets 7,354 Liabilities Employee benefits and provisions 112 9 2 26 149 2 Operating liabilities 304 41 2 1 110 458 Segment liabilities 416 50 4 27 110 607 Deferred tax liability 283 Borrowings 198 Income taxes payable 65 Elimination 232 Total liabilities 921 1 Operating assets include inventories, prepayments and other current assets and trade and other receivables.
2 Operating liabilities include trade and other payables and dividends payable by subsidiaries.
com 91 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED 1 iii E Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA excluding special items by business segments Year ended 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Operating profit loss 1,114 41 5 148 3 31 896 Special items: Add: impairment of property, plant and equipment 118 2 120 Add: impairment of goodwill 46 46 Add: impairment of mining assets 14 112 126 Add: provisions against inventory 73 15 88 Add: loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 1 2 Profit loss before finance items and taxation excluding special items 1,320 26 6 10 1 31 1,278 Add: depreciation and depletion 274 25 36 9 2 346 Add: amortisation 3 3 Segment EBITDA excluding special items 1,597 1 42 19 1 29 1,627 Share of EBITDA of associate 429 429 Group EBITDA excluding special items 1,597 1 42 19 1 400 2,056 1 EBITDA excluding special items is defined as profit before interest, taxation, depreciation, depletion and amortisation, as adjusted for special items.
Special items are those items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading performance of the business.
Year ended 31 December 2007 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate 2 $ million Copper MKM Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Operating profit loss 1,977 10 1 2 62 2,048 Special items: Add: impairment of property, plant and equipment 25 1 26 Less: gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 2 Profit loss before finance items and taxation excluding special items 2,000 10 1 1 62 2,072 Add: depreciation and depletion 231 24 5 1 261 Add: amortisation 3 3 Group EBITDA excluding special items 2,234 34 6 1 63 2,336 1 EBITDA excluding special items is defined as profit before interest, taxation, depreciation, depletion and amortisation, as adjusted for special items.
2 Includes dividend received of $94 million from ENRC PLC.
iv N Net liquid funds debt by business segments At 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Cash and cash equivalents 330 26 14 5 165 540 Current investments 32 32 1 Borrowings 11 121 171 4 3,687 3,994 2 Inter-segment borrowings 11 171 4 1,608 1,794 Net liquid funds debt 362 121 26 14 5 1,914 1,628 1 Borrowings of Corporate unallocated are presented net of capitalised arrangement fees of $21 million.
2 Borrowings of Corporate unallocated include amounts borrowed from the Kazakhmys Copper segment and amounts lent to the Kazakhmys Power and Kazakhmys Gold segments.
At 31 December 2007 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Cash and cash equivalents 217 7 14 21 180 439 Current investments 57 57 Borrowings 196 2 1,265 1,463 1 Inter-segment borrowings 1,265 1,265 Net liquid funds debt 274 189 12 21 180 298 1 Borrowings of Corporate unallocated include amounts borrowed from the Kazakhmys Copper segment.
92 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements v C Capital expenditure, depreciation and impairment losses by business segments Year ended 31 December 2008 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Power Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Property, plant and equipment 559 10 38 8 42 657 Mining assets 24 5 29 Intangible assets 9 1 1 4 15 Capital expenditure 592 11 39 13 42 4 701 Depreciation and depletion 274 25 36 9 2 346 Amortisation 3 3 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 277 25 36 9 2 349 Impairment losses 221 17 2 158 2 400 Year ended 31 December 2007 Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporate $ million Copper MKM Gold Petroleum unallocated Total Property, plant and equipment 432 11 2 7 3 455 Mining assets 28 2 30 Intangible assets 10 4 476 4 494 Capital expenditure 470 11 8 483 7 979 Depreciation and depletion 231 23 6 1 261 Amortisation 3 3 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 234 23 6 1 264 Impairment losses 28 1 1 30 b G Geographical segments i IIncome statement information Year ended 31 December 2008 1 $ million Central Asia Germany UK Netherlands Total 2 Revenues Segment sales 3,366 1,719 2,923 8,008 Inter-segment sales 2,857 2,857 Sales to external customers 509 1,719 2,923 5,151 Gross profit 1,652 36 66 1,754 Operating costs income 478 60 78 2 458 Impairment losses 383 17 400 Segmental operating results 791 41 144 2 896 3 Share of profits from associate 255 Profit before finance items and taxation 1,151 Net finance costs and income tax expense 241 Profit for the year 910 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
2 Revenues are analysed by origin of sale.
Refer to note 5 d where revenue is analysed by location of customer.
3 Share of profits from associate is net of tax.
Year ended 31 December 2007 1 2 $ million Central Asia Germany UK Netherlands Total 3 Revenues Segment sales 3,523 1,643 3,196 8,362 Inter-segment sales 3,106 3,106 Sales to external customers 417 1,643 3,196 5,256 Gross profit 2,279 61 84 2,424 Operating costs income 334 50 56 94 346 Impairment losses 29 1 30 Profit before finance items and taxation 1,916 10 28 94 2,048 Net finance costs and income tax expense 621 Profit for the year 1,427 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
3 Revenues are analysed by origin of sale.
com 93 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED ii B Balance sheet information Year ended 31 December 2008 1 $ million Central Asia Germany UK Netherlands Total Assets Tangible and intangible assets 4,554 150 5 18 4,727 Non-current investments 4 1 8,068 2,014 10,087 2 Operating assets 1,066 233 135 1,434 Current investments 32 32 Cash and cash equivalents 258 240 42 540 Segment assets 5,914 384 8,448 2,074 16,820 Income tax reclaimable 126 Investment in associate 4,045 Elimination 10,311 Total assets 10,680 Liabilities Employee benefits and provisions 364 7 371 3 Operating liabilities 221 28 290 539 Segment liabilities 585 35 290 910 Unallocated liabilities 302 Borrowings 2,200 Elimination 229 Total liabilities 3,183 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
2 Operating assets include inventories, prepayments and other current assets and trade and other receivables.
3 Operating liabilities include trade and other payables, derivative financial instruments and dividends payable by subsidiaries.
Year ended 31 December 2007 1 $ million Central Asia Germany UK Netherlands Total Assets Tangible and intangible assets 2,902 172 7 4 3,085 Non-current investments 10 2 2,819 3,176 6,007 2 Operating assets 1,063 386 274 1,723 Current investments 57 57 Cash and cash equivalents 204 7 134 94 439 Segment assets 4,236 567 3,234 3,274 11,311 Elimination 3,957 Total assets 7,354 Liabilities Employee benefits and provisions 140 9 149 3 Operating liabilities 301 41 153 90 585 Segment liabilities 441 50 153 90 734 Unallocated liabilities 348 Borrowings 198 Elimination 359 Total liabilities 921 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
3 Operating liabilities include trade and other payables and dividends payable by subsidiaries.
iii N Net liquid funds debt by geographical segments Year ended 31 December 2008 1 $ million Central Asia Germany UK Netherlands Total Cash and cash equivalents 258 240 42 540 Current investments 32 32 Borrowings 287 121 3,608 4,016 Inter-segment borrowings 287 1,529 1,816 Net liquid funds debt 290 121 1,839 42 1,628 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
94 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2007 1 $ million Central Asia Germany UK Netherlands Total Cash and cash equivalents 204 7 134 94 439 Current investments 57 57 Borrowings 2 196 1,265 1,463 Inter-segment borrowings 1,265 1,265 Net liquid funds debt 259 189 134 94 298 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
iv C Capital expenditure, depreciation and impairment losses by geographical segments Year ended 31 December 2008 1 $ million Central Asia Germany UK Netherlands Total Property, plant and equipment 647 10 657 Mining assets 29 29 Intangible assets 3 1 11 15 Capital expenditure 679 11 11 701 Depreciation and depletion 319 25 2 346 Amortisation 3 3 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 322 25 2 349 Impairment losses 383 17 400 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
Year ended 31 December 2007 1 $ million Central Asia Germany UK Netherlands Total Property, plant and equipment 441 11 3 455 Mining assets 30 30 Intangible assets 490 4 494 Capital expenditure 961 11 3 4 979 Depreciation and depletion 237 23 1 261 Amortisation 3 3 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 240 23 1 264 Impairment losses 29 1 30 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
com 95 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED c S Segmental information in respect of revenues Revenues by product are as follows: $ million 2008 2007 Kazakhmys Copper Copper cathodes 2,272 2,516 Copper rods 314 251 Silver in granules 251 256 Gold bullion 109 80 Zinc metal 88 124 Zinc metal in concentrate 61 201 Other by-products 70 86 Other revenue 62 74 3,227 3,588 MKM Wire 783 763 Sheet steel and steel strips 571 509 Tubes and bars 337 319 Metal trade 28 52 1,719 1,643 Kazakhmys Power Electricity generation 123 Coal 33 156 Kazakhmys Gold Gold dor 49 25 49 25 Total revenues 5,151 5,256 d R Revenues by destination Year ended 31 December 2008 $ million Europe China Kazakhstan Other Total Sales to third parties 3,401 1,038 345 367 5,151 Year ended 31 December 2007 $ million Europe ChinaKazakhstan Other Total Sales to third parties 3,138 1,460 150 508 5,256 6.
COST OF SALES, SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION EXPENSES, ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND OPERATING INCOME EXPENSES The following tables analyse the major components of cost of sales, selling and distribution expenses, administrative expenses and operating income expenses: a C Cost of sales $ million 2008 2007 Raw materials 2,290 2,118 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 384 275 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 313 240 Production overheads 254 164 Utilities 83 67 Royalties and other taxes 32 27 Change in work in progress and finished goods 41 59 3,397 2,832 b S Selling and distribution expenses $ million 2008 2007 Transportation expenses 80 55 Port charges 25 2 Electricity dispatch 13 Raw materials 8 6 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 8 7 Other 18 11 152 81 96 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements c A Administrative expenses $ million 2008 2007 Employee salaries and payroll taxes 153 123 Social responsibility costs 71 38 Levies and charges 44 33 Legal and professional 32 45 Depreciation and amortisation 28 24 Medical and social support 22 15 Utilities 20 5 Personal injury claims 19 13 Supplies 16 10 Business travel 14 12 Transportation 9 8 Communication 6 4 Social contributions 3 6 Bank fees 3 3 Other 22 21 462 360 d O Other operating income $ million 2008 2007 Gain on forward copper hedging contracts 143 Supplies 14 13 Sanatorium, medical and canteen 11 2 Gain on disposal of securities 5 1 Utilities 4 2 Dividend income from available for sale investments 94 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Other 28 22 205 136 e O Other operating expenses $ million 2008 2007 Supplies 15 13 Sanatorium, medical and canteen 12 8 Utilities 4 4 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 Other 16 16 49 41 7.
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES $ million 2008 2007 Impairment of goodwill note 7 b 46 Impairment of other intangible assets 2 Impairment of property, plant and equipment: Zinc smelter note 7a 75 Other note 7 c 45 26 Impairment of mining assets: Kazakhmys Gold note 7 b 112 Other note 7 c 14 Provisions against inventories note 7 d 88 Provisions against trade and other receivables 14 2 Provisions against prepayments and other current assets 4 2 400 30 www.
com 97 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
IMPAIRMENT LOSSES CONTINUED a Z Zinc smelter Included within impairment of property, plant and equipment is an impairment charge of $75 million relating to the Balkhash zinc smelter, which is included within the Kazakhmys Copper segment, and is part of this segments zinc cash generating unit.
An impairment charge has been recognised following managements decision to cease production at the zinc smelter in light of adverse changes in assumptions about future zinc prices and operating costs.
The carrying value of the zinc smelter as at 31 December 2008 was $75 million, and in light of managements decision to cease production, the entire carrying value has been impaired.
b K Kazakhmys Gold Impairment of mining assets includes an amount of $112 million relating to the impairment of Kazakhmys Gold.
An impairment charge has been recognised following a general change in the long-term strategy of the division, with the outlook for existing mines and development projects being less attractive than originally anticipated at the time of the acquisition.
The value in use was assessed by reference to cash flow forecasts discounted at a pre-tax rate of 10%.
Furthermore, goodwill of $46 million recognised on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Gold as a result of the requirement to provide deferred tax on the acquisition fair value adjustments has also been written off during the year.
See note 15 a for details on the assumptions used in the Kazakhmys Gold impairment test.
c K Kazakhmys Copper mining assets and property, plant and equipment An impairment charge has been recognised within the Kazakhmys Copper segment on the property, plant and equipment and mining assets associated with the closure of certain mines which are loss making in a period of sustained commodity price weakness and are unlikely, in managements best estimate, to reopen in the foreseeable future.
d K Kazakhmys Copper and MKM inventories Impairment of inventories include an amount of $73 million and $15 million in respect of Kazakhmys Copper and MKM, respectively.
For Kazakhmys Copper, the impairment primarily relates to the impairment of stockpiled ore which is not going to be processed in the foreseeable future as its processing is uneconomic at current commodity price levels.
Within MKM, a provision has been recognised to record inventory at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
This primarily relates to finished goods held in stock at the end of the year which have been written down reflecting the fall in copper price in December.
EMPLOYEE INFORMATION $ million 2008 2007 Wages and salaries 522 386 Social security costs 38 29 Post-employment benefits 3 4 563 419 Other non-monetary employee benefits including sanatorium visits, medical services, nourishment and treatment expenses are also provided by Kazakhmys LLC, and are included in the income statement in the expense line relating to the nature of the cost.
98 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements The average weekly number of employees during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 Kazakhmys Copper Mining 14,838 14,701 Concentration 5,378 5,176 Smelting 5,775 6,027 Transport 4,769 5,484 Maintenance and services 20,574 20,235 Construction 3,199 3,476 Administration, social sphere and other 8,122 7,592 62,655 62,691 MKM Production 677 662 Maintenance and services 219 219 Administration and other 156 164 1,052 1,045 Kazakhmys Power Production 597 Maintenance and services 983 Administration and other 386 1,966 Kazakhmys Gold Production 1,122 1,436 Administration and other 171 131 1,293 1,567 Kazakhmys Petroleum Production 40 23 Administration and other 21 13 61 36 Head office Company Corporate 128 97 128 97 Total employees 67,155 65,436 Analysed as 1 Central Asia 66,049 64,342 Germany 1,052 1,045 UK 46 42 Netherlands 2 1 China 6 6 67,155 65,436 1 Includes Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL In accordance with IAS 24 Related party disclosures, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
Key management personnel of the Group are deemed to be the Directors of the Company, the Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Chief Executive Officer of Kazakhmys LLC.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors comprises salaries, annual bonuses, share awards and benefits-in-kind and amounted to $8 million during the year 2007: $10 million.
Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and those specified for audit by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are included in the Directors Remuneration Report and form part of these consolidated financial statements.
com 99 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
AUDITORS REMUNERATION The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the year ended 31 December 2008 was $5.0 million 2007: $3.9 million, made up as follows: $ million 2008 2007 Ernst & Young LLP Audit 2.9 2.2 Assurance-related services 0.4 0.4 Transaction advisory services 1.7 1.3 Total remuneration 5.0 3.9 Group For the year ended 31 December 2008, Ernst & Young LLP and its associates rendered assurance-related services relating to the review of the half-yearly report amounting to $0.4 million 2007: $0.3 million and review of the special interim accounts for the Company amounting to $nil 2007: $0.1 million.
Ernst & Young LLP and its associates also provided transaction advisory services of $1.7 million 2007: $1.3 million principally relating to provision of due diligence services in respect of the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power and the acquisition of additional shares in ENRC PLC arising from the share exchange with the Government in July 2008.
Company The auditors remuneration attributable to the Company was $3.2 million 2007: $2.7 million, which related to $1.2 million for audit services 2007: $1.1 million, $0.3 million for assurance-related services 2007: $0.3 million and $1.7 million for transaction advisory services 2007: $1.3 million.
FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS $ million 2008 2007 Finance income Interest income 23 94 Foreign exchange gains 115 166 Total finance income 138 260 Finance costs Interest expense 66 14 Interest on employee obligations 4 3 Unwinding of discount on provisions 5 8 Finance costs before foreign exchange losses 75 25 Foreign exchange losses 128 257 Total finance costs 203 282 12.
INCOME TAX a IIncome statement Major components of income tax expense for the years presented are: $ million 2008 2007 Current income tax Corporate income tax current period UK 5 18 Corporate income tax current period overseas 446 696 Corporate income tax prior periods 9 28 Excess profits tax current period 27 52 Excess profits tax prior periods 9 469 729 Deferred income tax Corporate income tax current period 281 115 Corporate income tax prior periods 13 9 Excess profits tax current period 1 6 293 130 Income tax expense 176 599 100 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements A reconciliation of the income tax expense applicable to the accounting profit before tax at the statutory income tax rate to the income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate is as follows: $ million 2008 2007 Profit before taxation 1,086 2,026 1 At statutory income tax rate of 28.5% 2007: 30.0% 310 608 Tax effect of share of profits from associate 73 Overprovided in previous years deferred income tax 13 9 Overprovided in previous years current income tax 9 28 Unrecognised use of previously unrecognised tax losses 9 31 Effect of domestic tax rates applicable to individual Group entities 16 1 Release of deferred tax liability due to change in future tax rates 146 11 Unremitted overseas earnings 41 Non-deductible expenses non-taxable income : Non-taxable income on zinc plant 6 26 Non-deductible expenses 19 60 Excess profits tax 28 37 At effective income tax rate of 16.2% 2007: 29.6% 176 599 1 The UK statutory income tax rate for January to March 2008 was 30% and for April to December 2008 was 28%, giving a weighted average full-year rate of 28.5% for 2008.
Corporate income tax is calculated at 28.5% 2007: 30.0% of the assessable profit for the period for the Company and its UK subsidiaries and 30.0% for the operating subsidiaries in Kazakhstan.
The MKM tax rate is calculated at 28.5% 2007: 37.3% and relates to German corporate income tax and trade tax.
Excess profits tax is levied on profitable subsoil contracts where the cumulative internal rate of return for the current year exceeds 20% in a given period.
The effective rate for excess profits tax for those subsoil contracts liable to this tax is 19% 2007: 15%.
The effective tax rate is lower than the statutory rate due to the taxation credit in respect of deferred income tax see below, and the impact of equity accounting for the associate.
The Groups interest in the earnings of ENRC is included, net of tax, in the consolidated income statement below the Groups operating profit in arriving at profit before taxation, thereby reducing the effective tax rate.
Excluding the impact of these deferred tax adjustments and the impact of equity accounting, the Groups effective income tax rate for the year would be 31.7%.
The income tax expense for the year includes a credit of $178 million in respect of deferred income tax.
This credit arises due to the impairment of the Kazakhmys Gold business and the enactment of new tax legislation within Kazakhstan in December 2008, which is effective from 1 January 2009, that leads to a phased reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 30% in 2008 to 15% in 2011.
This credit is primarily made up of the following: on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Gold in July 2007, a deferred tax liability of $46 million was recognised arising from the requirement to provide deferred tax on the acquisition fair value adjustments, with a corresponding entry to goodwill.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition and a proportion of the mining assets of the Kazakhmys Gold business have been impaired during the year and this results in a taxation credit in the income statement of $32 million: as described in note 4, on completion of the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power in May 2008, a deferred tax liability of $267 million was recognised arising from the requirement to provide deferred tax on the acquisition fair value adjustments, with a corresponding entry to goodwill.
The deferred tax liability was calculated based on a corporate income tax rate of 30%, the prevailing tax rate at the date of acquisition.
Since the rates included within the new Kazakh tax legislation, effective from 1 January 2009, were substantially enacted by 31 December 2008, the deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments has been recalculated as $141 million resulting in a taxation credit in the income statement of $126 million: and the non-acquisition related deferred tax liabilities within the Groups Kazakh businesses have been recalculated taking into account the lower corporate income tax rates resulting from the new Kazakh tax legislation, effective from 1 January 2009.
This calculation gives rise to a $20 million taxation credit in the income statement.
Future tax charges are affected by the mix of profits and tax rates in the various tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
As stated above, with the enactment of new tax legislation in Kazakhstan in December 2008, which is effective from 1 January 2009, there will be a phased reduction in the corporate income tax rate from 30% in 2008 to 15% in 2011.
This reduction in corporate income tax rates will have the effect of significantly lowering the Groups overall future effective tax rate below the current UK statutory corporate income tax rate of 28%.
com 101 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
INCOME TAX CONTINUED b R Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities The amounts of deferred taxation assets liabilities provided in the financial statements are as follows: $ million 2008 2007 Intangible assets 6 24 Property, plant and equipment 201 180 Mining assets 11 35 Inventories 12 20 Trade and other receivables 1 10 Provisions 16 27 Taxes payable 1 2 Tax losses 4 5 Unremitted overseas earnings 80 69 266 284 Deferred excess profits tax property, plant and equipment 8 Deferred excess profits tax taxes paid and accrued 9 1 Deferred tax liability, net 266 283 The deferred tax assets shown in the table above arise within Kazakhmys LLC and are offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same entity and in the same jurisdiction.
The movement in the net deferred tax liability in the financial statements is as follows: $ million 2008 2007 As at 1 January 283 348 Business acquisition 279 47 Credited charged to the income statement 293 130 Net exchange adjustment 3 18 As at 31 December 266 283 c U Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets not recognised in the accounts are as follows: $ million 2008 2007 Kazakhstan tax losses Total losses carried forward 10 Germany tax losses Corporate income tax 31 33 Trade tax 19 21 Total losses carried forward 50 54 UK Excess foreign tax credits 63 55 Total 123 109 Details of the Groups tax losses arising in the jurisdictions in which it operates are as follows: i K Kazakhstan At 31 December 2008, Kazakhmys LLC has corporate income tax losses on certain mines that can be carried forward and used against future taxable profits arising from those mines.
Under Kazakhstan tax legislation, tax losses from loss making mines may not be offset against the taxable profits of profitable mines.
Kazakhmys LLC expects that certain mines will be in a tax loss making position for the foreseeable future and will have no taxable profits against which the losses can be offset.
Therefore, no deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the tax losses associated with these mines.
ii G Germany MKM has at 31 December 2008 corporate income tax losses that can be carried forward and used against future taxable profits, subject to restrictions set out under German tax legislation.
There is no time restriction over the utilisation of tax losses.
Due to the past history of tax losses, there is insufficient certainty that a taxable profit will arise against which the losses can be offset.
For these reasons, no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
iii U United Kingdom The payment of the dividends from Kazakhmys LLC to the Company has created excess foreign tax credits of $63 million 2007: $55 million which have arisen due to the higher effective tax rate in Kazakhstan compared to the UK as well as withholding taxes payable on dividends remitted from Kazakhstan to the UK.
These excess foreign tax credits do not expire.
During 2008, the Company utilised excess foreign tax credits of $38 million 2007: $nil in respect of dividends received from ENRC PLC.
102 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements d U Unrecognised deferred tax liability The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of the distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The gross temporary differences in respect of the undistributed reserves of the Groups subsidiaries, as shown in their statutory accounts prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, are as follows: $ million 2008 2007 Undistributed reserves of subsidiaries 3,033 2,636 13.
EARNINGS PER SHARE a B Basic and diluted EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each outstanding during the year.
The Company has no dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the EPS computations: $ million 2008 2007 Net profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 909 1,416 Number 2008 2007 Number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each for EPS calculation 490,289,985 466,073,506 EPS basic and diluted $ 1.85 3.04 The weighted average number of shares has increased due to the issue of 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,604,884 shares in ENRC PLC on 24 July 2008, offset by the completion of the share buy-back programme in January 2008. b E EPS based on Underlying Profit The Groups Underlying Profit is the profit for the year after adding back items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which do not impact the underlying trading performance of the business and their resultant tax and minority interest effects, as shown in the table below.
EPS based on Underlying Profit is calculated by dividing Underlying Profit by the number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each outstanding during the year.
The Directors believe EPS based on Underlying Profit provides a more consistent measure for comparing the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The following shows the reconciliation of Underlying Profit from the reported profit and the share data used in the computations for EPS based on Underlying Profit: $ million 2008 2007 Net profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 909 1,416 Special items: Impairment of goodwill note 7 b 46 Impairment of property, plant and equipment: Zinc smelter note 7 a 75 Other note 7 c 45 26 Impairment of mining assets: Kazakhmys Gold note 7 b 112 Other note 7 c 14 Provisions against inventories note 7 d 88 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 2 Release of deferred tax liabilities: Group restructuring 31 Impairment of Kazakhmys Gold note 12 a 32 Change in tax rates on Kazakhmys Power fair value adjustments note 12 a 126 Change in tax rates on non acquisition-related deferred tax liabilities in Kazakhstan note 12 a 20 Minority interest effect of non-recurring items 1 Underlying Profit 1,112 1,409 Number 2008 2007 Weighted average number of ordinary shares of 20 pence each for EPS based on Underlying Profit calculation 490,289,985 466,073,506 EPS based on Underlying Profit basic and diluted $ 2.27 3.02 www.
com 103 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
DIVIDENDS PAID AND PROPOSED a D Dividend paid The dividends paid during the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007 are as follows: Per share Amount US cents $ million Year ended 31 December 2008 Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2007 27.4 125 Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2008 14.0 75 41.4 200 Year ended 31 December 2007 Final dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2006 25.7 120 Interim dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2007 13.6 64 Special dividend in respect of year ended 31 December 2007 50.0 235 89.3 419 i Y Year ended 31 December 2008 On 8 May 2008 the Company paid the final dividend of $125 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 to shareholders on the register as at 4 April 2008.
This final dividend was sourced by way of payment of an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 by Kazakhmys LLC.
On 31 October 2008, the Company paid an interim dividend of $75 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 to shareholders on the register as at 3 October 2008.
This interim dividend was largely sourced by way of payment of the final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 by Kazakhmys LLC.
ii Y Year ended 31 December 2007 On 14 May 2007, the Company paid the final dividend of $120 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 to shareholders on the register as at 13 April 2007.
This final dividend was sourced by way of payment of the interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 by Kazakhmys LLC.
On 5 October 2007, the Company paid interim and special dividends of $299 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 to shareholders on the register as at 14 September 2007.
These dividends were sourced by way of payment of the final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 and an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 by Kazakhmys LLC.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS $ million Goodwill Licences Other Total Cost At 1 January 2007 28 8 36 Business acquisition 46 46 Additions 486 8 494 Net exchange adjustment 2 2 At 31 December 2007 46 516 16 578 Business acquisition 594 1 595 Additions 7 8 15 Goodwill impairment 46 46 Net exchange adjustment 1 1 At 31 December 2008 594 523 24 1,141 Amortisation At 1 January 2007 4 3 7 Amortisation charge 2 1 3 At 31 December 2007 6 4 10 Amortisation charge 2 1 3 Impairment 2 2 At 31 December 2008 8 7 15 Net book value At 31 December 2008 594 515 17 1,126 At 31 December 2007 46 510 12 568 During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Group acquired licences totalling $7 million 2007: $486 million.
Included within the amount for 2007 is $450 million in relation to the purchase of Kazakhmys Petroleum and the related four year oil and gas exploration licence, which was treated as an asset acquisition.
Of the $7 million of additions in 2008, $3 million 2007: $35 million was capitalised by the Group in respect of contractual reimbursements to the Government for geological information and social commitments.
These latter amounts are non-cash items and are recorded within provisions for payments of licences.
The amortisation charge for the year is allocated to production expenses $2 million 2007: $2 million and administrative expenses $1 million 2007: $1 million as appropriate.
104 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements Impairment testing Goodwill The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis and when there are indicators of impairment.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit to which goodwill is allocated to, is compared to its recoverable amount.
Goodwill of $46 million arose on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Gold in 2007 see note 4 b and $594 million on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power in 2008 see note 4 a. a K Kazakhmys Gold The $46 million of goodwill relating to Kazakhmys Gold arose as a consequence of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments, and was allocated to Kazakhmys Golds four cash generating units as follows: i Kazakhstan operating mines $6 million, ii Mizek sulphide development project Kazakhstan $14 million, iii Bozymchak development project Kyrgyzstan $20 million, and iv Akjilga development project Tajikistan $6 million.
During the year, the Group has undertaken an impairment review of the Kazakhmys Gold segment, and the goodwill of $46 million arising on the acquisition has been impaired in full in addition to mining assets of $112 million following a general change in the long-term strategy of the division, with the outlook for existing mines and development projects being less attractive than originally anticipated at the time of the acquisition see note 7 b.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a combination of value in use and fair value less costs to sell calculations and is based on the cash flows expected to be generated from existing operations and development projects.
Cash flows are projected for periods up to the date that mining and refining is expected to cease based on managements current expectations.
For current operations, the completion dates are based on recent assessments of the reserves and resources available and annual ore extraction rates, and are expected to cease by the end of 2011.
For the development projects, the commencement dates for mining between 2011 and 2014 reflect managements expectations of the life of mine given current financing constraints, the time required to complete technical studies and to develop infrastructure and facilities at the mines for production to commence.
Mining will cease at the development projects at dates between 2016 and 2027 depending on the project, and cash flows have been forecast to these dates.
The key assumptions used in the recoverable amount calculations are: recoverable amount of reserves and resources: commodity prices: discount rates: timing of capital expenditure: inflation: and exchange rates.
Economically recoverable reserves and resources are based on managements expectations based on the availability of reserves at mine sites, technical studies and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by in-house and third party specialists.
Long-term commodity prices are based on external market consensus forecasts.
Specific prices are determined from information available in the market after considering the nature of the commodity produced and long-term market expectations.
The long-term gold and silver prices used in the impairment test, based on market consensus, were $750 oz and $11.50 oz, respectively.
The discount rate used in the recoverable amount calculations represents the pre-tax rate that reflects the Groups current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash generating unit.
Management have estimated the timing of capital expenditure on the development projects based on the Groups current and future financing plans and the results of technical studies completed to date.
Long-term inflation rates for the countries that the operating mines and development projects are located in have been used in the calculations.
These are based on information available in the market and country specific research.
Long-term inflation rates used for Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan in the impairment test were 4.9%, 5.9% and 9.7%, respectively.
In assessing the fair value less costs to sell, another key assumption is foreign exchange rates.
These are based on external market consensus forecasts, and specific rates are determined from information available in the market after considering long-term market expectations and the countries in which the cash generating unit operates.
The range of KZT $ exchange rates used in the impairment test is between KZT121 $1 and KZT150 $1.
b K Kazakhmys Power Management has performed an impairment test of the goodwill arising from the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power at the year end as required by IAS 36 Impairment of assets using a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Goodwill of $594 million arose on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power and is allocated to the divisions two cash generating units as follows: i Ekibastuz power plant $573 million, and ii Maikuben West coal mine $21 million.
com 105 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED The acquisition goodwill can be broken down into two elements: goodwill of $327 million representing the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, excluding deferred tax on the fair value adjustments.
The key assumptions used in the impairment test are: electricity generation volumes: tariff prices: discount rates: timing of capital expenditure: and inflation and exchange rates.
Electricity generation volumes are based on managements expectations based on supply and demand dynamics within Kazakhstan and the timing of capital expenditure required to increase the capacity of the power station.
Tariff prices are based on managements expectations with reference to commentary given by the Government with regards to setting tariff prices in the future and increase from $0.020 KWh in 2008 to 0.030 KWh in 2012.
The Department of Energy has stated that they expect tariff prices to reach $0.035 KWh by 2010.
However, for the purposes of the impairment test, a more conservative approach has been adopted with tariff prices not expected to exceed this level until 2014.
Tariff prices are assumed to increase at the long-term inflation rate for all years after 2012.
The discount rate used in the recoverable amount calculations represents the pre-tax rate that reflects the Groups current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the two cash generating units.
The discount rates used in the impairment test for the Ekibastuz power plant and Maikuben West coal mine were 12.4% and 15.8%, respectively.
Management have estimated the timing of capital expenditure based on the Groups current and future financing plans and the results of technical studies completed at the time of acquisition.
Long-term inflation and exchange rates for Kazakhstan have been used in the calculations.
A long-term inflation rate of 4.9% for Kazakhstan has been used in the impairment test.
The range of KZT $ exchange rates used is between KZT121 $1 and KZT150 $1.
Based on the results of the impairment test, the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power is not impaired.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions If the values of the key assumptions were to move by the following amounts, then fair value less costs to sell would equal the carrying value of each cash generating unit.
All changes are assumed to happen in isolation: Ekibastuz power plant cash generating unit: if electricity sales volumes were to decrease by 3.2% for each year, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount: if the rate of growth in tariff prices was less than forecast such that tariff prices grew at a rate of 3.1% less than that assumed for each year, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount: if the discount rate increased from 12.4% to 13.5%, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount.
Maikuben West coal mine cash generating unit: if coal sales volumes were to decrease by 1.3% for each year, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount: if the rate of growth in coal prices was less than forecast such that coal prices grew at a rate of 1.2% less than that assumed for each year, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount: if the discount rate increased from 15.8% to 16.3%, then the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount.
106 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land and Plant and Construction $ million buildings equipment Other in progress Total Cost At 1 January 2007 896 1,266 250 309 2,721 Business acquisition 4 3 2 9 Additions 15 64 42 334 455 Transfers 19 21 40 Reclassifications 47 47 Disposals 5 6 2 13 Net exchange adjustment 62 75 18 21 176 At 31 December 2007 991 1,470 263 624 3,348 Business acquisition 642 323 1 23 989 Additions 40 224 96 294 654 Capitalised depreciation 3 3 Transfers 274 126 6 406 Reclassifications 1 3 2 Disposals 9 31 4 12 56 Net exchange adjustment 8 14 3 3 28 At 31 December 2008 1,929 2,101 357 523 4,910 Depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2007 270 527 109 906 Depreciation charge 53 154 22 229 Reclassifications 41 41 Disposals 2 4 1 7 Impairment 7 7 2 10 26 Net exchange adjustment 19 37 9 65 At 31 December 2007 347 762 100 10 1,219 Depreciation charge 68 193 31 292 Reclassifications 1 1 Disposals 6 28 3 37 Impairment 82 26 12 120 Net exchange adjustment 3 6 1 10 At 31 December 2008 488 948 126 22 1,584 Net book value At 31 December 2008 1,441 1,153 231 501 3,326 At 31 December 2007 644 708 163 614 2,129 a D Deemed cost of assets within Kazakhmys LLC For the purpose of the transition to IFRS in 2002, the Directors commissioned an independent company which held a State licence to conduct valuations, to carry out an independent appraisal of property, plant and equipment as of 1 January 2002 to determine their deemed cost at that date.
The deemed cost of property, plant and equipment as of 1 January 2002 was determined primarily with reference to depreciated replacement cost.
The Directors believe that the deemed cost reflected the economic conditions of the Groups property, plant and equipment at that time.
b C Cost of assets within acquired businesses The cost of property, plant and equipment acquired through business acquisitions since the IFRS transition date in 2002 is based on the results of IFRS fair value exercises undertaken at the time of acquisition.
c IImpairment During 2008, property, plant and equipment of $120 million 2007: $26 million was impaired, all of which relates to the Kazakhmys Copper segment.
Included within this amount is an impairment charge of $75 million relating to the Balkhash zinc smelter see note 7. d F Fully depreciated assets At 31 December 2008, the cost of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment within Kazakhmys LLC was $333 million 2007: $228 million, within MKM was $41 million 2007: $30 million, and within other Group entities was $8 million 2007: $nil.
e M MKM investment grants and subsidies Within MKM there were no significant investment grants and subsidies received from the German government in 2008 and 2007.
As at 31 December 2008, gross carrying value of property, plant and equipment previously subsidised by the German government amounted to $13 million 2007: $16 million.
com 107 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED f R Reclassifications The Group has reviewed the presentation of impairment losses within the above table and has showed them within depreciation rather than cost.
As a result of this change in presentation, the comparative numbers for 2007 have been amended with no impact on the total net book value.
MINING ASSETS Mine Mine development stripping $ million costs costs Total Cost At 1 January 2007 114 46 160 Business acquisition 239 239 Additions 2 28 30 Disposals 1 19 20 Net exchange adjustment 6 3 9 At 31 December 2007 360 58 418 Business acquisition 46 46 Additions 19 9 28 Capitalised depreciation 1 1 Disposals 3 45 48 Net exchange adjustment 3 1 4 At 31 December 2008 373 68 441 Depletion and impairment At 1 January 2007 16 1 17 Depletion charge 13 19 32 Disposals 1 19 20 Net exchange adjustment 1 1 At 31 December 2007 29 1 30 Depletion charge 14 44 58 Disposals 3 45 48 Impairment 115 11 126 At 31 December 2008 155 11 166 Net book value At 31 December 2008 218 57 275 At 31 December 2007 331 57 388 During 2008, mining assets of $126 million 2007: $nil were impaired, analysed between $112 million 2007: $nil for the Kazakhmys Gold segment and $14 million 2007: $nil for the Kazakhmys Copper segment see note 7.
AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENT $ million 2008 2007 At 1 January 2,401 Additions 806 Revaluation to fair value 1,041 1,595 Reclassification of available for sale investment to investment in associate 3,442 At 31 December 2,401 The available for sale investment relates to the Groups shareholding in ENRC prior to this investment being treated as an associate and the fair value is determined by reference to the published price quotation on the London Stock Exchange.
As explained below in note 19, following the share exchange with the Government, the investment was reclassified from being an available for sale investment to an investment in associate.
The unrealised gain on the available for sale investment, included within capital reserves, was correspondingly released through equity against the investment in associate.
INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE On 26 October 2007, the Group acquired an 18.8% interest in ENRC at a price of $806 million.
At the time of the listing of ENRC on the main board of the London Stock Exchange in December 2007, new shares were issued by ENRC to which the Group did not subscribe and hence the Groups interest in ENRC reduced from 18.8% to 14.6% taking into account the full exercise of the over-allotment option.
108 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements At 31 December 2007, the Groups 14.6% shareholding in ENRC was classified as an available for sale investment and was recorded at a fair value of $2,401 million.
On 24 July 2008, the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,607,884 shares in ENRC, which it received on 28 July 2008.
The share price of the Company as at the date of the share issue was 13.17 per share, and the market value of the shares issued was $2,110 million.
In addition stamp duty of $10 million was incurred, taking the total cost of the transaction to $2,120 million.
Following completion of these transactions, the Groups shareholding in ENRC increased to 22.2%.
Between 31 July and 8 August 2008, the Group purchased for a total cost of $800 million, a further 35,733,717 shares in ENRC thereby taking the Groups total holding in ENRC to 25.0% of the issued share capital.
Between 2 October and 27 October 2008, the Group purchased, for a total cost of $108 million, a further 12,647,009 shares in ENRC thereby taking the Groups total holding in ENRC to 334,824,860 or 26.0% of the issued share capital.
After the completion of these transactions, the total number of shares held by the Group in ENRC at 31 December 2008 was 334,824,860.
$ million 2008 Investment in associate At 1 January Reclassified from available for sale investment 3,442 Additions 3,028 1 Share of profits from associate 255 Net share of losses of associate recognised in equity 6 Impairment recognised against unrealised gain on available for sale investment in equity 2,636 Dividends received 38 At 31 December 4,045 1 Share of profits from associate is net of tax.
At 31 December 2008, the Groups 26.0% in ENRC had a market value of $1,600 million which is determined by reference to the published price quotation on the London Stock Exchange.
Following the piecemeal acquisition of the associate, the Groups investment in associate has been impaired by $2,636 million.
This impairment charge has been recognised directly in equity against the unrealised gain on the available for sale investment, and there is no impact on the consolidated income statement.
The impairment arose due to the requirements of IFRS 3 Business combinations and IAS 28 Investments in associates which requires the cost of acquisition of each tranche to be compared to the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquiree.
With the exception of the acquisition of the final tranche of ENRC shares in October 2008, the acquisitions in July and August 2008 were undertaken prior to the sharp decrease in commodity prices and share prices of listed natural resource companies, at a time when the prevailing market value of ENRC has since been considered to have been at an elevated level compared to ENRCs recoverable amount at that time.
The Groups cost of investment in associate in excess of the value-in-use has therefore been impaired and this has been recognised against the unrealised gain within equity from when the shareholding was classified as an available for sale investment arising prior to the time when the Group equity accounted its investment in ENRC.
The recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charge is based on a value in use methodology using a discounted cash flow model.
The future cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 13%.
In light of the current volatility in share prices, particularly those of natural resource industry companies and the $ exchange rate, the Directors do not believe that the Groups investment in the associate is impaired at 31 December 2008 as the Directors assessment of ENRCs recoverable amount, using long-term forecasts and assumptions, supports ENRCs carrying value at 31 December 2008.
The accounting period end of ENRC is 31 December.
The following is a summary of the financial information of the Groups investment in ENRC based on ENRCs published results: $ million 2008 Share of associates balance sheet Total assets 2,604 Total liabilities 446 Net assets 2,158 Carrying amount of the investment 4,045 $ million 2008 Share of associates revenue and profit Revenue 721 Operating profit 372 Profit before finance items and taxation 370 Net finance costs and share of loss of joint venture 16 Income tax expense 99 Profit for the period 255 www.
com 109 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
OTHER NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS Unlisted Long-term Long-term $ million investments securities deposits Total Cost At 1 January 2007 2 4 2 8 Additions 5 2 2 9 Disposals 1 2 3 At 31 December 2007 7 5 2 14 Additions 2 2 Disposals 5 4 2 11 At 31 December 2008 2 1 2 5 Provision for impairment At 31 December 2007 2 2 Disposals 2 2 At 31 December 2008 Net book value At 31 December 2008 2 1 2 5 At 31 December 2007 5 5 2 12 a U Unlisted investments The Group has a 10.26% interest in Kazenergocable JSC amounting to $1 million 2007: $1 million.
Kazenergocable JSC is a company involved in the production of copper-based products in Kazakhstan.
b L Long-term securities As at 31 December 2008 corporate bonds held for trading amounting to $1 million 2007: $2 million were held by MKM in order to fund future obligations arising from part-time contracts for older employees.
As at 31 December 2007 Kazakhmys Pension Fund JSC held corporate bonds and securities of listed companies held to maturity amounting to $3 million.
This company was sold during 2008. c L Long-term deposits As required by the Groups site restoration obligations, the Group is obliged to deposit cash in restricted special purpose bank accounts that have been classified as long-term deposits.
INVENTORIES $ million 2008 2007 Raw materials and consumables 318 287 Work in progress 312 286 Finished goods 194 272 Gross value of inventories 824 845 Inventories provision 90 30 734 815 The carrying amount of inventory that has been written down to net realisable value is $93 million 2007: $nil.
The amount of inventories held as security for MKM borrowings is $132 million 2007: $221 million.
PREPAYMENTS AND OTHER CURRENT ASSETS $ million 2008 2007 VAT reclaimable 116 103 Advances paid for goods and services 82 92 Amounts due from related parties 15 13 Other 34 21 Gross value of prepayments and other current assets 247 229 Provision for impairment of receivables 9 17 238 212 Provision for impairment as at 31 December 2008 includes a provision against the advance paid to Zhezkazganmunai JSC, a related party included within other companies see note 36, amounting to $nil 2007: $10 million as the advance was written off.
110 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements 23.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES $ million 2008 2007 Trade receivables 267 347 Amounts due from related parties 60 31 Amounts due from third parties 207 316 Interest receivable 2 7 Other receivables 8 12 Gross value of trade and other receivables 277 366 Provision for impairment of receivables 44 33 233 333 Provision for impairment as at 31 December 2008 includes a provision on the receivables from JSC Water Heat Supply, a related party included within companies under trust management see note 36, amounting to $25 million 2007: $18 million.
The amount of trade receivables held as security for MKM borrowings is $97 million 2007: $162 million.
CURRENT INVESTMENTS Bank Assets held $ million deposits for trading Total At 1 January 2007 1,187 50 1,237 Additions 1,358 1,358 Disposals 2,491 51 2,542 Foreign exchange gain 41 41 Net exchange adjustment 44 1 45 At 31 December 2007 57 57 Additions 103 103 Disposals 128 128 At 31 December 2008 32 32 The bank deposits above are held within Kazakhstan and are invested with major Kazakhstan banks and local branches of international financial institutions.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS $ million 2008 2007 Cash deposits with maturities of less than three months 44 189 Cash at bank 496 249 Petty cash 1 540 439 Cash deposits within Kazakhstan are held with major Kazakhstan banks and local branches of international financial institutions.
Cash deposits held outside of Kazakhstan are principally held with Western European and US financial institutions and their triple A rated managed liquidity funds.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES a A Authorised and allotted share capital Number million $ million Authorised At 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 Ordinary shares of 20 pence each 750,000,000 150 Allotted and called up share capital At 1 January 2007 467,474,200 93 173 Shares issued 2,559,665 1 1 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 9,910,577 2 4 At 31 December 2007 460,123,288 92 170 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 5,169,000 1 2 Shares issued 80,286,050 16 32 At 31 December 2008 535,240,338 107 200 In September 2007, the Company issued 2,559,665 ordinary shares of 20 pence each and paid $12 million in consideration for the transfer to it of 227,959,211 units in Kazakhmys LLC by minority shareholders.
Following this transaction, the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC increased from 99.08% as at 1 January 2007 to 99.73% as at 31 December 2007. www.
com 111 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES CONTINUED Commencing from October 2007, the Company began a share buy-back programme, which concluded in January 2008, whereby the Company bought back and cancelled 15,079,577 ordinary shares at a total cost of $391 million including expenses, of which 5,169,000 were cancelled in 2008 at total cost of $121 million including expenses.
In July 2008 the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,607,884 shares in ENRC.
b C Capital reserves Currency Capital Net unrealised translation redemption Hedging gains reserve reserve reserve reserve $ million Reserve fund Total At 1 January 2007 38 228 266 Unrealised gain on available for sale investments 1,595 1,595 Currency translation differences 223 223 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 4 4 At 31 December 2007 38 1,595 451 4 2,088 Unrealised gain on available for sale investments 1,041 1,041 Impairment of associate recognised against unrealised gain on available for sale investment in equity 2,636 2,636 Share of losses of associate recognised in equity 2 1 8 11 Movement in cash flow hedges 1 1 Currency translation differences 36 36 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 2 2 At 31 December 2008 38 2 414 6 7 449 i R Reserve fund In accordance with legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan the reserve fund comprises prescribed transfers from retained earnings amounting to 15% of Kazakhmys LLCs charter capital.
ii N Net unrealised gains reserve The net unrealised gains reserve is used to record the fair value movements of available for sale investments.
iii F Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the US dollar into the Groups presentation currency.
iv C Capital redemption reserve As a result of the share buy-back programme, transfers are made from share capital to the capital redemption reserve based on the nominal value of the shares cancelled.
v H Hedging reserve The hedging reserve is used to record the fair value movements of derivative financial instruments that have been designated as cash flow hedges.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENT PLANS Commencing from 2007 the Company established a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and a Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
The total expense for the year ended 31 December 2008 arising from these plans was $1.0 million 2007: $0.1 million.
Both plans are discretionary benefits offered by the Company for the benefit of its employees.
The main purpose is to increase the interest of the employees in Kazakhmys long-term business goals and performance through share ownership.
They represent incentives for employees future performance and commitment to be aligned to the goals of the Group.
The shares issued under these plans are not potential dilutive ordinary shares as the Company plans to purchase the shares issued to employees in the market.
a L Long Term Incentive Plan Under the LTIP, shares are granted to senior management of the Company at nil cost.
The vesting of the shares is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group as compared to a group of listed comparator companies, as well as a requirement for the recipients of awards to remain in employment with the Company over the vesting period.
There are no cash settlement alternatives.
The first awards, granted on 3 December 2007, under the LTIP were made with either a two year vesting period or a three year vesting period.
Awards over 11,226 shares were granted with a two year vesting period and awards over 37,862 shares were granted with a three year vesting period.
On 7 April 2008, awards over 66,202 shares were granted with a three year vesting period.
Additional awards are due to be granted to senior management in April 2009 and these will be subject to the same vesting criteria as the awards granted on 7 April 2008.
The fair value of the shares was estimated at the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the shares were granted.
This model simulates the TSR and compares it against the group of comparator companies.
It takes into account historic dividends and share price fluctuations to predict the distribution of relative share performance.
112 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements The following table shows the movements in the number of shares during the year: Number 2008 2007 Outstanding at 1 January 49,088 Granted on 3 December 2007 2 year vesting period 11,226 Granted on 3 December 2007 3 year vesting period 37,862 Granted on 7 April 2008 3 year vesting period 66,202 Outstanding at 31 December 115,290 49,088 Exercisable at 31 December The following table lists the inputs to the model: 2008 2007 Shares granted Shares granted Shares granted with a 3 year with a 2 year with a 3 year vesting period vesting period vesting period Number of awards 66,202 11,226 37,862 Fair value at grant date 11.43 7.326 7.704 Share price at grant date 16.97 13.45 13.45 Exercise price nil nil nil Expected volatility 44.5% 42.1% 41.7% Expected weighted average life at 31 December 2008 2.3 years 0.9 years 1.9 years The award of shares are not affected by the risk-free rate of interest since no investment is required by the recipient, and therefore no interest could be earned elsewhere.
On vesting of the award, the participants are entitled to cash equal to the value of dividends excluding the dividend tax credit that would have been paid on those shares between the grant date and the date of vesting.
Therefore, expected dividend yield does not affect the valuation of the awards and has been set at zero to achieve this effect.
Expected volatility is based on historic share price movements.
b D Deferred Share Bonus Plan On 7 April 2008, awards over 11,403 shares were granted to employees based on an average share price at grant date of 15.95 with a two year vesting period.
Under the DSBP, the awards were based on the deferred amount of an employees 2007 bonus.
Additional shares under the DSBP are due to be granted to employees in April 2009 based on the deferred amount of an employees 2008 bonus.
The number of shares granted to employees will be based on the cash value of the deferred bonus and the average share price for a period of time prior to the grant date in April 2009.
The shares granted will vest after a period of two years after grant date.
At 31 December 2008, the cash value of the awards eligible for the DSBP, for which shares will be granted in April 2009, was $0.3 million.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated income statement and amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet for the respective plans: $ million 2008 2007 Kazakhstan post-retirement benefits 38 34 Germany part-time contracts 2 3 Recognised liability for employee benefit obligations 40 37 Kazakhstan $ million 2008 2007 Net liability at 1 January 34 29 Employers share of current service cost 1 1 Net actuarial losses recognised in the period 1 1 Interest cost on benefit obligation 4 3 Benefits provided to employees 2 1 Net exchange adjustment 1 Net liability at 31 December 38 34 Germany $ million 2008 2007 Net liability at 1 January 3 5 Employers share of current service cost 1 Benefits provided to employees 1 3 Net liability at 31 December 2 3 www.
com 113 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS CONTINUED a K Kazakhstan Kazakhmys LLC provides post-retirement benefits in Kazakhstan which are unfunded.
The actuarial losses on prior period service costs which existed as at 31 December 2008 amounted to $15 million 2007: $17 million.
A discount rate of 7.5% 2007: 7.5% has been used in calculating the employee benefit liabilities and associated charges, as measured in Kazakhstan tenge.
The Group continues to pay the non-monetary benefits described in note 8. b G Germany In Germany, MKM has obligations arising from part-time contracts for older employees that have been collectively agreed with the employees trade union.
Non-current investments amounting to $1 million 2007: $2 million have been set aside to fund MKMs obligations relating to part-time contracts.
PROVISIONS Site restoration Payments for Deferred $ million and clean up licences consideration Other Total At 1 January 2007 28 31 59 Business acquisition 1 1 Arising during the year 10 35 45 Utilised 3 3 Foreign exchange gain 2 2 Unwinding of discount 3 5 8 Net exchange adjustment 2 2 4 At 31 December 2007 44 68 112 Business acquisition 3 169 44 216 Arising during the year 3 3 6 Utilised 3 5 8 Unwinding of discount 1 3 1 5 At 31 December 2008 48 74 165 44 331 Current 6 83 44 133 Non-current 48 68 82 198 At 31 December 2008 48 74 165 44 331 Current 3 11 14 Non-current 41 57 98 At 31 December 2007 44 68 112 a S Site restoration and clean up The costs of decommissioning and reclamation of mines within the Group are based on the amounts included in the Groups contracts for subsoil use.
The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated costs to decommission and reclaim the mines at the dates of depletion of each of the deposits.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a discount rate of 3% 2007: 3% per year.
The liability becomes payable at the end of the useful life of each mine which ranges from one to 41 years.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives, and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
b P Payments for licences for mining assets In accordance with its contracts for subsoil uses the Group is liable to repay the costs of geological information provided by the Government of Kazakhstan for licensed deposits.
The total amount payable by the Group is discounted to its present value using a discount rate of 8% 2007: 8%.
The uncertainties include estimating the amount of the payments and their timing.
The amounts are payable prior to 2025. c P Payments for licences for exploration assets In accordance with the terms of the exploration licence, Kazakhmys Petroleum LLP is liable to make payments to the Government for geological information and social commitments in Astana and the Aktobe region.
The present value of the obligations is estimated by applying a discount rate of 12%.
d D Deferred consideration Provision for deferred consideration has been made for future payments arising from the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power in May 2008.
As described in note 49, following termination of the management contract with AES, the total consideration payable arising from the acquisition of Kazakhmys Power includes fixed deferred consideration payments of $165 million on a discounted basis discounted at a rate of 10.5%.
On a gross basis, $3 million is payable in January 2009, $80 million in April 2009 and $102 million in January 2010. e O Other Other provisions are recorded where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation and a future outflow of resources is considered probable.
114 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements 30.
BORROWINGS Average interest rate during Currency of Current Non-current Total $ million Maturity the year denomination $ million $ million $ million 31 December 2008 Pre-export finance facility US$ LIBOR 1.25% 2013 3.92% US dollar 429 1,650 2,079 Revolving trade finance facility EURIBOR 1.45% 2010 4.74% Euro 69 52 121 498 1,702 2,200 31 December 2007 Revolving trade finance facility EURIBOR 1.45% 2010 5.61% Euro 196 196 Halyk Bank loan fixed at 11.67% 2008 11.67% US dollar 2 2 2 196 198 Pre-export finance facility On 29 February 2008 Kazakhmys Finance PLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, signed a five year pre-export finance facility of $2,100 million with a syndicate of banks to be used for general corporate purposes, including the acquisition of the Ekibastuz power plant and Maikuben West coal mine and incremental purchases of shares in ENRC.
As at 31 December 2008, the facility was fully drawn.
The loan is secured on the value of copper sales contracts with certain designated customers.
Monthly loan repayments will commence in March 2009 through to February 2013 following a one year availability period.
Arrangement fees with an amortised cost as at 31 December 2008 of $21 million gross cost before amortisation of $26 million have been netted off against these borrowings in accordance with IAS 39.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance at a rate of US$ LIBOR 1.25%.
Kazakhmys PLC, Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys Sales Ltd act as guarantors of the loan.
The pre-export finance facility contains change of control clauses which are shown on page 67.
Revolving trade finance facility In May 2006 MKM entered into a revolving trade finance facility with a syndicate of banks for a four year loan of up to 230 million to repay borrowings from Dresden Bank and intercompany balances due to Kazakhmys LLC, and for general working capital purposes.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance at a rate of EURIBOR 1.45%.
Monthly loan repayments will commence in June 2009 through to May 2010.
The loan is secured over the inventories and receivables of MKM.
Revolving credit facility On 26 August 2008 Kazakhmys Finance PLC signed a $200 million revolving credit facility with a group of banks for general corporate purposes and to provide standby liquidity.
Of the facility, $150 million has been extended to 31 March 2010.
At 31 December 2008, the facility was undrawn.
Undrawn facilities The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities in place: $ million 2008 2007 Credit lines 302 287 31.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES $ million 2008 2007 Trade payables 146 98 Salaries and related payables 56 40 Other taxes payable 53 48 Amounts payable to related parties 10 4 Payments received in advance 8 13 Other payables and accrued expenses 33 21 306 224 www.
com 115 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
RECONCILIATION OF PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES $ million 2008 2007 Profit before taxation 1,086 2,026 Interest income 23 94 Interest expense 66 14 Depreciation and depletion 346 261 Amortisation 3 3 Share of profits from associate 255 Impairment losses 400 30 Unrealised foreign exchange loss 2 45 Gain on disposal of investments 5 1 Loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 2 Operating cash flows before changes in working capital and provisions 1,622 2,282 Increase in inventories 4 31 Increase in prepayments and other current assets 21 100 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 91 46 Increase in employee benefits 3 3 Increase in provisions 7 15 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 54 123 Cash flows from operations before interest, income taxes and dividends from associate 1,752 2,000 Non-cash transaction As stated in note 26 a, in July 2008 the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,607,884 shares in ENRC.
This represents a non-cash transaction for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement.
MOVEMENT IN NET LIQUID FUNDS DEBT At Net At 1 January Business exchange 31 December 1 $ million 2008 acquisition Cash flow translation 2008 Cash and cash equivalents 439 101 540 Current investments 57 25 32 Borrowings 198 159 1,854 11 2,200 Net liquid funds debt 298 159 1,778 11 1,628 At Net Other At 1 January Business exchange non-cash 31 December 1 2 $ million 2007 acquisition Cash flow translation movements 2007 Cash and cash equivalents 786 386 39 439 Current investments 1,237 1,184 45 41 57 Borrowings 277 6 112 27 198 Net liquid funds 1,746 6 1,458 84 68 298 1 Cash flow includes cash and cash equivalents acquired through business acquisitions.
2 Other non-cash movements comprise foreign exchange losses gains incurred by the Companys entities and recognised in the consolidated income statement.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are liquidity risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity price risk.
These risks arise from exposures that occur in the normal course of business and are managed by the Groups Treasury department in close cooperation with the Groups business divisions under oversight of a Treasury Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
The responsibilities of the Treasury Committee include the monitoring of financial risks, management of the Groups cash resources, debt funding programmes and capital structure, approval of counterparties and relevant transaction limits, and oversight of all significant treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
The Treasury department operates as a service centre to the business divisions of the Group and not as a profit centre.
A Group Treasury Policy has been approved by the Board and is periodically updated to reflect developments in the financial markets and the financial exposures facing the Group.
The Treasury Policy covers specific areas of financial risk management, in particular, liquidity risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and commodity price risk.
The Groups Treasury Committee and the Groups Internal Audit department monitor compliance with the Treasury Policy on a regular basis.
The Groups Treasury department prepares monthly treasury reports for senior management which monitor all major financial exposures and treasury activities undertaken by the Group.
In addition, a treasury report is prepared for each Board meeting which includes a summary of the credit markets and their impact on the implementation of the Groups strategy, progress on the Groups financing initiatives and the significant financial exposures faced by the Group.
116 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements The Groups principal financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivatives used for risk management purposes.
The Groups borrowings, surplus liquidity and derivative financial instruments are controlled and managed centrally by the Groups Treasury department.
Liquidity retained within Kazakhstan is only held for working capital purposes.
The Groups accounting policies with regard to financial instruments are detailed in note 3. a D Derivatives, financial instruments and risk management The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and exchange rates.
The Groups philosophy is generally not to hedge its core revenue streams.
In periods of significant market volatility or uncertainty, the Group may use derivative instruments as a means of reducing volatility and any negative impact on its operating cash flows.
Strict limits on the size and type of any derivative hedge transaction are laid down by the Board and subject to strict internal controls.
The Group does not hold any speculative financial instruments.
During 2008, in light of significant market volatility and disruption in the financial sector, the Group entered into a number of interest rate swap contracts to convert debt carried at floating rates into debt which is carried at fixed interest rates in order to reduce the volatility of finance costs.
Forward commodity contracts are used, in limited situations, to hedge against copper Quotational Period differences arising on the price fixations between purchases of copper cathode by Kazakhmys Sales Ltd from Kazakhmys LLC and sales of copper cathode by Kazakhmys Sales Ltd to end customers.
MKM uses natural hedging arising on back-to-back purchase and supply contracts to manage its economic exposure to changes in the price of copper.
In those limited cases where a natural hedge is not possible, MKM uses commodity futures to manage its exposure to changes in the price of copper.
All commodity hedge contracts are for short-term duration less than 12 months.
No foreign exchange hedge transactions were entered into during 2008 or 2007. b C Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by categories are as follows: $ million Note 2008 2007 Available for sale financial assets 18 2,401 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 20,24,25 577 508 Loans and receivables 23 233 333 1 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 29,30 2,483 266 2 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 31 299 226 1 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise borrowings and provision for cash payments payments for licences, deferred consideration and other.
2 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss comprise trade and other payables, derivative financial instruments and dividend payable.
c F Foreign exchange risk The Group has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures arise from sales or purchases by an operating company in currencies other than that companys functional currency.
The functional currency of Kazakhmys LLC, Kazakhmys Power, Kazakhmys Gold and Kazakhmys Petroleum is the Kazakhstan tenge, with MKM having a Euro functional currency, Kazakhmys Services Ltd having a UK pound functional currency, and the Company and the other entities within the Group having a US dollar functional currency.
The currencies giving rise to this foreign currency risk are primarily the US dollar based revenues, bank deposits, trade receivables and certain trade payables of Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys Gold, and the US dollar balances in respect of certain revenues, and trade receivables and payables of MKM.
The Group generally does not enter into hedging positions in respect of its exposure to foreign currency risk.
i F Foreign currency exposure by company profile The analysis in the table below of the net monetary assets and liabilities indicates the Groups exposure to currencies other than the functional currency of a company.
These exposures represent the transactional exposures that may give rise to net currency gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
As at 31 December 2008 and 2007, these exposures were as follows: $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other 2008 Company n a MKM 23 7 n a 1 Kazakhmys LLC 1,754 3 n a 3 Kazakhmys Power 267 n a 2 Kazakhmys Gold 6 n a Kazakhmys Petroleum 5 n a Other non-trading or holding companies n a 1 3 1,521 7 3 1 3 www.
com 117 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other 2007 Company n a 13 143 MKM 21 9 n a 2 Kazakhmys LLC 1,507 97 n a 1 Kazakhmys Gold 10 n a Kazakhmys Petroleum 4 n a Other non-trading or holding companies n a 2,401 n a 1,542 2,397 97 143 1 ii Foreign currency exposure by balance sheet account profile The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk based on notional amounts is shown below: $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other 2008 Trade and other receivables 1,682 7 1 Current investments 25 Cash and cash equivalents 141 1 1 Provisions for cash payments 44 Borrowings 188 Trade and other payables 95 3 5 1,521 7 3 1 3 $ million US dollar UK sterling Euro KZT Other 2007 Available for sale investments 2,401 Trade and other receivables 1,440 16 90 143 Current investments 50 Cash and cash equivalents 88 7 Provisions for cash payments 27 Borrowings 2 Trade and other payables 7 20 1 1,542 2,397 97 143 1 iii Foreign currency sensitivity analysis A 10 per cent strengthening of the US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased equity and profit after tax by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 $ million Equity Profit Equity Profit KZT 134 151 Euro 2 13 UK sterling 240 A 10 per cent weakening of US dollar against the above currencies at 31 December would have had an equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
d Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in the price of copper, which is quoted in US dollars on the international markets.
The Group prepares annual budgets and periodic forecasts including sensitivity analyses in respect of various levels of copper prices in the future.
The Group is also exposed, to a lesser degree, to the prices of other metals, including zinc, gold and silver, which are products produced by the Group as by-products to the copper production process.
The Kazakhmys Power business is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in electricity tariffs that it is able to charge to customers.
118 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements In accordance with IFRS 7, the impact of commodity prices has been determined based on the balances of financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2008.
This sensitivity does not represent the income statement impact that would be expected from a movement in commodity prices over the course of a period of time.
A 10 per cent increase decrease of commodity prices would have increased decreased profit loss after tax by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular costs, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2007: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 $ million Impact on profit Impact on profit Copper 1 Zinc Silver Gold As explained in note 34 a above, the Group uses forward commodity contracts to hedge against Quotational Period differences arising on price fixations within the UK sales operation.
There were no commodity hedge contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2008 2007: nil.
e IInterest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact borrowings by changing their future cash flows floating rate debt or their fair value fixed rate debt and deposits.
The Groups interest rate management policy is to generally borrow and invest at floating rates of interest.
In some circumstances, an element of fixed rate funding may be considered appropriate.
Local market conditions in Kazakhstan dictate that borrowings are generally fixed in nature and as such, borrowings in Kazakhstan are generally short term in nature and used for working capital purposes only.
A limited amount of fixed rate hedging using interest rate swaps may be undertaken during periods where the Groups exposure to movements in short-term interest rates is more significant, or in periods when interest rates are perceived to be below long-term historical levels.
At 31 December 2008, 64% 2007: 1% of total debt was at a fixed rate and the balance was at floating rate.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 December 2008 Non-interest $ million Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Non-current investments 1 2 2 5 Trade and other receivables 233 233 Current investments 32 32 Cash and cash equivalents 243 246 51 540 Total financial assets 244 280 286 810 Financial liabilities Provisions for cash payments 283 283 1 Borrowings 800 1,400 2,200 Trade and other payables 306 306 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Dividend payable 2 2 Total financial liabilities 800 1,685 308 2,793 1 Of the floating rate borrowings of $2,200 million, $1,400 million has been hedged using interest rate swap contracts from floating to fixed rate see below.
At 31 December 2007 Non-interest $ million Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Non-current investments 2 5 5 12 Trade and other receivables 333 333 Current investments 57 57 Cash and cash equivalents 248 155 36 439 Total financial assets 250 217 374 841 Financial liabilities Provisions for cash payments 68 68 Borrowings 196 2 198 Trade and other payables 224 224 Dividend payable 2 2 Total financial liabilities 196 70 226 492 The interest charged on floating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant benchmark rate such as LIBOR.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
com 119 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED During 2008, the Group entered into a series of floating to fixed interest rate swap contracts to provide a cash flow hedge against fluctuations in interest payments due under the pre-export finance facility.
Of the $2,100 million drawn under the facility at 31 December 2008, $1,400 million has been fixed using interest rate swaps as set out in the table below.
The interest rate swaps were the only cash flow hedges entered into by the Group during the year.
Notional Average principal interest rate Maturity Fair value $ million % date $ million US dollar interest rate swaps floating to fixed 900 1.09 Jun 2009 2 US dollar interest rate swaps floating to fixed 500 1.10 Dec 2009 Total interest rate swaps 1,400 1.09 2 In January 2009, the Group took out a further swap for $500 million at an average interest rate of 0.88% which matures on 30 December 2009.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is recorded as derivative financial instruments in the consolidated balance sheet, with a corresponding amount recognised in equity.
Considering the net debt position of the Group at 31 December 2008 2007: net liquid funds position, any increase in interest rates would result in a net loss in the consolidated income statement, and any decrease in interest rates would result in a net gain.
The effect on profit after tax of a 10 per cent movement in US$ LIBOR and EURIBOR rates, based on the year-end borrowings and with all other variables held constant, is estimated to be $1.7 million 2007: $0.8 million.
f C Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets.
Investments in cash, short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments are with approved counter-party banks and other financial institutions in accordance with the Groups Treasury Policy.
Counterparties are assessed prior to, during, and after the conclusion of transactions to ensure exposure to credit risk is limited to an acceptable level.
The maximum exposure with respect to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset on the balance sheet.
Credit risk relating to trade receivables The Groups major exposure to credit risk is in respect of trade receivables.
Given the number and geographical spread of the Groups ultimate customers and the solvency of major trade debtors, credit risk is believed to be limited.
The Group regularly monitors its exposure to bad debts in order to minimise this exposure.
Customer credit risk is managed by each division but is subject to Group oversight to ensure that each divisions customer credit risk management system operates in a prudent and responsible manner.
Credit evaluations are performed for all major customers and credit limits are established based on internal or external rating criteria.
The credit quality of the Groups significant customers is monitored on an ongoing basis, and receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are considered of good credit quality.
Letters of credit are obtained where customer credit quality is not considered strong enough for open credit.
There were no material impairments of trade receivables as at 31 December 2008 or 2007.
The solvency of the debtor and their ability to repay the receivables were considered in assessing the impairment of such assets.
Within Kazakhmys Copper, cash is received prior to delivery and transfer of title of the goods for sales to European customers.
Sales to Chinese customers are made under letters of credit which are obtained prior to delivery and transfer of title of the goods.
Payment from European and Chinese customers is subject to provisional pricing and then final pricing adjustments.
Kazakhmys Copper is therefore exposed to the residual final pricing adjustment for each sales transaction although such amounts are not considered material.
Kazakhmys Power receives cash upfront or has short-payment terms depending on the nature of the customer.
Kazakhmys Gold division has a single long-standing customer with short-payment terms which is agreed via an annual sales contract.
MKM has put in place credit insurance for the majority of its sales and credit limits are set by the credit insurance company depending on the financial strength and location of each customer.
For those sales where credit insurance is not available, short-payment terms and regular dialogue with customers ensures credit risk is kept to a minimum.
As at 31 December 2008, 10 2007: 9 customers accounted for 34% 2007: 47% of the trade and other receivables balance of Kazakhmys Copper.
By 25 March 2009, 98% 5 March 2008: 92% of year-end balances due from these customers had been received in full.
As at 31 December 2008, 10 customers accounted for 83% of the trade and other receivables balance of the Kazakhmys Power division.
By 25 March 2009, 80% of year-end balances due from these customers had been received in full.
As at 31 December 2008, 10 2007: 6 customers accounted for 23% 2007: 71% of the trade and other receivables balance of MKM.
By 25 March 2009, 84% 5 March 2008: 79% of year-end balances due from these customers had been received in full.
120 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements i R Risk for trade receivables by geographical regions The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic area was: $ million 2008 2007 Europe 78 148 China 77 101 Kazakhstan 48 47 Other 30 37 233 333 ii IImpairment losses The ageing of trade receivables at 31 December was: 2008 2007 $ million Gross Impairment Gross Impairment Not past due 127 293 Past due 0-90 days 102 2 36 1 Past due 91-180 days 6 2 4 1 Past due 181-270 days 8 6 3 1 More than 270 days 34 34 30 30 277 44 366 33 The movement in the provision for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: $ million 2008 2007 At 1 January 33 29 Charged to income statement 14 2 Written off 3 2 Net exchange adjustment 4 At 31 December 44 33 iii C Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk relating to the Groups other financial assets, comprising principally cash and cash equivalents, current investments and derivative financial instruments arises from the potential default of counterparties.
Credit risk arising from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups Treasury Committee in accordance with a Board approved Treasury Policy.
Investment of cash and deposits are made only with approved counterparties of high credit worthiness and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
These limits are reviewed on a regular basis to take account of developments in financial markets and updated accordingly.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate any financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
No material exposure is considered to exist by virtue of the possible non-performance of the counterparties to derivative financial instruments.
The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was: $ million 2008 2007 Non-current investments 5 12 Trade and other receivables 233 333 Current investments 32 57 Cash and cash equivalents 540 439 810 841 g L Liquidity risk The Group maintains a balance between availability of funding and maximising investment return on its liquid resources through the use of liquid cash investments of varying maturities, credit facilities and longer-term debt instruments.
Management regularly reviews the funding requirements of the Group in selecting appropriate maturities for its liquid cash investments.
In the event that bank term deposits in Kazakhstan need to be liquidated at short notice in advance of their contracted maturity date, the terms of these investments permit their immediate conversion to cash, and in some instances, the forfeiture of interest accrued to the date of liquidation.
The Groups policy is to centralise debt and surplus cash balances to the maximum extent possible.
As at 31 December 2008, the Group had undrawn standby credit facilities totalling $200 million.
In addition, the MKM revolving trade finance facility had unutilised capacity of $23 million available for drawing, if required.
com 121 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Maturity of financial assets and liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial assets and liabilities which will be settled on a gross basis, into relevant maturity groups based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 More than $ million On demand 3 months months years 5 years Total 2008 1 Provisions for cash payments 3 130 129 45 307 Borrowings 44 454 1,702 2,200 Trade and other payables 306 306 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Dividend payable 2 2 2 353 586 1,831 45 2,817 Non-current investments 5 5 Trade and other receivables 233 233 Current investments 32 32 Cash and cash equivalents 540 540 540 233 32 5 810 538 120 554 1,826 45 2,007 1 Provisions for cash payments are presented on an undiscounted gross basis.
Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 More than $ million On demand 3 months months years 5 years Total 2007 1 Provisions for cash payments 11 21 51 83 Borrowings 2 196 198 Trade and other payables 224 224 Dividend payable 2 2 2 224 13 217 51 507 Non-current investments 12 12 Trade and other receivables 333 333 Current investments 57 57 Cash and cash equivalents 439 439 439 333 57 12 841 437 109 44 205 51 334 1 Provisions for cash payments are presented on an undiscounted gross basis.
h F Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
2008 2007 Carrying Carrying $ million value Fair value value Fair value Available for sale investments 2,401 2,401 Other non-current investments 5 5 12 12 Trade and other receivables 233 231 333 331 Current investments 32 32 57 57 Cash and cash equivalents 540 540 439 439 Provisions for cash payments 283 283 68 68 Borrowings 2,200 2,147 198 198 Trade and other payables 306 304 224 223 Derivative financial instruments 2 2 Dividend payable 2 2 2 2 1,983 1,930 2,750 2,749 122 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: cash and cash equivalents, current investments, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and dividend payable approximate to their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments: fair value of available for sale financial assets are derived from quoted market prices in active markets: the Group has entered into interest rate swaps with various bank counterparties.
The fair value of interest rate swaps are estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using current market interest rates and the yield curve over the remaining term of the instrument: provisions for cash payments are discounted back to their present value: and the fair value of borrowings is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt and remaining maturities.
i Capital management The over-riding objectives of the Groups capital management policy are to safeguard and support the business as a going concern through the commodity cycle and to maintain an optimal capital structure with a view to maximising returns to shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders by reducing the Groups cost of capital.
As a result of acquisitions made during 2008, the Group has moved into a net debt position of $1,628 million as at 31 December 2008.
Included within the debt facilities are financial covenants related to maximum borrowing levels determined by reference to a Net Debt to EBITDA ratio, minimum tangible net worth and interest coverage ratios for which compliance certificates are produced.
All financial covenants were fully complied with during the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
There are no covenants under negotiation at present.
In response to market conditions, the Group has implemented a series of cost cutting measures in the operating businesses, including a significant reduction in discretionary capital expenditure for 2009.
The Directors have also not recommended a final dividend for 2008.
Advanced negotiations over the sale of a proportion of Ekibastuz GRES-1 are taking place which, if successful, should generate significant net proceeds which will be used to reduce the Groups debt.
These measures will assist in strengthening the Groups capital structure.
At 31 December 2008, total capital employed comprised of equity shareholders funds, minority interests and borrowings of the Group amounted to $9,708 million, compared to $6,631 million at 31 December 2007. j Price risk on securities The Group holds German securities on behalf of employees in order to fund its obligations arising from part-time contracts for older employees see note 28.
These securities amounted to $1 million as at 31 December 2008 2007: $2 million.
The Group is therefore exposed to fluctuations in the market price of these securities, although these are not considered to be material.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a Legal claims In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
The Directors believe that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a materially adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Group.
As of 31 December 2008 and 2007 the Group was not involved in any significant legal proceedings, including arbitration.
b Kazakhstan taxation contingencies i Inherent uncertainties in interpreting tax legislation The Group is subject to uncertainties relating to the determination of its tax liabilities.
Kazakhstan tax legislation and practice are in a state of continuous development and, therefore, are subject to varying interpretations and changes which may be applied retrospectively.
Managements interpretation of tax legislation as applied to the transactions and activities of the Group may not coincide with that of the tax authorities.
As a result, the tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Group may be assessed for additional taxes, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
ii Status of tax audits a Kazakhmys Copper transfer pricing During 2007, Kazakhmys LLC was subject to a transfer pricing audit for the years 2001 to 2005 and received a tax assessment for approximately $21 million, including penalties and interest which was subsequently paid to the tax authorities in August 2007.
Based on the results of this audit, management determined that the potential tax exposure for the years 2006 and 2007 would be approximately $28 million if the same methodology applied by the tax authorities for the years 2001 to 2005 was applied to the years 2006 and 2007.
Kazakhmys LLC paid this amount to the tax authorities in two instalments in December 2007 and in April 2008.
In producing the tax audit act arising from the transfer pricing audit for 2001 to 2005, the tax authorities have allowed for a 10% deviation from LME market prices, and also assumed that average LME prices for the month preceding the month when the bill of lading was issued were relevant for the purposes of transfer pricing rather than the quotation periods stipulated in the contracts that were used in determining revenues for accounting purposes.
This same criteria has been applied to 2008 export sales and therefore management believes that Kazakhmys LLC does not bear the risk of additional tax exposures relating to 2008 export sales.
Assuming the approach adopted by the tax authorities in future tax audits is consistent with that which has been applied in prior years, no tax provision has been provided for by Kazakhmys LLC in relation to transfer pricing on 2008 export sales.
com 123 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED b Kazakhmys Copper excess profits tax During 2006, Kazakhmys LLC was subject to a corporate tax audit for the years 2003 to 2005.
The issuance of the tax audit act following this audit implicitly confirmed managements approach to excess profits tax for the years subject to audit.
The cumulative nature of excess profits tax calculations may result in a further assessment of excess profits tax for the years already subject to audit if subsequent tax audits challenge the methodology adopted by Kazakhmys LLC.
However, management believes the excess profits tax methodology adopted by Kazakhmys LLC is in compliance with legislation, and interpretations thereof, and has been applied for all years subsequent to the period of the tax audit.
The Group has fully provided in its financial statements for all potential tax liabilities relating to application of excess profits tax.
The Group is expecting a corporate tax audit to take place in 2009 for the years 2006 to 2008.
Since the tax authorities have previously agreed the excess profits tax methodology applied by Kazakhmys LLC for earlier periods, as described above, management do not expect a challenge from the tax authorities in this area, and in any case, believe that they would be successful in defending any such challenge.
c Kazakhmys Power Ekibastuz LLP was the subject of a tax audit for the years 2002 to 2006 with the main issue under discussion with the tax authorities surrounding the utilisation of carry-forward tax losses.
The courts ruled in favour of the company, but the tax authorities have given notice that they intend to appeal against the judgement, with the appeal due to take place in 2009.
In addition, Maikuben West LLP was the subject of a tax audit for the years 2003 to 2006.
Management has provided for its view of the potential exposure arising from the tax audits within Kazakhmys Power, including fines and penalties, although the tax authorities may be successful in their challenges which could result in higher liabilities than those which have been provided.
iii P Period for additional tax assessments The tax authorities in Kazakhstan are able to raise additional tax assessments for five years after the end of the relevant tax period in respect of all taxes, except for excess profits tax.
In respect of the excess profits tax they are able to raise additional tax assessments for five years after the expiration of the terms of the relevant subsoil contract.
iv P Possible additional tax liabilities The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws promulgated in Kazakhstan and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional material tax liabilities will arise.
However, due to the reasons set out above, the risk remains that the relevant tax authorities may take a differing position with regard to the interpretation of contractual provisions or tax law.
The resulting effect of this matter is that additional tax liabilities may arise.
However, due to the range of uncertainties described above in assessing any potential additional tax liabilities, it is not practicable for the Directors to estimate the financial effect in terms of the amount of additional tax liabilities, if any, together with any associated penalties and charges for which the Group may be liable.
c G German taxation contingencies i S Status of tax audits In 2007 the German tax authorities finalised a tax audit of MKM for the years 1999 to 2002.
The years from 2003 to 2007 remain open for inspection.
Consequently, the tax figures recorded in the financial statements for these years may be subject to change.
The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws promulgated in Germany and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional material tax liabilities will arise.
ii P Payments of future utilised tax losses In accordance with the privatisation agreement between the successor body of the former state-controlled shareholder in MKM, BMBG  Berlin GmbH BMGB and Lamitref Holding B. V. former owner of MKM, dated 18 December 1995, to the extent that MKM utilised tax losses against taxable income, it was required to make certain agreed upon payments to BMGB.
The maximum payment that was payable to BMGB was $116 million.
However, in 2007, MKM reached agreement with the German government, whereby all losses accumulated prior to May 1999 were forfeited with losses after this date being retained by MKM.
Therefore, no future payments are required be made to BMBG subsequent to this agreement as the losses accumulated prior to May 1999 are no longer available to MKM.
d U UK taxation contingencies i S Status of tax audits In 2008, the UK tax authorities agreed the 2005 tax computation for the Company but the 2006 and 2007 tax computations remain open for inspection.
The Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance with the tax laws promulgated in the UK and any contractual terms entered into that relate to tax which affect its operations and that, consequently, no additional material tax liabilities will arise.
ii T Transfer pricing The Directors believe the Group is in substantial compliance with regards to UK transfer pricing legislation as an appropriate profit margin has been generated within the UK sales operation since its formation at the time of Listing to cover the transfer of risks and rewards from Kazakhstan to the UK.
124 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements e IInsurance The insurance industry in Kazakhstan is in a developing state and many forms of insurance protection common in other parts of the world are not yet generally available.
The Group has purchased a catastrophic insurance programme in the London market to mitigate the effect of the loss or damage of certain of its assets located at its facilities and the resultant business interruption although such a programme may not provide full cover in the event of a major loss.
The Group does not have third party liability coverage in respect of property or environmental damage arising from accidents on Group property or relating to Group operations.
There is a risk that the loss or destruction of certain assets could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations and financial position.
f E Environmental contingencies Environmental regulations in Kazakhstan are continually evolving and new emissions legislation is expected to become effective from 2012.
The outcome of the environmental regulations under proposal or any future environmental legislation cannot be reliably estimated at present.
As obligations are determined, they will be provided for in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Directors believe that there are no significant liabilities under current legislation not accrued for in the Groups consolidated financial statements, however recognise that any future changes in legislation may have a significant impact on the Groups results.
The provision that has been made for costs associated with restoration and abandonment of mine sites upon depletion of deposits see note 29, is based upon the estimation of the Groups specialists.
Where events occur that change the level of estimated future costs for these activities, the provision will be adjusted accordingly.
g U Use of subsoil and exploration rights In Kazakhstan, all subsoil reserves belong to the State, with the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources the Ministry granting exploration and production rights to third party bodies.
Subsoil and exploration rights are not granted in perpetuity, and any renewal must be agreed before the expiration of the relevant contract or licence.
These rights may be terminated by the Ministry if the Group does not satisfy its contractual obligations.
The current subsoil rights will expire at varying dates up to 2025. h O Obligations to pension fund beneficiaries At 31 December 2007, Kazakhmys LLC owned 69.78% of the Accumulating Pension Fund of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC the Fund, a corporate accumulative pension fund established under the laws of Kazakhstan which is run by RBS Kazakhstan.
In April 2008, Kazakhmys LLC sold its majority shareholding in the Fund and reduced its shareholding to 0.2%.
Most of Kazakhmys LLCs employees and former employees are beneficiaries, and are entitled to an amount comprising the indexed value of their contributions.
Under Kazakhstan law, the Fund calculates the benefits of its members on an annual basis.
Kazakhmys LLC does not make any contributions to the Fund on behalf of its employees.
The Funds rules set out that the payment obligation to Fund beneficiaries is based on the nominal value of contributions, indexed in accordance with a formula set out in the Funds rules.
In the event that the assets of the Fund are insufficient to cover the payment obligations to the beneficiaries, the voting shareholders of the Fund including Kazakhmys LLC are jointly liable for their proportionate share of the shortfall.
The last valuation as at 31 December 2007 showed the Funds payment obligations were $191 million, and the fair market value of the Funds assets amounted to $209 million.
i C Commitments in respect of the acquisition of MKM In the context of its acquisition of MKM in December 2004, the Group is committed to invest approximately $43 million in capital expenditure by 31 December 2008, inject working capital of $37 million and ensure that MKM employs at least 1,006 employees up to 31 December 2006.
As at 31 December 2008, $55 million 2007: $44 million had been invested in capital expenditure in MKM since acquisition.
The average number of employees during the year ended 31 December 2008 was 1,052 2007: 1,045.
Working capital in excess of $37 million has been injected into MKM.
j O Other commitments The table below sets out the Groups expenditure commitments in property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2008 and 2007: $ million 2008 2007 Property, plant and equipment 298 93 The Group has capital expenditure commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment as well as commitments under its mining subsoil agreements and the petroleum exploration licence.
Committed expenditure under these subsoil agreements relates to investments in community-related projects, and includes investments in social sphere assets, infrastructure and public utilities.
com 125 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED k G Guarantee of employee loans Kazakhmys LLCs employees are permitted to enter into loan arrangements with banks on normal commercial terms under which Kazakhmys LLC has guaranteed to deduct repayments from employees remuneration in accordance with agreed schedules of repayment.
The total value of this guarantee amounted to $5 million as at 31 December 2008 2007: $6 million.
l O Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2008, the Group had the following total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: $ million 2008 2007 Within one year 1 2 After one year but not more than five years 5 8 More than five years 10 16 16 26 36.
RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES a T Transactions with related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial period: Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases owed by owed to related from related related related $ million parties parties parties parties Companies related to Chairman 2007 806 1 Companies under trust management 2008 14 11 37 1 2007 7 7 12 1 1 Other companies 2008 4 48 13 9 2007 2 31 4 3 1 A provision of $25 million 2007: $28 million has been set against the balance.
i G Government On 24 July 2008, the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government, thereby making the Government a 15% shareholder of the Company and a related party with effect from this date.
Throughout the normal course of business, the Group conducts transactions with entities controlled by the Government.
The principal activities relate to the payment of electricity transmission fees, use of railway infrastructure and payments to tax authorities.
Transactions between the Group and Government departments and agencies are considered to be related party transactions unless they meet all of the following criteria: they were done in the ordinary course of business of the Government department and or company: there is no choice of suppliers: and they have terms and conditions including prices, privileges, credit terms, regulations, etc that are consistently applied to all entities, public or private.
The Group did not have any non-arms length or privileged transactions with entities controlled by the Government.
The Governments share of the interim dividend paid by the Company on 24 October 2008 was $11 million.
ii O Option agreement with Chairman Following approval of the transaction from the independent shareholders on 19 October 2007, and receipt of regulatory approval from the Government, the Group exercised the call option over Vladimir Kims interest in Eurasia Natural Resources Corporation PLC ENRC for a total consideration of $806 million on 26 October 2007.
This represented 100% of the initial investment of $751 million plus a 10% margin reflecting the risk of the initial investment and the actual financing and transaction costs incurred by Vladimir Kim less any dividends paid to him as a result of holding the stake.
126 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements iii E ENRC The Group received a dividend of $38 million from ENRC, the associated undertaking, in November 2008. iv C Companies under trust management agreements The Group operates a number of companies under trust management agreements with local and state authorities.
The activities include heating distribution systems, road maintenance and aviation services.
The purpose of these agreements is to provide public and social services without any material financial benefit for the Group.
Transactions between the Group and these companies are conducted on an arms length basis.
v O Other companies Transactions with other companies primarily relate to the provision of goods and services, on an arms length basis, with companies whose boards include members of senior management from the Groups subsidiaries.
b T Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Prices for related party transactions are determined by the parties on an ongoing basis depending on the nature of the transaction.
COMPANY NON-CURRENT INVESTMENTS $ million 2008 2007 Cost At 1 January 2,819 1,151 Additions 2,350 1,589 Acquisition of ENRC shares via share exchange 2,110 Capitalised issuance costs 10 Purchase of minority shareholders interest in Kazakhmys LLC 79 At 31 December 7,289 2,819 Provision for impairment At 1 January Charged to the income statement 991 At 31 December 991 Net book value 6,298 2,819 i K Kazakhmys LLC During the year, a Group reorganisation took place such that the Companys investment in Kazakhmys LLC was transferred to an intermediate holding company.
As at 31 December 2008, Kazakhmys LLC is indirectly held by the Company whose beneficial interest is 99.73% 2007: 99.73%.
At 31 December 2007, the Company directly held KZT34,725 million in the charter capital of Kazakhmys LLC, being 99.73% of Kazakhmys LLCs equity.
In September 2007, the Company issued 2,559,665 ordinary shares of 20 pence each and paid $12 million in consideration for the transfer to it of 227,959,211 units in Kazakhmys LLC by minority shareholders.
As a result of this, the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC increased from 99.08% as at 1 January 2007 to 99.73% as at 31 December 2007. ii E ENRC On 24 July 2008 the Company issued 80,286,050 ordinary shares of 20 pence each to the Government in exchange for 98,607,884 shares in ENRC 7.66% of ENRCs issued share capital which it received on 28 July 2008.
The share price of the Company as at the date of the share issue was 13.17 per share, and the market value of the shares issued was $2,120 million, including issue costs of $10 million.
At 31 December 2008, the carrying value of the Companys investment in ENRC was $1,129 million reflecting the recoverable amount of the 7.66% interest in ENRC held at the Company level.
This reflects an impairment loss of $991 million being charged to the Companys income statement.
The impairment arises due to the different IFRS accounting treatment at the Company level of the 7.66% interest in ENRC which is recorded as an investment at cost, compared to the Groups equity accounting treatment.
The recoverable amount used in assessing the impairment charge is based on a value in use methodology, using a discounted cash flow model.
iii O Other investments Balances within additions reflect investments in intermediate holding companies through which the Groups entities are held in MKM, Kazakhmys Power, Kazakhmys Gold, Kazakhmys Petroleum and associated capitalised acquisition costs.
The Company acquired these investments in intermediate holding companies through share for share exchanges.
COMPANY INVENTORIES $ million 2008 2007 Finished goods 16 www.
com 127 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
COMPANY TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES $ million 2008 2007 Dividends receivable from Kazakhmys LLC net of withholding tax 143 Trade receivables 104 Amounts due from related parties 22 2 Other receivables 2 22 251 40.
COMPANY DEFERRED TAXATION Unrecognised deferred tax asset The payment of dividends from Kazakhmys LLC to the Company has created excess foreign tax credits of $63 million 2007: $55 million which have arisen due to the higher effective tax rate in Kazakhstan compared to the UK as well as withholding taxes payable on dividends remitted from Kazakhstan to the UK.
COMPANY CAPITAL RESERVES Capital Capital redemption $ million reserve reserve Total At 1 January 2007 779 779 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 4 4 At 31 December 2007 779 4 783 Purchase of Companys issued share capital 2 2 At 31 December 2008 779 6 785 i C Capital reserve The capital reserve is a non-distributable reserve created when the shares issued pursuant to the share exchange agreements prior to the Companys listing were recorded at fair value.
To the extent the Company receives dividends from Kazakhmys LLCs profits created in the period prior to the share exchange, the capital reserve is realised through a transfer to distributable retained earnings.
ii C Capital redemption reserve As a result of the share buy-back programme, transfers are made from share capital to the capital redemption reserve based on the nominal value of the shares cancelled.
COMPANY INTERCOMPANY BORROWINGS At 31 December 2008, intercompany borrowings of the Company include an amount of $2,046 million due to Kazakhmys Finance PLC, the Groups financing company, which was advanced to the Company for the acquisition of the Kazakhmys Power business and incremental shares in ENRC.
This amount is non-interest bearing and is repayable on demand.
Intercompany borrowings of the Company also includes an amount of $1,500 million due to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, the Groups UK sales operations, which was put in place following the novation of the previous loan payable to Kazakhmys LLC.
COMPANY TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES $ million 2008 2007 Payables to related parties 60 118 Interest payable to related parties 6 Trade receivables received in advance 9 Other payables and accrued expenses 3 20 63 153 44.
COMPANY MOVEMENT IN NET LIQUID FUNDS DEBT At At 1 January Non-cash 31 December 1 $ million 2008 Cash flow movements 2008 Cash and cash equivalents 134 3 137 Intercompany borrowings 1,265 2,427 146 3,546 Net debt 1,131 2,424 146 3,409 At At 1 January 31 December $ million 2007 Cash flow 2007 Cash and cash equivalents 429 295 134 Intercompany borrowings 1,265 1,265 Net liquid funds debt 429 1,560 1,131 1 Non-cash movements comprise $208 million of dividends receivable from Kazakhmys LLC that were offset against the loan payable to Kazakhmys LLC less $62 million of capitalised interest.
128 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements 45.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The UK sales function was transferred to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, on 1 January 2008 so the financial risks borne by the Company have significantly reduced during the year.
The Company has a limited exposure to foreign currency, credit and interest rate risks and these are shown below.
The Company has no exposure to commodity, liquidity or price risks.
a F Foreign currency risk The Company has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures arise from transactions in currencies other than the Companys functional currency which is the US dollar.
Prior to the Group reorganisation in which the Companys interest in Kazakhmys LLC was transferred to an intermediate holding company, the primary currency giving rise to this foreign currency risk was the Kazakhstan tenge as a result of dividends receivable from Kazakhmys LLC within other operating income.
The Company is also exposed, to a lesser degree, to corporate costs included within trade and other receivables and trade and other payables which are primarily denominated in UK sterling.
The Company generally does not enter into hedging positions in respect of its exposure to foreign currency risk.
i F Foreign currency and balance sheet account profile Following the transfer of the UK sales function to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd on 1 January 2008, the Company does not have any significant foreign currency risk.
The Companys exposure to foreign currency risk for 2007 based on notional amounts is shown below: $ million UK sterling KZT 2007 Trade and other receivables 143 Trade and other payables 13 13 143 ii S Sensitivity analysis A 10 per cent strengthening of the US dollar against the following currencies at 31 December 2007 would have increased decreased profit after tax by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant: 2007 $ million Profit loss KZT 14 UK sterling 1 b C Credit risk The UK sales function was transferred to Kazakhmys Sales Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, on 1 January 2008 and therefore the Company no longer has any significant credit risk with regards to customers from that date.
Any remaining credit risk for the Company relates to cash and cash equivalents.
i E Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 December was: $ million 2008 2007 Trade and other receivables 22 251 Cash and cash equivalents 137 134 159 385 ii R Risk for trade receivables by geographical regions The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic area was: $ million 2008 2007 Europe 22 7 China 97 147 Kazakhstan 22 251 www.
com 129 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 45.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED c IInterest rate risk The Company has limited balances subject to interest rate risk.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities to interest rate risk is as follows: At 31 December 2008 Non-interest $ million Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Trade and other receivables 22 22 Cash and cash equivalents 137 137 Total financial assets 137 22 159 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 63 63 Intercompany borrowings 3,546 3,546 Total financial liabilities 3,609 3,609 At 31 December 2007 Non-interest $ million Floating rate Fixed rate bearing Total Financial assets Trade and other receivables 251 251 Cash and cash equivalents 134 134 Total financial assets 134 251 385 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 153 153 Intercompany borrowings 1,265 1,265 Total financial liabilities 1,265 153 1,418 All the Companys interest-bearing monetary assets and liabilities are denominated in US dollars and have a maturity of less than one year.
d F Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements: 2008 2007 Carrying Carrying $ million value Fair value value Fair value Trade and other receivables 22 22 251 251 Cash and cash equivalents 137 137 134 134 Intercompany borrowings 3,546 3,546 1,265 1,265 Trade and other payables 63 63 153 152 3,450 3,450 1,033 1,032 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and intercompany borrowings approximate to their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
e C Capital management The over-riding objectives of the Companys capital management policy are to safeguard and support the business as a going concern through the commodity cycle and to maintain an optimal capital structure with a view to maximising returns to shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders by reducing the Companys cost of capital.
130 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financial Statements 46.
COMPANY RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES a T Transactions with related parties The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties for the relevant financial period.
Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases owed by owed to related from related related related $ million parties parties parties parties Kazakhmys Corporation LLC 2008 3 2 2007 5 3,111 147 1,389 Kazakhmys Finance PLC 2008 2,046 Kazakhmys Sales Limited 2008 20 1,550 1 Other Group companies 2008 10 Companies related to Chairman see note 36 2007 806 1 Includes Kazakhmys Services Limited and Kazakhmys Holding B. V. As explained in note 36, the Government became a related party on 24 July 2008.
There were no related party transactions between the Company and the Government following this date other than payment of the Governments share of the interim dividend on 24 October 2008 of $11 million.
The Company received dividends of $150 million from Kazakhmys Sales Limited and $94 million from Kazakmys Eurasia B. V. during the year.
In addition, the Company received a dividend of $12 million from ENRC, the Groups associated undertaking, in November 2008. b T Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Prices for related party transactions are determined by the parties on an ongoing basis depending on the nature of the transaction.
SUBSIDIARIES The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and the principal subsidiaries listed in the following table: Equity Equity interest at interest at 31 December 31 December Operating Principal Country of 2008 2007 activity division incorporation % % 1 Kazakhmys Corporation LLC Mining and processing copper Kazakhmys Copper Kazakhstan 99.7 99.7 MKM Mansfelder Kupfer 1 1 und Messing GmbH Copper processing MKM Germany 100.0 100.0 1 Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP Electric power generation Kazakhmys Power Kazakhstan 100.0 1 Maikuben-West LLP Coal mining Kazakhmys Power Kazakhstan 100.0 1 1 Dank LLP Mining and processing gold Kazakhmys Gold Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 Charaltyn JSC Exploration, mining 1 1 and processing gold Kazakhmys Gold Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Andas Altyn LLP Mining and processing gold Kazakhmys Gold Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 CA Minerals LLP Silver exploration Kazakhmys Gold Tajikistan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Kazakhmys Gold Kyrgyzstan LLP Gold exploration Kazakhmys Gold Kyrgyzstan 100.0 100.0 1 1 Kazakhmys Petroleum LLP Oil and gas exploration Kazakhmys Petroleum Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 Kazakhmys Sales Limited Sales and logistics Kazakhmys Copper United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Kazakhmys Finance PLC Group financing N A United Kingdom 100.0 1 Indirectly held by the Company.
com 131 Financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 48.
COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES a O Operating lease commitments The Company has the following total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: $ million 2008 2007 Within one year 2 After one year but not more than five years 8 More than five years 16 26 The operating lease commitment relates to the Companys head office in London.
During the year the lease on the premises was assigned to Kazakhmys Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
b G Guarantees The Company is the guarantor for the following: as explained in note 30, the Company, together with Kazakhmys LLC and Kazakhmys Sales Limited, is a guarantor of the $2,100 million pre-export finance debt facility: as explained in note 34 e, Kazakhmys Finance PLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, has taken out interest rate swaps to hedge against interest rate changes arising on the pre-export finance debt facility.
The Company is a guarantor for the interest rate swap contracts, and the operating lease on the Companys head office in London.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE a C Completion of the AES management contract at Ekibastuz GRES-1 and Maikuben West coal mine On 20 March 2009, the Group announced that it has agreed the early completion of the management contract with AES, so that management of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant and Maikuben West coal mine will transfer to the Group.
The early completion agreement includes an earnout of $80 million for the 2008 financial year payable in April 2009, and a single reduced payment of $102 million to be paid in January 2010. b R Revolving credit facility On 30 March 2009, Kazakhmys Finance PLC signed an agreement with a syndicate of banks to extend $150 million of the unsecured revolving credit facility see note 30 to 31 March 2010.
132 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008
