NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 General information c Basis of consolidation Keller Group plc the parent or the Company is a company The consolidated financial statements consolidate the incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act accounts of the parent and its subsidiary undertakings 1985.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in collectively the Group made up to 31 December each year.
pounds sterling rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control the functional currency of the parent.
Foreign operations are exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Where subsidiary undertakings were acquired or sold during the year, the 2 Principal accounting policies accounts include the results for the part of the year for which a Statement of compliance they were subsidiary undertakings using the acquisition The consolidated financial statements have been prepared method of accounting.
and approved by the directors in accordance with International Intra-group balances, and any unrealised income and expenses Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in The Company has elected to prepare its parent company preparing the consolidated financial statements.
financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 68 to 73. d Jointly controlled operations From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with b Basis of preparation other parties.
These fall under the category of jointly controlled The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost operations as defined by IAS 31.
In accordance with IAS 31, basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated the Group accounts for its own share of sales, profits, assets, at their fair value.
The carrying value of hedged items are liabilities and cash flows measured according to the terms of remeasured to fair value in respect of the hedged risk.
the agreements covering the jointly controlled operations.
Except as noted below, these accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these e Revenue recognition consolidated financial statements and have been applied Revenue represents the fair value of work done on construction consistently by subsidiaries.
contracts performed during the year on behalf of customers or The Company has adopted IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and the value of goods or services delivered to customers.
The adoption of IFRIC 11 IFRS accordance with IAS 11, contract revenue and expenses are 2 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the statements.
contract as soon as the outcome of a construction contract The Company did not adopt the following standard and can be estimated reliably.
amendments to standards which were available for optional The fair value of work done is based upon estimates of the final early adoption: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: amendments to expected outcome of contracts and the proportion of work IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, which has been completed.
Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate: amendments to IAS 1 In the nature of the Groups business, the results for the year Presentation of Financial Statements: A Revised Presentation: include adjustments to the outcome of construction contracts, amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment: Vesting including jointly controlled operations, completed in prior Conditions and Cancellations and amendment to IAS 23 years arising from claims from customers or third parties and Borrowing Costs.
The Company does not expect the adoption claims on customers or third parties for variations to the of the above standard or amendments to standards to have original contract.
a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Provision against claims from customers or third parties is In order to provide further clarity of disclosure, certain items made in the year in which the Group becomes aware that a previously included within trade and other payables and other claim may arise.
Income from claims on customers or third non-current liabilities have now been presented in separate parties is not recognised until the outcome can be reliably balance sheet lines as current and non-current provisions measured.
Comparatives have been re-presented accordingly.
This change in presentation has had no impact on results or Where it is probable that a loss will arise on a contract, full total equity.
provision for this loss is made when the Group becomes aware that a loss may arise.
Revenue in respect of goods and services is recognised as the goods and services are delivered.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Keller Group plc 47
