NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 2009 Annual General Meeting ii the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally of Keller Group plc incorporated and registered in England and authorised for the purposes of Section 94 of the Act to allot Wales with company number 02442580 will be held at the offices equity securities of the Company in connection with a rights of Smithfield Consultants Limited, 10 Aldersgate Street, London issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity EC1A 4HJ on 19 May 2009 at 10.00am for the transaction securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act respectively of the following business: attributed to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them up to an aggregate Ordinary business nominal amount of 2,210,607 during the period 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the commencing on the date of the passing of this resolution Statement of Accounts for the year ended 31 December and expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General 2008 together with the Independent Auditors Report Meeting of the Company, provided that the Company may thereon.
make at any time prior to the expiry of such authority any 2 To declare a final dividend of 13.8p per ordinary share, such offer or agreement which would or might require relevant dividend to be paid on 29 May 2009 to members on the securities of the Company to be allotted after the expiry of register at the close of business on 1 May 2009. such authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities 3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority ended 31 December 2008. hereby conferred had not expired: and 4 To elect as a Director Mr R A Franklin, who has been iii all previous authorisations given by the Company in general re-appointed by the board since the last Annual General meeting or otherwise pursuant to Section 80 of the Act be Meeting.
and are hereby revoked to the extent not previously 5 To re-elect as a Director Mr P Lpez Jimnez who retires exercised.
10 THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 9 above, the 6 To re-elect as a Director Mr R M Rubright who retires Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section by rotation.
95 of the Act to allot equity securities of the Company for cash within the terms of the authority set out in resolution 9 7 To re-elect as a Director Dr J M West who, having served above as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such on the Board as a Non-executive Director for eleven years, allotment provided that such power shall be limited to: offers himself for re-election.
i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights 8 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors to the Company issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares in proportion and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
as nearly as may be to their respective holdings of such To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions shares subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements of which resolution numbered 9 will be proposed as an ordinary as the Directors may consider expedient to deal with resolution and resolutions numbered 10, 11 and 12 will be fractional entitlements or legal or practical considerations proposed as special resolutions: arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements 9 THAT: of any regulatory body: and i the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i of this authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal Act 1985 the Act to allot relevant securities as defined in value of 331,591 and shall expire at the conclusion of the Section 80 2 of the Act of the Company up to an aggregate next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the nominal amount of 2,210,607 during the period Directors may, before such expiry, make an offer or commencing on the date of the passing of this resolution agreement which would or might require equity securities and expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot Meeting of the Company, provided that the Company may equity securities pursuant to such offer or agreement as make at any time prior to the expiry of such authority any if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
offer or agreement which would or might require relevant 11 THAT a general meeting of the Company other than an securities of the Company to be allotted after the expiry of Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than such authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities 14 days notice.
in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired: Notice of Annual General Meeting Keller Group plc 75 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 12 THAT the Company be and is hereby granted general and Notes unconditional authority pursuant to Section 166 of the Act to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the 1.
Resolution 4 Election of Mr R A Franklin Act of up to in aggregate 6,631,823 of its own ordinary Mr Franklin was first appointed to the Board in July 2007. shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary However, due to an administrative error, Mr Franklin did not stand shares representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary for election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and now offers share capital at the date of this notice provided that: himself for election for the first time.
i the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to not more than 5% above the average 2.
Resolutions 9 and 10 Authority to allot shares of the middle market quotations for the shares taken from the Under the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors of the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five Company may only allot unissued shares if authorised to do business days before the day on which the purchase is made so under Section 80 of the Act.
Section 89 of the Act prevents exclusive of expenses payable by the Company: allotments for cash, other than to existing shareholders in ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 10p: and proportion to their existing holdings, unless the Directors are iii the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at specifically authorised.
This gives existing shareholders what the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the are known as pre-emption rights.
Company, except that the Company may, before such expiry, The articles of association give a general authority to the enter into a contract for the purchase of its own shares which Directors to allot unissued shares and disapply these pre-emption would or may require to be completed or executed wholly rights.
Passing resolutions 9 and 10 will extend the Directors or partly after the expiration of this authority as if the said flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when authority had not expired.
opportunities arise, to issue new shares.
The Directors will be able to issue new shares up to a nominal By order of the Board value of 2,210,607 which is equal to approximately 33.3% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 2 March 2009.
Additionally, in accordance with recently issued guidance from the Association of Jackie Holman Registered office: British Insurers, the Directors will be able to issue further shares Secretary Capital House, 25 Chapel Street up to a nominal value of 2,210,607 to existing shareholders in 2 March 2009 London NW1 5DH proportion to their holdings.
The Directors will also be able either to issue shares for cash, other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, up to a maximum nominal amount of 331,591 representing about 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 2 March 2009 or, other than for cash, in a rights issue without prior consultation with shareholders.
These arrangements are intended to ensure that the interests of existing shareholders are protected so that, for example, in the event of a share issue which is not a rights issue, the proportionate interests of existing shareholders could not, without their agreement, be reduced by more than 5% by the issue of new shares for cash to new shareholders.
The Board has no current plans to allot ordinary shares and does not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital, other than in a rights issue, in any three-year period.
The authority sought by resolutions 9 and 10 will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, but could be varied or withdrawn by agreement of shareholders at an intervening general meeting.
Resolution 11 Calling a general meeting on 14 days notice This resolution is intended to allow the Company to take advantage of an opt-out in the EU Shareholder Rights Directive Directive 2007 36 EC, which will allow the Company to retain a 14-day notice period for Company meetings other than Annual General Meetings.
Under the Directive, listed companies must provide 21 days notice of a general meeting, unless the Company offers the facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means that is accessible to all shareholders, and shareholders Notice of Annual General Meeting 76 Keller Group plc have approved the holding of general meetings on 14 clear days 6c CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies notice.
The Directive is due to come into effect on 3 August 2009. through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service Passing resolution 11 will mean that the Company can call a may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST meeting other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 days notice.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their 4.
Resolution 12 Purchase of the Companys own shares CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able This resolution grants a limited authority to the Company to to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
purchase through the market up to 10% of the issued ordinary In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using share capital.
The resolution specifies the maximum and the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST minimum prices at which the shares may be bought at the date message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly of the notice.
The authority sought will expire at the conclusion authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland of the next Annual General Meeting.
Limiteds formerly CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as 5.
Record date described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an the Company as at 6.00pm on 17 May 2009 or, in the event that amendment to the instruction given to a previously the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members as at appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so 6.00pm on the date that is two days before any adjourned as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by no later meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in than 10.00am on 17 May 2009.
No such message received respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
Changes to entries in the register of members after 6.00pm For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the on 17 May 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, time as determined by the timestamp applied to the after 6.00pm on the date that is two days before any adjourned message by the CREST Applications Host from which the meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to person to attend or vote at the meeting.
CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through 6.
Proxies CREST should be communicated to the appointee through 6a A shareholder is entitled to appoint one or more persons as other means.
proxies to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of sponsors or voting service provider s should note that the Company.
The appointment of a proxy will not preclude Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available a shareholder from attending and voting in person at the special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
To appoint more than one proxy Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply shareholders will need to complete a separate proxy form in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Copies of additional proxy forms can be responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take obtained from the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, by or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member telephoning 0871 384 2264 or shareholders may photocopy or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service the form of proxy indicating on each copy the name of the provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting proxy to be appointed and the number of shares in respect service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary of which the proxy is appointed.
The total votes cast and in to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the respect whereof abstention is recorded by a shareholder or CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, his duly appointed proxies may not, in aggregate, exceed the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST total number of the votes exercisable by that shareholder in sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in respect of ordinary shares in the Company of which he is the particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual holder.
All forms of proxy should be returned together in the concerning practical limitations of the CREST system same envelope.
Shareholders can only appoint a proxy using and timings.
the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to the The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy proxy form.
Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a 6b A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid, it must be of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. completed, signed and sent to the offices of the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL so as to arrive no later than 10.00am on 17 May 2009 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, no later than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Keller Group plc 77 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 7.
Place of meeting 7a Under the Companies Act 2006, a corporate shareholder is The map below shows the location of the offices of Smithfield entitled to appoint more than one corporate representative Consultants Limited, where the meeting will take place.
and all of those appointed can attend the meeting of the Company.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the Annual General Meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the Annual General Meeting so that: 7b If a corporate shareholder has appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative with instructions to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the Chairman and the Chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and 7c If more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the Chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of representation letter if the Chairman is being appointed as described in 7b above.
Directors service contracts and biographical details Copies of all the Directors service contracts or memoranda of the terms thereof: the register of interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company: and the memorandum, current articles of association and proposed new articles of association will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Directors biographical details are set out on pages 28 and 29.
Notice of Annual General Meeting 78 Keller Group plc
