NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Significant accounting policies c Investments These financial statements have been prepared under the Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where historical cost convention in accordance with applicable appropriate, provisions for impairment.
accounting standards of UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
d Deferred taxation The Company has taken the exception granted under Except where otherwise required by FRS 19, full provision SI 2005 2417 not to disclose non-audit fees paid to its without discounting is made for all timing differences which auditors.
have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently.
e Tangible fixed assets The principal accounting policies adopted under UK GAAP Tangible fixed assets principally consist of leasehold are the same as the Groups accounting policies under improvements which are depreciated over the term International Financial Reporting Standards except for those of the lease.
listed below: 2 Employees a Basis of accounting The Company has no employees other than the Directors.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company Directors remuneration and details of their share-based as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985. payments are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37. b Retirement benefits The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme, 3 Dividends paid and also makes payments into defined contribution schemes Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares are disclosed for employees.
in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
The liability in respect of the defined benefit scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, calculated using the projected unit credit method, less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 17 recognising the current service cost and interest on scheme liabilities in the profit and loss account, and actuarial gains and losses in reserves.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Keller Group plc 69
