NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 General information c Basis of consolidation Keller Group plc the parent or the Company is a company The consolidated financial statements consolidate the incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act accounts of the parent and its subsidiary undertakings 1985.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in collectively the Group made up to 31 December each year.
pounds sterling rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control the functional currency of the parent.
Foreign operations are exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Where subsidiary undertakings were acquired or sold during the year, the 2 Principal accounting policies accounts include the results for the part of the year for which a Statement of compliance they were subsidiary undertakings using the acquisition The consolidated financial statements have been prepared method of accounting.
and approved by the directors in accordance with International Intra-group balances, and any unrealised income and expenses Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in The Company has elected to prepare its parent company preparing the consolidated financial statements.
financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 68 to 73. d Jointly controlled operations From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with b Basis of preparation other parties.
These fall under the category of jointly controlled The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost operations as defined by IAS 31.
In accordance with IAS 31, basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated the Group accounts for its own share of sales, profits, assets, at their fair value.
The carrying value of hedged items are liabilities and cash flows measured according to the terms of remeasured to fair value in respect of the hedged risk.
the agreements covering the jointly controlled operations.
Except as noted below, these accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these e Revenue recognition consolidated financial statements and have been applied Revenue represents the fair value of work done on construction consistently by subsidiaries.
contracts performed during the year on behalf of customers or The Company has adopted IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and the value of goods or services delivered to customers.
The adoption of IFRIC 11 IFRS accordance with IAS 11, contract revenue and expenses are 2 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the statements.
contract as soon as the outcome of a construction contract The Company did not adopt the following standard and can be estimated reliably.
amendments to standards which were available for optional The fair value of work done is based upon estimates of the final early adoption: IFRS 8 Operating Segments: amendments to expected outcome of contracts and the proportion of work IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, which has been completed.
Jointly-Controlled Entity or Associate: amendments to IAS 1 In the nature of the Groups business, the results for the year Presentation of Financial Statements: A Revised Presentation: include adjustments to the outcome of construction contracts, amendment to IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment: Vesting including jointly controlled operations, completed in prior Conditions and Cancellations and amendment to IAS 23 years arising from claims from customers or third parties and Borrowing Costs.
The Company does not expect the adoption claims on customers or third parties for variations to the of the above standard or amendments to standards to have original contract.
a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
Provision against claims from customers or third parties is In order to provide further clarity of disclosure, certain items made in the year in which the Group becomes aware that a previously included within trade and other payables and other claim may arise.
Income from claims on customers or third non-current liabilities have now been presented in separate parties is not recognised until the outcome can be reliably balance sheet lines as current and non-current provisions measured.
Comparatives have been re-presented accordingly.
This change in presentation has had no impact on results or Where it is probable that a loss will arise on a contract, full total equity.
provision for this loss is made when the Group becomes aware that a loss may arise.
Revenue in respect of goods and services is recognised as the goods and services are delivered.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Keller Group plc 47 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Principal accounting policies continued j Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently f Leases payable and the deferred tax charge.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards Provision is made for current tax on taxable profits for the year.
of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported as operating leases.
in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
are capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of fair value or The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates present value of minimum lease payments and depreciated in that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The capital balance sheet date.
element of the leasing commitment is included as obligations under finance leases.
The rentals payable are apportioned Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying between interest, which is charged to the income statement, amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and and capital, which reduces the outstanding obligation.
the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet Amounts payable under operating leases are charged to liability method.
contract work in progress or operating costs on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Full provision is made for deferred tax on temporary differences in line with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is considered likely that they will be utilised g Foreign currencies against future taxable profits.
Balance sheet items in foreign currencies are translated into Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to sterling at closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is Income statements and cash flows of overseas subsidiary realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates of statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited exchange for the year.
directly to equity, in which case the related deferred tax is also Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening dealt with in equity.
net assets and income statements at closing and average rates of exchange respectively are dealt with as movements in equity, along with changes in fair values of associated net k Property, plant and equipment investment hedges.
All other exchange differences are charged Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less to the income statement.
The exchange rates used in respect of principal currencies are: l Depreciation 2008 2007 Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
US dollar: average for period 1.86 2.00 US dollar: period end 1.45 2.00 Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated Euro: average for period 1.26 1.46 residual value of property, plant and equipment by reference Euro: period end 1.03 1.36 to their estimated useful lives using the straight line method.
Australian dollar: average for period 2.19 2.39 The rates of depreciation used are: Australian dollar: period end 2.10 2.28 Buildings 2% Long life plant and equipment 8% h Interest income and expense Short life plant and equipment 12% All interest income and expense is recognised in profit or Motor vehicles 25% loss in the period in which it is incurred using the effective Computers 33% interest method.
The cost of leased properties is depreciated by equal instalments over the period of the lease or 50 years, whichever i Employee benefit costs is the shorter.
The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension arrangements, and also makes payments into defined contribution schemes for employees.
The liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, calculated using the projected unit credit method, less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The Group has taken the option to apply the requirements of IAS 19 revised, recognising the current service cost and interest on scheme liabilities in the income statement, and actuarial gains and losses in full in the period in which they occur in equity.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 48 Keller Group plc 2 Principal accounting policies continued p Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and estimated m Goodwill and other intangible assets net realisable value with due allowance being made for Goodwill obsolete or slow-moving items.
Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the difference Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct between the fair value of the purchase consideration and labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in the fair value of the identifiable net assets of the subsidiary bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
undertaking at the date of acquisition, is capitalised as an intangible asset.
The fair value of identifiable net assets in excess of the fair q Financial instruments value of purchase consideration is credited to the income Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on statement in the year of acquisition.
the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for Derivative financial instruments are accounted for in impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that accordance with IAS 39 and recognised initially at fair value.
the goodwill may be impaired in accordance with IAS 36, with The Group uses currency and interest rate swaps to manage any impairment losses being recognised immediately in the financial risk.
Interest charges and financial liabilities are stated income statement.
Goodwill arising prior to 1 January 1998 after taking account of these swaps.
was taken directly to equity in the year in which it arose.
The Group uses these swaps and other hedges to mitigate Such goodwill has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
exposures to both foreign currency and interest rates.
Other intangible assets Hedges are accounted for as follows: Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include purchased Cash flow hedges: The effective part of any gain or loss licences, patents, trademarks, backlog and non-compete on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in the hedging agreements.
Intangible assets are capitalised at cost and reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised amortised on a straight line basis over their useful economic immediately in the income statement.
The associated lives from the date that they are available for use and are cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment in the income statement in the same period or periods during losses.
Useful economic lives do not exceed three years.
which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of the derivative accounted for initially at fair value.
are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged and any n Impairment of assets excluding goodwill gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised immediately At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying in the income statement.
amounts of its assets to determine whether there is any Net investment hedges: The effective portion of the change in indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised directly in the If any such indication exists the recoverable amount of the translation reserve.
Any ineffectiveness is recognised asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the immediately in the income statement.
r Trade receivables o Capital work in progress Trade receivables do not carry any interest, are initially Capital work in progress represents expenditure on property, recognised at fair value and are carried at amortised cost plant and equipment in the course of construction.
Transfers as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated are made to other property, plant and equipment categories irrecoverable amounts.
when the assets are available for use.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Keller Group plc 49 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Principal accounting policies continued y Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the consolidated financial statements s Trade payables in conformity with IFRS requires management to make Trade payables are not interest bearing, are initially recognised judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the at fair value and are carried at amortised cost.
application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated t Provisions assumptions are based on historical experience and various A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making a past event and where it is probable that an outflow will the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities be required to settle the obligation.
that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
u Financial guarantees The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on Where Group companies enter into financial guarantee an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are contracts to guarantee the indebtedness or obligations of other recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the companies within the Group, these are considered to be revision affects only that and prior periods, or in the period of insurance arrangements, and accounted for as such.
In this the revision and future periods if the revision affects both respect, the guarantee contract is treated as a contingent current and future periods.
liability until such time as it becomes probable that the The key estimates and judgements in drawing up the Groups guarantor will be required to make a payment under the consolidated financial statements are in connection with guarantee.
construction contracts in progress, claims on construction contracts, the valuation of pension liabilities, fair values of v Share-based payment net assets acquired in business combinations and goodwill Charges for employee services received in exchange for shareimpairment tests.
based payment have been made for all options granted after The Groups approach to estimates and judgements relating 7 November 2002, that had not vested by 1 January 2005, to construction contracts and claims is set out in e above.
The main factors considered when making those estimates Options granted under the Groups employee share schemes and judgements include the likely outcome of negotiations are equity settled.
The fair value of such options has been of variations, expectations regarding the recovery of any cost calculated using a stochastic model, based upon publicly over-runs, the likelihood of successful claims by or against the available market data, and is charged to the income statement Group, including the potential for liquidated damages, and the over the performance period with a corresponding increase extent to which any claims against the Group are covered by in equity.
Note 31 sets out the principal assumptions underlying the valuation of the Groups defined benefit liabilities which include w Segmental reporting the discount rate, expected return on assets, rate of inflation A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that and mortality rates.
These assumptions were set on the advice is engaged either in providing products or services business of the relevant schemes actuaries having regard to current segment, or in providing products or services within a market conditions, past history and factors specific to particular economic environment geographical segment, and the schemes.
which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
Key uncertainties in estimating the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations include the market value of tangible assets and the identification and measurement of x Dividends separable intangible assets.
Interim dividends are recorded in the Groups consolidated As explained in note 13, goodwill has been assessed for financial statements when paid.
Final dividends are recorded impairment by comparing its carrying value with the present in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period value of the discounted cash flows expected to be generated in which they receive shareholder approval.
by the relevant cash generating units.
Principal areas of uncertainty in respect of valuations are around forecast cash flows and the discount rate.
The discount rates used are based on the weighted average cost of capital of comparable entities, adjusted as necessary to reflect the financing and risk associated with the asset being tested.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 50 Keller Group plc
