PRInCIPaL JOInt aRRanGEmEnts anD JOInt vEntUREs Joint arrangements Joint ventures Construction Interest held The following joint arrangements, in which the Group participation is Construction between 33% and 50%, operate in the United Kingdom: Incorporated and operating in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Besix Kier a joint arrangement between Kier Construction and Saudi Comedat Co. 25% NV Besix SA.
Long-term concession holding under KMI Plus a joint arrangement between Kier Construction, the Private Finance Initiative J Murphy & Sons Limited, Interserve Project Services Limited and Mouchel Parkman Services Limited Academy Services Holdings Limited 50% Academy Services Norwich Holdings Limited 50% The following joint arrangements, in which the Group participation is Academy Services Oldham Holdings Limited 50% between 40% and 50%, operate overseas, in the territory indicated: Academy Services Sheffield Holdings Limited 50% Dubai Academy Services Waltham Forest Holdings Limited 50% Leighton Kier a joint arrangement between Kier Construction ASK Holdings Limited 50% and Gulf Leighton LLC.
Information Resources Holdings Limited 50% Information Resources Oldham Holdings Limited 50% Jamaica Justice Support Services North Kent Holdings Limited 42.5% Besix Kier a joint arrangement between Kier Construction Prospect Healthcare Hinchingbrooke Holdings Limited 50% and NV Besix SA.
Prospect Healthcare Ipswich Holdings Limited 50% Kier CCC a joint arrangement between Kier Construction Prospect Healthcare Reading Holdings Limited 50% and Commercial Contracting Company of Commercial property development San Antonio, Inc. Kier Developments Limited 50% Suriname Kier Warth Limited 50% Kier CCC a joint arrangement between Kier Construction and Commercial Contracting Company of Notes: San Antonio, Inc. i Joint arrangements are contracted agreements to co-operate on a specific project which is an extension of the Groups existing Romania business.
Joint ventures are ongoing businesses carrying on their Mivan Kier a joint arrangement between Mivan Limited and own trade.
Kier Construction ii Except where otherwise stated the companies are incorporated and Commercial property development operate in the United Kingdom.
The Group has a 25% participation in a joint arrangement in England between Kier Property and Norwich Union Life and Pensions Limited.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 87
