GLOSSARY AAMS Gaming Machines Amministrazione autonoma dei monopoli di stato the Italian regulatory Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including old FOBT authority.
content and B3 content e. g. 500 payout jackpot games, as defined by the 2005 Gambling Act.
Adjusted Cost per Acquisition Total of all online and offline recruitment marketing spend including Gross Win promotions and bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate expenses relating Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission to deals where affiliates are paid a one-off fee for each sign-up and all i. e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
bonus costs except those relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates Net Gaming Revenue divided by the aggregate number of real money sign-ups from non-affiliate Gross win less freebets and other fair value adjustments sources and the number of real money sign-ups through affiliates that are plus commissions.
Net Revenue AMLD amusement machine licence duty Gross win less fair value adjustments e. g. fair value of reward points, An annual duty payment relating to gaming machines.
The rate of duty free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT and associate income.
payable varies according to machine category.
Average Monthly Active Player Days Ladbrokes Loyalty scheme which awards customers with a point for every The sum of, for all Unique Active Players in the period, the number amount staked Over The Counter.
These points are then accumulated and of days they have played during the period.
can be redeemed for free bets, odds enhancements or win bonuses.
AWPs Amusement with Prizes machine Operating profit Electronic machine into which customers insert coins to play games Profit before finance costs and tax.
Operating margin Category B2 gaming machine Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net revenue.
Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum prize Real Money Sign-up of 500.
A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an account Category B3 gaming machine with the Company.
To address the issues posed by shared wallets.
Gaming machine with maximum stake of 1 and maximum prize of 500.
Customers are categorised between lines of business according to Betting-in-Play where they first register on the gaming site.
Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on outcomes during Responsibility in Gambling Trust RiGT a live event.
A charity that funds treatment, education and research related to Cost per Acquisition problem gambling.
Total of all online and offline marketing spend including promotions and SIS Satellite Information Services bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate expenses relating to deals where Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television affiliates are paid a one-off fee for each sign-up and all bonus costs except programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the UK, those relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates divided by the Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
aggregate of the number of real money sign-ups from non-affiliate sources Special dividend and the number of real money sign-ups through affiliates that are paid A one-time distribution of funds to shareholders.
Unique Active Player EBITDA A player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager in the period.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Yield per Unique Active Player FOBTs or Fixed Odds Betting Terminals Net Gaming Revenue divided by the number of Unique Active Players Computerised machines which allow players to bet on the outcome in the period.
of various games and events with fixed odds, including roulette.
Also referred to as B2 machines.
Gambling Act The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation governing gambling regulations in Great Britain.
GamCare A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those with gambling-related problems.
Gambling Commission Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and lotteries.
It is also responsible for the regulation of betting and remote gambling, as well as helping to protect children and vulnerable people.
116 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 LADBROKES TV ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN TV advertising campaign first aired in March and again in October, as part of the wider eGaming strategy, to attract new players.
Ladbrokes Designed and produced by Merchant in collaboration with Ammunition.
Printed by The Midas Press.
online Games business This report is printed on Era Silk paper.
The paper contains 50% fide-inked post-consumer waste and virgin wood fibre from well-managed forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
It is manufactured at a mill that is certified to ISO14001 and EMAS environmental standards.
grew net gaming revenue The mill uses pulps that are elemental chlorine free ECF and the inks in printing this report are all vegetable-based.
Printed at The Midas Press FSC certified and by 65.1% during 2008.
LADBROKES PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 SIR IAN ROBINSON POSITIONING LADBROKES FOR THE FUTURE CHRISTOPHER BELL DELIVERING DURING THE DOWNTURN LADBROKES BUSINESS REVIEW MAXIMISING THE UK ESTATE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DRIVING THE TOPLINE IN EGAMING EXPANDING INTERNATIONALLY Ladbrokes plc Imperial House Imperial Drive Rayners Lane Harrow Middlesex HA2 7JW Telephone: 44 0 20 8868 8899 www.
