Key Performance Indicators KPIs Group Key Performance Indicators KPIs Title fide nition Rationale Revenue for each market sector Financial Services, A balanced market sector pro le with a goal that Balanced market sector pro le Energy and Utilities, Telecoms and Media, Industry, no sector accounts for less than 10% or more than Distribution and Transport IDT, Public Sector as a 30% ensures that Group revenue and pro t is percentage of Group revenue.
less susceptible to any one segment.
A sizeable `` revenue base in each sector also justi es continuing investment in domain expertise which differentiates Logica versus its peers, winning business and underpinning pro tability.
Orders booked in a period divided by revenues in Provides visibility of future revenue.
A book to bill Book to bill the period.
This has been reported for the first time above 100% means that the Company continues to through 2008 across all of Logicas businesses.
build good order pipeline for future delivery.
Our goal for 2009 is to supplement this information with order `` backlog which will provide a consolidated view of future orders.
Percentage growth in revenue in the current year Provides a measure of our ability to grow revenue.
Pro forma revenue growth compared to revenues on a like-for-like basis in This demonstrates our ability to take advantage the previous year, for example, taking into account of market growth, to use scale to generate market `` the impact of acquisitions, divestments and share and to leverage our global delivery capability currency movements.
Revenue from outsourcing contracts as a percentage Longer term value-added outsourcing contracts Percentage of revenue from of Group revenue.
represent a more predictable revenue stream, outsourcing assuming good project and risk management.
The investment in outsourcing announced in 2008 is aimed at growing revenue from outsourcing faster `` than overall Group revenue growth.
Our goal is to grow revenue from outsourcing to 35% of total revenue from the 2007 level of 32%.
Adjusted operating pro t as a percentage of revenue.
This measure is used to compare quality of Adjusted operating margin Adjusted operating pro t is operating pro t excluding earnings with those of our peers and to determine the results of discontinued operations, exceptional performance against our Programme for Growth items and amortisation of intangible assets initially targets see pages 8 to 9 and medium-term strategic `` recognised at fair value in a business combination, objectives of delivering sustainable double digit whenever such items occur.
Net earnings attributable to equity holders of the EPS is an important measure for shareholders of the Adjusted earnings per share EPS parent company excluding, whenever such items earnings generated by the business, after the effect occur, the result of discontinued operations, of interest and tax.
exceptional items, mark-to-market gains and losses on financial assets and financial liabilities designated at fair value through pro t or loss, and amortisation `` of intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business combination, net of tax where applicable, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the period.
The net cash in ow from trading operations divided A measure of the ability to generate cash from Cash conversion by adjusted operating pro t see adjusted operating operations.
The ability to convert pro t to cash is margin KPI.
based on an internal discipline of focus on cash and the strength of the internal collections mechanism, and is a proxy for strength of relationships with `` customers.
Cash conversion is an important component of free cash ow and therefore an important determinant of the Companys ability to repay its debt.
144 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Key Performance Indicators KPIs Title fide nition Rationale Annualised voluntary attrition measured by number Retention of employees, alongside ongoing training Employee attrition of voluntary leavers as a percentage of the total and development, allows us to ensure that we are employee population.
There will always be a natural maintaining and upgrading the domain expertise level of voluntary attrition due to people retiring, which is a key differentiator for Logica.
It is also decisions to change careers and a competitive a measure of our managers ability to retain their marketplace.
employees in a market where there is signi cant `` movement of employees, particularly when the market is buoyant.
In a slowing market, slowing attrition can be an important indicator of employees concern about job security.
A weighted mean score for key questions in the Assuming the response rate remains unchanged, Employee satisfaction annual Logica employee survey.
2008 was the first the weighted mean score is a measure of overall year in which the survey was conducted across the staff engagement with Logica and the change in `` whole Group.
As such, this is the first year for which satisfaction from year to year.
the reporting re ects the full Group.
A weighted mean score for key questions in the Customer satisfaction is a key objective.
The Customer satisfaction revised annual Logica customer survey.
weighted mean score is a measure of the overall NEW `` effectiveness of our engagement with our customers and the change in satisfaction from year to year.
The headcount based in Logicas nearshore and A key component of the Programme for Growth is Nearshore and offshore headcount offshore centres which, at the end of 2007, were: to respond more rapidly to a globalising industry by NEW India, Philippines, Malaysia, Morocco, Central and accelerating blended delivery.
We aim to have 8,000 Eastern Europe.
employees in our nearshore and offshore centres `` by the end of 2009 from a base of 3,450 at the end of 2007.
A programme of signi cant cost reductions is taking The Programme for Growth is currently aiming to Cost savings reinvested place, in order to fund a number of investments which deliver annualised savings of 110 million up from in future growth will deliver sustainable revenue growth for more our original target of 80 million with 50 million NEW details of cost savings and reinvestments, see of those cost savings being invested in increased pages 7 to 9. sales and marketing expense by 2010 to deliver `` more sustainable long-term revenue growth and an improvement in adjusted operating margin.
This metric is closely linked to metrics on pro forma revenue growth and adjusted operating margin.
The Boards annual review resulted in the The additions of nearshore and offshore removal of one indicator and three additions headcount, customer satisfaction and to better align the KPIs with Logicas three cost savings reinvested in future growth year plan Programme for Growth set out in re ect new metrics being used alongside April 2008. our existing KPIs to assess the progress of The removal of the KPI related to the Programme for Growth see page 8 for a balanced business pro le with four more Programme for Growth metrics.
signi cant European pro t generators re ects the fact that the goal of having four pro t generating geographies was achieved in late 2006.
145 Design and video production sasdesign.
co. uk Print St Ives Westerham Press Environmental information This report is printed on Revive Pure Silk, a 100% recycled paper made up from pre and post consumer waste.
This paper has been independently certi ed according to the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO14001 standard for environmental management.
This report is recyclable and the lamination used on the cover is biodegradable.
The use of the FSC logo identi es products which contain wood from well-managed forests certi ed in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
