Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Our Mission We are successful Our Values when To grow and build our Zero Harm Our employees live and work portfolio of high quality assets.
safely and experience the We are committed to zero harm to people and the personal satisfaction that To deliver the requirements comes with high performance environment.
of the South African broadand recognition.
based socio-economic Mining Integrity, Honesty & Trust Charter and we welcome the We are committed ethical Our shareholders are realising opportunity to transform our a superior total return on their people who do what we say business.
investment and support our corporate sustainability values.
To build a value-based Transparency culture, which is founded The communities in which we Open, honest communication on safe work, continuous operate value our relationships.
and free sharing of information.
improvement, common We are meeting our Respect For Each Other standards and procedures, Embracing our diversity commitments to all business community involvement and partners and our suppliers, enriched by openness, one that rewards employees sharing, trust, teamwork contractors, partners and for high performance.
customers support our and involvement.
High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem.
Sir John Craven Ian Farmer Chairman Chief Executive November 2008 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 30 September 2008 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts For the year ending 30 September 2008 www.
com Focused on Operational Performance Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
