118 Shareholder Information Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP A DRIP is available through which eligible shareholders may invest stock exchanges, and American depositary receipts representing Lonmin shares are also traded in an over-the-counter market in the whole of their cash dividends in additional Lonmin Plc shares at the time they are paid.
Copies of the DRIP brochure and the USA.
application form are available from the registrars or can be UK share register information downloaded from the registrars website at www.
All holdings of the Companys shares are maintained on the Companys UK share register, with the exception of those held Consolidated Tax Vouchers UK-domiciled shareholders only on the South African branch register.
The register is administered In line with our commitment to communicate with shareholders in by Equiniti.
a more environmentally friendly way, the Company issues one You can access information about your shareholding including consolidated tax voucher each year to those shareholders who balance movements and dividend payments on Shareview, an have their dividends paid directly to their bank account.
If you electronic communications service provided by Equiniti.
It also would prefer to receive tax vouchers each time a dividend is paid, allows you to change your registered address details, set up a please contact our UK registrars on 0871 3842052. dividend mandate, vote at general meetings and register to receive Those shareholders who either participate in a DRIP or receive Company communications electronically.
payments by cheque to their registered address will continue to To register for this free service, visit www.
co. uk and receive a tax voucher with each payment.
Consolidated tax follow the simple instructions.
You will need your shareholder vouchers are not available to institutional shareholders.
reference number, which can be found on your share certificate or American depository receipts ADRs dividend tax voucher.
The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for South African branch register information which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the depository.
Each The South African branch register is administered by Link Market ADR represents one ordinary share of the Company.
The ADRs Services South Africa Pty Ltd. trade in the over-the-counter OTC market under the symbol Contact details for both the UK and South African registrars LOMNY.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the depository can be found in Corporate Information on page 117. makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars to ADR holders.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on Dividends page 117.
As noted in the Chairmans Statement on page 2, the Board does not recommend the payment of a final dividend.
The total dividend Further information for UK-domiciled shareholders Capital Gains Tax for the year ended 30 September 2008 therefore comprises the net interim dividend of 59 US cents paid on 8 August 2008.
For Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, who Currency of dividends held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of The currency declares dividends in US Dollars.
Any Dollar their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies.
dividends are paid in Sterling to UK shareholders unless they elect Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc to receive US Dollars and in Rand to shareholders on the South and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.498% for African branch register.
Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Companys capital reduction was completed on Dividend payment to your bank account 22 February 2002.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to The Company can pay UK registered shareholders dividends capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of the direct to their bank or building society account.
This means that base cost of their original shareholding to the capital reduction and dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts on the same the balance to their new holding of ordinary shares of $1 each.
day as the payment is made.
The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March Shareholders wishing to adopt this method of payment should 1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation contact the registrars.
issues, and 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Transcontinental Automated Payment System TAPS Companys shares on 24 April 1998 and 125.3 pence as adjusted TAPS permits shareholders resident in certain countries to receive for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998. dividend payments to their local bank and in their local currency.
All eligible shareholders have been or will be sent information on TAPS by Equiniti.
2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Shareholder Information 119 Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Warning to shareholders Boiler room scams Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited offers the Over the last year, many companies have become aware that their Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for investment in Lonmin shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are Lonmin Corporate ISA up to a maximum currently of 7,200 typically from overseas based brokers who target UK annually in cash or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be within 90 days of the release from a Sharesave scheme.
Contact worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These details can be found in Corporate Information on page 117. operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited is brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported regulated by the FSA.
This is not a recommendation that shareholders should that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary according to individual circumstances and shareholders who many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited are in any doubt should consult their financial adviser.
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or, offers of free company ShareGift reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity Make sure you get the correct name of the person and share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh organisation Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of getting involved by visiting www.
uk register which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate the shares to Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide or by visiting www.
Further information about ShareGift can be If the calls persist, hang up.
obtained from their website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from the Companys website.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regluated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website www.
