66 Notes to the accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies Reporting entity Lonmin Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 September 2008 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in associates and jointly controlled entities.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 106 to 113.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 November 2008.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
Liabilities for cash-settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
No changes in the accounting policies have had any effect on the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows: The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and management approach for determining these, is described in the policy on Impairment.
Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves SAMREC.
The determination of resources and reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and economic viability which are all subject to inherent uncertainties.
Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement.
Prior to production as final metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal.
Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
Management judgement, therefore, is also applied.
The Group holds a 22% interest in Platmin Limited but has accounted for the entity as an available for sale financial asset as the Group has no entitlement to, or actual, representation on the Board of Directors of Platmin Limited and is unable to exert significant influence on the company.
Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 67 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially measured at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of any associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures The Group undertakes a number of business activities through joint ventures.
Joint ventures are established through contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such joint ventures are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Revenue Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when: the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location : recovery of the consideration is probable: the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably: there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue.
The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory see Inventories policy.
com 68 Notes to the accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Finance income and expenses Finance income comprises interest on funds invested including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees which are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility, unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset.
Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction provided that future economic benefit is considered probable.
Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 Intangible Assets, is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights: conducting geological studies: exploratory drilling and sampling: and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the more detailed feasibility study stage.
Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project.
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets.
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on commencement of the development phase of the related project.
Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion, any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately.
Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase.
Subsequent expenditure may be capitalised at cost.
Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Groups policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use.
Therefore amortisation is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and evaluation expenditure.
They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of production basis over the life of the mine.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 69 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Share-based payment From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award.
Market-related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market conditions are met.
Business combinations and goodwill At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, associate or joint venture fair values are attributed to the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Any provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the acquisition date.
Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the acquired interest in the fair values of those net assets.
Goodwill is initially recognised at fair value.
Any negative goodwill is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
If an undertaking is subsequently sold, the amount of goodwill carried on the balance sheet at the date of disposal is charged to the income statement in the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures which are equity accounted for is included within the Groups investments.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of the associate.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value 20 to 40 years.
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of 20 years and are tested for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Recognition Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located.
Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement.
Componentisation When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
com 70 Notes to the accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment continued Capital work in progress Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when available for use.
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value.
The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves.
The expected useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Method Rate Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% 5.0% per annum 20 40 years Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% 7.1% per annum 14 40 years Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% 2.9% per annum 35 40 years Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% 50.0% per annum 2 40 years No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
Impairment The Groups principal assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and evaluation, mining and processing activities.
For the purpose of assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Value in use In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and managements approach to determine appropriate values is set out below: Key Assumption Management Approach PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as giving consideration to specific issues, such as the difficulty in mining particular sections of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long term plan of the business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Projections are made using external sources of information.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by competent persons and the views of the Directors of the Company.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 71 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Impairment continued Value in use continued Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than 5 years.
Projecting cash flows over a period longer than 5 years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Group's history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist.
Management does not apply a growth rate because a detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for Group is used for impairment testing.
The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in the CGU extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example, the level of knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk.
The real weighted average cost of capital applied to goodwill in the Marikana CGU was 8%.
Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the underlying ore body.
The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast as described in value in use.
This approach has been used in determining the value of the Akanani CGU based on the most up to date detailed mine and operating plans, modified as appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36.
The resources at Akanani include the exploration and evaluation asset, a deferred tax liability and tax goodwill.
The exploration and evaluation asset includes an amount for tax amortisation benefit.
A deferred tax liability was created on acquisition but because deferred tax liabilities are not discounted and the tax amortisation benefits are, a tax goodwill balance was created.
This tax goodwill balance represents the effect of not discounting the deferred tax liability.
This is reviewed for impairment as required under IAS 36 as well as under IFRS 6.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the units carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long-term PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
For the Akanani CGU managements assessment of mineral resources and reserves is higher than that at acquisition and there has been limited change in anticipated long-term metal prices since this time.
For the Akanani CGU management do not believe there are relevant market transactions which can be used to consider the asset on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Management do not believe there are any current indicators of impairment.
Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred reserves of PGM ounces and the quantity of reserves is also sensitive to the long term metal prices.
Adverse changes in reserves and resources or long term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU.
Any adverse impact on the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset could have a direct impact on the carrying value of the tax goodwill which has to be assessed under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
As the PGM ounces are only indicated and inferred, and plans for the extraction of the mineral resource are not that far advanced, it is considered impracticable to provide quantified sensitivities and an estimate of what headroom, if any, exists.
Goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
Exploration and evaluation assets Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount.
When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately charged to the income statement.
Reversal of impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss has reversed.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made.
A reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately.
com 72 Notes to the accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within 12 months included in bank overdrafts and loans within short-term liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale When an assets carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of the balance sheet date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads and net realisable value.
Platinum Group Metals PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative sales value of each of the three main metals produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating levels.
Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production expected in each phase.
The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs.
This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes overseas in accordance with local regulations.
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
The Group operated two types of pension schemes in the United Kingdom.
Firstly, there was a defined benefit retirement scheme for which the amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of net assets or liabilities represented the present value of the obligations offset by the fair value of the plan assets.
Any recognised asset was limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reduction in future contributions to the plan.
The cost of providing for the scheme was charged to the income statement over the periods relating to the employees service.
Actuarial gains and losses were recognised in full in the period in which they occurred.
They were recognised outside of the income statement in retained earnings and presented in the statement of recognised income and expense.
This scheme has been closed to new entrants with effect from 6 April 2006, closed to further accrual on 30 June 2007 and was settled in 2008.
Secondly, for current UK employees, the Group either makes payments on behalf of employees into a defined contribution scheme which the Group has set up, or makes direct payments to the employees who may then make their own arrangements.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 73 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax also includes secondary tax charges on dividends remitted which are recognised upon the declaration of relevant dividends.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base.
Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax relating to the secondary tax charges on the remittance of overseas earnings is provided to the extent that such remittance of earnings can reasonably be foreseen.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted basis.
As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income statement if utilised within one year.
Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, listed convertible bonds, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short-term deposits.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
These also comprise bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available for sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except when market value has fallen below original cost when the losses are taken to the income statement together with any foreign exchange gains or losses arising whilst the asset is impaired.
When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance sheet date where this is available.
Where market price is not available the Directors best estimates of market value are used.
com 74 Notes to the accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Convertible bonds The Group had raised debt through the issue of convertible bonds.
These bonds incorporated two key elements.
Firstly, there was the financial liability in respect of the debt element.
This was measured at net present value of future cash flows.
Secondly, the bonds allowed for conversion to equity at the option of the bond holder.
This represented an equity embedded derivative.
However, as the Group had retained a cash settlement option this equity conversion feature was shown as a financial liability if the fair value was greater than the net present value of the debt.
This embedded derivative was fair valued at each reporting period end with changes in fair value being taken through the income statement.
The convertible bonds were fully redeemed during 2007.
Bank loans Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations and commodity price risks on by-products.
The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when occurred and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is recognised directly in equity if effective.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Segmental reporting A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in either providing products or services business segment, or is providing products or services within a particular economic environment geographical segment which is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those of other segments.
The Groups primary format for segment reporting is based on business segments.
The business segments are determined based on the Groups management and internal reporting structure.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
New standards and amendments in the year With effect from the 1 October 2007 the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
This introduces new disclosures for financial instruments see note 22 but does not have any impact on the consolidated income statement or balance sheet.
There were no other new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which materially impacted the Groups financial statements.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 30 September 2008, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements: IFRS 8 Operating Segments introduces the management approach to segment reporting.
IFRS 8, which becomes mandatory for the Groups 2009 financial statements, will require the disclosure of segment information based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each segments performance and to allocate resources to them.
Revised IAS 23 Borrowing Costs removes the option to expense borrowing costs and requires that an entity capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset.
The revised IAS 23 will become mandatory for the Groups 2009 financial statements.
Currently, the Group has elected to capitalise all permitted borrowing cost to the cost of the asset and therefore the change will not impact on the Group financial statements.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 75 2 Segmental analysis The Groups primary operating segment is the mining of Platinum Group Metals.
The majority of the Groups operations are based in South Africa.
2008 ii Platinum Corporate Exploration Total Analysis by business group $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales 2,231 2,231 Operating profit loss 892 101 27 764 Segment total assets 3,369 25 741 4,135 Segment total liabilities 1,100 267 174 1,541 i Capital expenditure 389 36 425 Depreciation and amortisation 96 96 Impairment losses note 3 193 193 Share of profit of associate and joint venture 27 27 Share of net assets of associate and joint venture 163 163 2007 ii Platinum Corporate Exploration Total Analysis by business group $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales 1,941 1,941 Operating profit loss 880 63 23 794 Segment total assets 3,211 41 686 3,938 Segment total liabilities 1,066 339 173 1,578 i Capital expenditure 353 19 372 Depreciation and amortisation 87 87 Impairment losses note 3 5 5 Share of profit of associate and joint venture 18 18 Share of net assets of associate and joint venture 131 131 2008 South Africa UK Other Total Analysis by geographical location $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales 2,231 2,231 Segment total assets 4,091 10 34 4,135 i Capital expenditure 425 425 2007 South Africa UK Other Total Analysis by geographical location $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales 1,941 1,941 Segment total assets 3,867 41 30 3,938 i Capital expenditure 372 372 Footnotes: i Capital expenditure includes additions to plant, property and equipment including capitalised interest, intangible assets and goodwilI in accordance with IAS 14 Segment Reporting.
ii The corporate segment consists of the London head office and the Johannesburg office including marketing and the capital programme group.
Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below: 2008 2007 $m $m The Americas 580 419 Asia 798 705 Europe 349 314 South Africa 496 482 Zimbabwe 8 21 2,231 1,941 www.
com 76 Notes to the accounts 3 Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency with prior years.
2008 2007 $m $m Operating profit: 199 2 i Sale of houses 1 ii Sale of subsidiary 2 iii Pensions 9 2 iv Defence costs 18 v Impairment 174 5 vi Impairment of available for sale financial assets 19 Finance costs: vii Movement in fair value of embedded derivative 104 Loss on special items before taxation 218 106 Taxation related to special items note 7 109 42 Special loss before minority interest 109 148 Minority interest 14 9 Special loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 95 139 Footnotes: i The Company is selling houses to employees to encourage home-ownership.
Any profits or losses from such sales are not deemed to represent underlying earnings.
ii During the period, the Group disposed of a subsidiary, Southern Era Mining Exploration South Africa Pty Limited, for consideration of $3 million resulting in a profit before tax of $2 million.
iii During 2008 the Group settled the Lonmin Superannuation Scheme LSS and incurred a $9 million charge.
No further expense relating to the LSS is expected in future periods.
In 2007 the Group finalised the winding up of the SUITS pension scheme which was settled in 2004.
During the prior year a $1 million provision was made for the purchase of additional benefits for members of the scheme which was offset by a $3 million refund on final settlement.
iv In 2008 the Group incurred $18 million of defence costs relating to a takeover bid that occurred.
v Impairment charges primarily comprised the write down of property, plant and equipment of $89 million for Baobab shaft at Limpopo together with $73 million of smelting synergies recognised as goodwill recognised at acquisition and $7 million relating to the remaining carrying value of the Messina concentrate off-take contract.
This impairment has arisen as a result of reduced reserves and weaker short-term pricing now anticipated.
In 2008 the income statement has been presented to incorporate these charges within depreciation, amortisation and impairment.
In the prior year the Group carried out a review of non-mining investments resulting in a $5 million impairment charge to the income statement.
This charge was not separated out in line with the 2008 presentation of the income statement on the grounds of materiality.
vi Certain available for sale financial assets have been marked to market and have fallen below original acquisition costs resulting in $19 million of impairment charges being taken to the income statement.
vii In the prior period convertible bonds existed that contained an embedded derivative which, because of the cash settlement option, was held at fair value with movements in fair value taken to the income statement.
Fluctuations of fair value were mainly due to share price and as they were not considered underlying they were reported as special.
The convertible bonds were fully redeemed during the 2007 fiscal year with the movement in fair value from the previous year end to the date of redemption being reported as special.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 77 4 Group operating profit Group operating profit is arrived at as follows: 2008 2007 $m $m Revenue 2,231 1,941 Cost of sales 1,121 1,017 Gross profit 1,110 924 Administration expenses 120 105 Exploration 27 23 Special costs note 3 199 2 Group operating profit 764 794 Group operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2008 2007 $m $m Operating lease charges land and buildings 1 1 Depreciation and amortisation 96 87 i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments 15 12 Special items note 3 199 2 Share-based payments 6 22 Foreign exchange gains 13 7 Footnote: i Included within employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments is $9 million 2007 $7 million in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates included in operating costs: 2008 2007 $m $m UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.3 1.2 1.5 0.3 0.8 1.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 Tax services 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.4 Sustainability assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 IT assurance services 0.5 0.5 0.2 0.2 Accounting and other advice 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.7 1.1 2.2 3.3 0.9 2.0 2.9 www.
com 78 Notes to the accounts 5 Employees The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 No.
South Africa 25,274 24,072 Europe 36 38 Rest of world 52 12 25,362 24,122 The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows: 2008 2007 Employee costs $m $m Wages and salaries 501 419 Social security costs 14 18 Pension costs 36 33 Share-based payments 6 22 557 492 2008 2007 Key management compensation $m $m Short-term employee benefits 9 9 Termination payments 5 2 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Key management costs excluding share-based payments 15 12 Share-based payments 3 8 18 20 The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Chief Executive Committee CEC which comprised the three executive Directors and eight other senior managers 2007 three executive Directors and eight other senior managers.
The sterling equivalents of total Directors emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full details of Directors remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 37 to 54.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 79 6 Net finance costs 2008 2007 $m $m Finance income: 13 25 Interest receivable 5 16 Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme assets 8 Movement in fair value of other receivables 1 1 Other interest receivable 7 Finance expenses: 6 28 On bank loans and overdrafts 22 40 Bank fees 1 5 Capitalised interest 23 23 Unwind of discounting on provisions 4 3 Unwind of discounting on convertible bonds 3 Exchange differences on other receivables 4 Exchange differences on net debt 2 7 Pension scheme interest payable 7 Special items: 104 Movement in fair values of derivative financial instruments note 3 104 Total finance expenses 6 132 Net finance income expense 7 107 Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset.
The weighted average interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 4.7% 2007 6.0%.
com 80 Notes to the accounts 7 Taxation 2008 2007 $m $m United Kingdom: Current tax expense at 28% 2007 30% 126 42 Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available 126 42 Total UK tax expense Overseas: Current tax expense at 28% 2007 29% 261 200 Corporate tax expense 224 186 Tax on dividends remitted 37 14 Deferred tax expense: 61 55 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 49 55 Tax on dividends unremitted 12 Special items UK and overseas: 109 42 i Utilisation of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability 2 9 ii Exchange on current taxation 19 10 ii Exchange on deferred taxation 69 41 iii Change in tax rate 19 Actual tax charge 213 297 Tax charge excluding special items 322 255 Effective tax rate 27% 42% Effective tax rate excluding special items 32% 31% Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 81 7 Taxation continued A reconciliation of the standard tax charge to the tax charge was as follows: 2008 2008 2007 2007 $m $m Tax charge at standard tax rate 28% 218 29% 204 Overseas taxes on dividends remitted by subsidiary companies 5% 37 2% 14 Overseas taxes on dividends unremitted by subsidiary companies 2% 12 Special items as defined above 14% 109 6% 42 Tax effect of impairment relating to Baobab shaft at Limpopo 6% 49 Tax effect of impairment of available for sale financial assets 5 Tax effect of movements in the fair values of financial instruments 4% 31 Tax effect of other timing differences 1 1% 6 Actual tax charge 27% 213 42% 297 The Groups primary operations are based in South Africa.
Therefore, the relevant standard tax rate for the Group was the South African statutory tax rate of 28% 2007 29%.
The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies was 10.0% 2007 12.5%.
Footnotes: i The Group holds a number of available for sale financial assets which are marked to market.
In the prior year the value of these investments increased significantly resulting in the recognition of unrealised gains through the statement of recognised income and expense.
This resulted in the recognition of an associated deferred tax liability except to the extent that there were available losses which, in the opinion of the Directors, could be utilised to offset against such gains.
In the current year most of the investments decreased in value resulting in the unwind of the associated deferred tax balances.
Losses below initial carrying value have not created deferred tax assets because future profits arising in relevant statutory entities are not considered sufficiently certain.
ii Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based on Rand financial statements.
As the Groups functional currency is US Dollar this leads to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as well as other translation differences.
The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2008 is $373 million 30 September 2007 $391 million.
iii The corporation tax rate changed to 28% for the current financial year 2007 29%.
This resulted in a net release of deferred tax liabilities of $19 million.
This tax saving has been reported as special.
8 Earnings per share Earnings per share have been calculated on the profit attributable to equity shareholders amounting to $455 million 2007 $314 million using a weighted average number of 156,311,052 ordinary shares in issue 2007 153,097,437 ordinary shares.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options and shares issuable.
In the prior year shares issuable on conversion of the convertible bonds were anti-dilutive and so were excluded from diluted earnings per share in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
com 82 Notes to the accounts 8 Earnings per share continued Underlying earnings per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying results of the business.
Underlying earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude special items as defined in note 3 as follows: 2008 2007 Profit for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic EPS 455 156,311,052 291.1 314 153,097,437 205.1 Special items note 3 95 60.8 139 90.8 Underlying EPS 550 156,311,052 351.9 453 153,097,437 295.9 Headline earnings and the resultant headline earnings per share are specific disclosures defined and required by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
These are calculated as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2008 2007 $m $m Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders IAS 33 earnings 455 314 Less profit on sale of subsidiary note 3 2 Less profit on sale of available for sale financial assets 2 Add back impairment of assets note 3 193 5 Tax related to the above items 1 1 Headline earnings 647 316 2008 2007 Profit for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Headline EPS 647 156,311,052 413.9 316 153,097,437 206.4 Diluted EPS 496,389 1.3 1,324,642 1.8 Diluted Headline EPS 647 156,807,441 412.6 316 154,422,079 204.6 9 Dividends 2008 2007 $m Cents per share $m Cents per share Prior year final dividend paid in the year 94 60.0 85 55.0 Interim dividend paid in the year 92 59.0 86 55.0 Total dividend paid in the year 186 119.0 171 110.0 Interim dividend paid in the year 92 59.0 86 55.0 Proposed final dividend for the year 0.0 94 60.0 Total dividend in respect of the year 92 59.0 180 115.0 Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 83 10 Goodwill 2008 2007 $m $m Cost: As at 1 October 186 113 Additions 73 As at 30 September 186 186 Impairment: As at 1 October Charge in the year 73 As at 30 September 73 NBV at 30 September 113 186 There are two cash generating units CGUs in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill.
The Marikana CGU operates as a single business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group.
The Akanani CGU is located in a separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the Groups impairment policy see note 1.
At 30 September 2008 goodwill is allocated as follows: $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU 2007 $40 million.
This arose on the acquisition of a further 9.11% of the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004.
$73 million tax goodwill is allocated to the Akanani CGU 2007 $73 million as explained in note 33.
At 30 September 2007 $73 million of goodwill was allocated to the Marikana CGU which represented smelting synergies that arose upon the acquisition of Messina Platinum Mines Limited.
These synergies existed because the chemical composition of the ore produced from Messinas Baobab shaft allowed for increased yields from the processing facilities at Marikana.
As explained in note 3 the Baobab shaft is not considered to be economically viable at present and an impairment was calculated on a value in use basis.
As a result this goodwill has been written off to the income statement.
com 84 Notes to the accounts 11 Intangible assets 2008 2007 Exploration Exploration and Mineral and Mineral evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost: At 1 October 630 337 47 1,014 337 47 384 Additions 36 36 19 19 Acquisition note 33 611 611 At 30 September 666 337 47 1,050 630 337 47 1,014 Amortisation: At 1 October 64 14 78 53 3 56 Charge for the year 9 7 16 11 11 22 Impairment 7 7 At 30 September 73 28 101 64 14 78 Net book value: At 30 September 666 264 19 949 630 273 33 936 The net book value of other intangible assets at 30 September 2008 represented: capitalised software development costs $19 million 2007 $22 million : Messina concentrate off-take contract $nil 2007 $11 million.
During the year $4 million was depreciated 2007 $4 million and $7 million was impaired at the year end following the impairment of the Baobab shaft as explained in note 10.
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $12 million of capitalised interest 2007 $13 million.
The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $666 million relating to the exploration operations at Akanani.
$611 million arose at acquisition in February 2007.
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill see note 10.
The Groups approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set out in the accounting policies note see note 1.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 85 12 Property, plant and equipment Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant in progress Short term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost or deemed cost: At 1 October 2007 310 1 975 503 312 77 2,178 Additions 226 105 7 35 16 389 Transfers 154 104 26 24 At 30 September 2008 382 1 1,184 536 371 93 2,567 Depreciation: At 1 October 2007 243 134 113 15 505 Charge for the year 36 20 23 1 80 Impairment charge 71 18 89 At 30 September 2008 350 154 154 16 674 Net book value: At 30 September 2008 382 1 834 382 217 77 1,893 At 30 September 2007 310 1 732 369 199 62 1,673 Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant in progress Short term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost or deemed cost: At 1 October 2006 102 1 983 501 239 82 1,908 Additions 208 25 4 32 11 280 Transfers to assets held for sale 10 10 Transfers 33 2 41 6 At 30 September 2007 310 1 975 503 312 77 2,178 Depreciation: At 1 October 2006 222 115 84 24 445 Charge for the year 31 19 12 3 65 Transfers to assets held for sale 5 5 Transfers 10 17 7 At 30 September 2007 243 134 113 15 505 Net book value: At 30 September 2007 310 1 732 369 199 62 1,673 At 30 September 2006 102 1 761 386 155 58 1,463 Interest capitalised during 2008 amounted to $11 million 2007 $10 million.
In accordance with the Group accounting policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million 2007 $13 million.
As explained in note 3, impairment reviews of the Baobab shaft at Limpopo operations have resulted in the impairment charges to property, plant and equipment of $89 million.
The remaining assets that relate to the Baobab shaft at Limpopo which have a carrying value of $40 million have not been impaired because they can be used in the business.
com 86 Notes to the accounts 13 Associates and Joint Venture The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala Resources Pty Limited which is incorporated in South Africa.
The functional currency of Incwala Resources Pty Limited is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the Company are recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa.
The Group equity accounts for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity.
2008 2007 Group Group share of share of net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Net book value at 1 October 125 6 131 107 6 113 Share of profits 27 27 18 18 Foreign exchange 5 5 Net book value at 30 September 157 6 163 125 6 131 Our share of the associate and joint venture net assets comprises the following: 2008 2007 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 137 11 148 137 11 148 Current assets 6 44 50 21 30 51 Current liabilities 1 12 13 28 13 41 Non-current liabilities 25 3 28 27 6 33 Net Assets 117 40 157 103 22 125 Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the associate and joint venture comprised: 2008 2007 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Share of net assets 117 40 157 103 22 125 Goodwill 6 6 6 6 123 40 163 109 22 131 Our share of the associate and joint venture profit comprises the following: 2008 2007 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue Income 15 42 57 8 33 41 Expenses including taxation 6 24 30 2 21 23 Profit 9 18 27 6 12 18 Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 87 14 Financial assets Available Other for sale receivables Total $m $m $m At 1 October 2007 226 22 248 Additions 17 17 Disposals 1 1 Movement in fair value 127 1 126 Impairment loss 19 19 Exchange differences 4 4 At 30 September 2008 96 19 115 Available Other for sale receivables Total $m $m $m At 1 October 2006 98 19 117 Additions 72 72 Disposals 51 51 Movement in fair value 111 1 112 Impairment loss 5 5 Exchange differences 123 At 30 September 2007 226 22 248 Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price where available.
Available for sale financial assets includes a 21% shareholding in Platmin Limited.
This has not been treated as an associate as, in the opinion of the Directors, the Group does not exert, or have the ability to exert, significant influence over the company.
Other receivables at 30 September 2008 represents loans advanced to fellow investors in Incwala Resources Pty Limited.
These loans expire in between one and three years.
The loans are held at fair value calculated using future cash flows discounted at the South African prime interest rate.
2008 2007 $m $m Listed investments 85 214 Listed investments include a 21% shareholding in Platmin Limited 2007 22% which was listed on the AIM on 10 August 2006. www.
com 88 Notes to the accounts 15 Employee benefits The overseas schemes are all defined contribution plans whilst in the UK there was both a defined contribution scheme and a defined benefit scheme, the Lonmin Superannuation Scheme LSS which was settled during the year see note 3.
There were no accrued obligations under defined contribution plans.
The total pension cost for the Group was $36 million 2007 $33 million, $34 million of which related to overseas schemes 2007 $31 million.
The Lonmin Superannuation Scheme On 11 July 2008 the Company and the trustees entered into an agreement to wind up the scheme which was valued historically using the following major assumptions: Discount rate 5.8% per annum 2007 5.8% per annum Inflation assumptions 3.4% per annum 2007 3.4% per annum Rate of increase in salaries n a 2007 n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.0-3.4% per annum 2007 3.0-3.4% per annum Contribution rate in the year 40.8% per annum 2007 40.8% per annum Expected future contribution rate n a 2007 n a The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
For its UK pension arrangements the Group has, for the purpose of calculating its liabilities as at 11 July 2008 used PA 92 c2010 tables based on year of birth as published by the Institute of Actuaries for pre-retirement mortality 30 September 2007 PA 92 c2010 and PA 92 c2020 for post-retirement mortality 30 September 2007 PA 92 c2020.
The fair value of the schemes assets are detailed in the table below: 2008 2007 Expected return Expected return % $m % $m Insurance policies 5.8 63 Equities n a Bonds 5.0 97 Total market value of assets 160 Unrecognised assets 25 Value of plan assets 135 Fair value of scheme liabilities 135 Net pension asset There were no material changes to the value of plan assets and obligations between 30 September 2007 and the date of settlement.
An analysis of the amounts that have been charged to operating profit is as follows: 2008 2007 $m $m Curtailment gain 1 Cost of settlement 9 Total operating charge 9 1 An analysis of the amounts that have been charged to interest is as follows: 2008 2007 $m $m Expected return on pension scheme assets 8 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 7 Net return 1 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense is a loss of $14 million 2007 $14 million.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 89 15 Employee benefits continued An analysis of the amounts that have been recognised in the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense SORIE is as follows: 2008 2007 $m $m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 3 Movement on unrecognised assets 20 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme liabilities increase to the discount rate 12 Actuarial loss recognised in the SORIE 11 When setting the overall expected rate of return on plan assets, historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships between equities and bonds are preserved.
This is consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that assets with higher volatility generate a greater return over time.
Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before expected return assumptions are determined for each asset class.
The overall expected return is established with proper consideration of diversification and rebalancing.
Peer data and historical returns are reviewed to check they are reasonable and appropriate.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: $m Value of plan assets at 1 October 2006 142 Expected return on assets 8 Actuarial loss 3 Employer contribution 3 Exchange gain 10 Benefits paid and expenses 5 Unrecognised assets 20 Value of plan assets at 30 September 2007 135 Settlement 135 Value of plan assets at 30 September 2008 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: $m Defined benefit obligations at 30 September 2006 136 Interest cost 7 Exchange loss 10 Actuarial gain 11 Curtailment gain 1 Benefits paid 6 Defined benefit obligations at 30 September 2007 135 Settlement 135 Defined benefit obligations at 30 September 2008 An analysis of the history of experience gains and losses is as follows: 2008 2007 2006 $m $m $m Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 3 2 Experience gains on scheme liabilities 1 Total amount recognised in SORIE 11 6 www.
com 90 Notes to the accounts 15 Employee benefits continued Non-current liabilities The Group runs a number of employee benefit share scheme plans.
The balances held on the balance sheet as employee benefits at the year end were as follows: 2008 2007 $m $m Cash settled share options 13 16 Social security on share options 8 8 21 24 16 Inventories 2008 2007 $m $m Raw materials and consumables 36 31 Work in progress 276 154 Finished goods 7 1 319 186 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $1,041 million 2007 $952 million.
17 Trade and other receivables 2008 2007 $m $m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 249 287 Other receivables 74 47 Prepayments and accrued income 3 4 326 338 18 Assets held for sale 2008 2007 $m $m At 1 October 7 6 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 5 Disposals 1 4 At 30 September 6 7 Assets held for sale represent houses the Group is selling to employees, within twelve months of the balance sheet date, to encourage home ownership.
These assets are held in the Platinum business segment and the South African geographical region.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 91 19 Trade and other payables 2008 2007 $m $m Trade payables 149 104 Accruals 98 128 Indirect taxation and social security 4 3 Other payables 95 51 346 286 20 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2008 2007 $m $m Short-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 237 Long-term loans: Bank loans unsecured 529 359 529 596 The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 22c.
21 Derivative financial instruments 2008 2007 Cash flow hedges $m $m Derivative financial instruments asset 20 8 The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments.
Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups interests to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future price fluctuations.
For both 2008 and 2007 such forward sales contracts have only been made to hedge the prices of nickel and copper by-products and such contracts are typically settled within one year.
com 92 Notes to the accounts 22 Financial risk management For the narrative policies regarding financial risk management refer to the Financial Review on pages 12 to 15.
22a Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 2008 2007 $m $m Non-current assets: Other receivables 19 22 Current assets: Trade receivables 249 287 Other receivables 74 47 Derivative financial instruments 20 8 Cash and cash equivalents 226 222 588 586 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was: 2008 2007 $m $m The Americas 123 132 Asia 58 49 Europe 28 47 South Africa 40 59 249 287 22b Credit risk Trade receivables The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: 2008 2007 Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Not past due 246 246 254 254 Past due 0-30 days 17 17 Past due 31-60 days 5 5 Past due 61-90 days 13 10 3 11 11 259 10 249 287 287 The movement in the provision in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2008 2007 $m $m Opening balance at 1 October i New provision recognised 10 Closing balance at 30 September 10 Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 93 22 Financial risk management continued 22b Credit risk Trade receivables continued The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date that are past their due date and have not been provided for was as follows: 2008 2007 $m $m Less than 30 days past due 17 Between 31 and 60 days past due 5 Between 61 and 90 days past due 3 11 3 33 22c Liquidity risk Maturity of financial liabilities The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2008 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 529 577 17 286 274 Trade and other payables 346 346 346 Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2007 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 596 664 260 73 222 109 Trade and other payables 286 286 286 Bank overdraft 1 1 1 www.
com 94 Notes to the accounts 22 Financial risk management continued 22d Currency exposures Lonmins operations are based predominantly in South Africa with the entire income stream arising in US Dollars.
Cash held in South Africa is mostly in US Dollars and is normally remitted on a regular basis to the UK.
When short-term working capital facilities are required in South Africa these are in US Dollars or South African Rand as appropriate.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement.
2008 2007 SA rand Sterling Euro Total SA rand Sterling Euro Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets: Other receivables 19 19 22 22 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 40 2 42 59 12 71 Cash and cash equivalents 34 34 11 41 16 Tax recoverable 5 5 3 3 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 262 19 281 225 14 239 Tax payable 55 55 40 40 219 17 236 170 21 167 22e Interest rate risk Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over the future as shown below: Weighted average interest rate in 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 % $m $m $m $m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 226 Liabilities i Loans 4.7 529 300 195 105 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates 2008 2007 2008 2007 $m $m $m $m Financial assets US Dollar 400 501 192 206 SA Rand 59 81 34 11 Sterling 2 12 4 Euro 1 461 594 226 222 Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 95 22 Financial risk management continued 22e Interest rate risk continued 2008 2007 $m $m The financial assets of the Group comprised: Trade and other receivables 326 338 Cash and short-term deposits 226 222 Loans receivable 19 22 Available for sale financial assets 96 226 Derivative financial instruments 20 8 687 816 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates 2008 2007 2008 2007 $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: US Dollar 65 47 529 597 SA Rand 262 225 Sterling 19 14 346 286 529 597 2008 2007 $m $m The financial liabilities of the Group comprised: Trade and other payables 346 286 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 529 596 Overdraft 1 875 883 Footnotes: i Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the balance sheet date.
com 96 Notes to the accounts 22 Financial risk management continued 22f Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: 2008 2007 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 96 96 226 226 Other non-current receivables 19 19 22 22 Trade and other receivables 326 326 338 338 Cash and cash equivalents 226 226 222 222 Derivative financial instruments 20 20 88 Bank overdraft 1 1 Trade and other payables 346 346 286 286 Unsecured bank loans 529 529 596 596 188 188 67 67 Available for sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments are marked to market.
Other non-current receivables are carried at fair value as described in note 14.
For bank overdraft and cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore the carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
23 Deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance 2008 2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 $m $m $m $m $m $m Exploration and evaluation assets 167 167 173 173 Property, plant and equipment 393 393 414 414 Provisions 31 31 19 19 Deferred tax on unrecognised gains on available for sale financial assets 21 21 Deferred tax on dividends payable 12 12 Deferred tax on derivatives 5 5 2 2 Share-based payments 6 6 6 6 37 577 540 25 610 585 Movement in temporary differences during the year Recognised in income At 1 At 30 October Exchange Special Recognised September 2007 movements items Underlying in equity Acquisitions 2008 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Exploration and evaluation assets 173 6 167 Property, plant and equipment 414 71 14 64 393 Provisions 19 2 1 15 31 Deferred tax on unrecognised gains on available for sale financial assets 21 2 19 Deferred tax on dividends payable 12 12 Cash flow hedges 2 3 5 Share-based payments 6 6 585 69 21 61 16 540 Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 97 23 Deferred tax assets liabilities continued Movement in temporary differences during the year continued Recognised in income At 1 At 30 October Exchange Special Recognised September 2006 movements items Underlying in equity Acquisitions 2007 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Exploration and evaluation assets 173 173 Property, plant and equipment 319 43 57 5 414 Provisions 15 2 2 19 Deferred tax on unrealised gains on available for sale financial assets 9 30 21 Cash flow hedges 2 2 Share-based payments 10 4 6 294 41 9 55 31 173 585 Unrecognised deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred tax assets liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2008 2007 Unrecognised Unrecognised Timing deferred tax Timing deferred tax differences assets differences assets $m $m $m $m Capital losses carried forward 779 215 893 250 Trading and other losses carried forward 146 41 111 31 Unredeemed capital expenditure 211 59 268 75 Share-based payments 21 6 46 13 Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries 1,418 142 1,030 129 261 179 288 240 The timing differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate in the United Kingdom at 28% 2007 30%, South Africa at 28% 2007 29% and Canada at 18% 2007 18%.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries has been calculated using the South African secondary tax rate of 10.0% 2007 12.5%.
At 30 September 2008, the Group had an amount of $126 million 2007 $144 million of surplus Advanced Corporation Tax ACT available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities.
Shadow ACT amounted to $286 million 2007 $280 million and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the operating losses and the capital losses where it is not considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of any of the underlying differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted foreign profits when it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Generally retained earnings held in South Africa that have arisen in prior years are retained there in order to fund capital expenditure requirements.
com 98 Notes to the accounts 24 Provisions 2008 2007 $m $m At 1 October 46 39 Charge for the year 8 Unwinding of discount 4 3 Exchange differences 8 4 At 30 September 50 46 Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities with the cash flows occurring in line with the environmental impact of the operations.
25 Contingent liabilities 2008 2007 $m $m i Third party guarantees 7 8 ii Indemnities 74 95 iii Preference share capital put options 18 15 iv Vantage Capital Investments 18 19 Outstanding legal claims 2 Contingent liabilities 119 137 Footnotes: i Third party guarantees relate to guarantees provided by the Group in connection with the sale of certain subsidiaries in 1996, 1997 and 1998 for which amounts have been reasonably estimated but the liabilities are not probable and therefore the Group has not provided for such amounts in the accounts.
ii Indemnities represent the vendor financing indemnity given by Lonmin following the purchase of the additional 9.11% in Eastern Platinum Limited EPL and Western Platinum Limited WPL and the investment in Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala.
Lonmin agreed to indemnify Impala Platinum Holdings Limited Impala against any non-payment on the relevant due date of any principal amount owing to Impala by any HDSA historically disadvantaged South African investor in relation to loans made by Impala to HDSA investors for their purchase of shares in EPL and WPL.
The value of this indemnity is the US Dollar equivalent of R615 million $74 million of which $53 million expires on 30 September 2009 and $21 million expires on 30 September 2011.
A counterindemnity has been given by each HDSA investor which is secured on that HDSA investors shares in Incwala.
iii Various preference share capital put option agreements were entered into by Lonmin with a number of banks who subscribed for preference shares in HDSAs investing in Incwala.
These options, which amount to the US Dollar equivalent of R151 million $18 million, can be put upon Lonmin by the banks in the event that the HDSAs default on payment.
A counter-indemnity has been given by each HDSA investor which is secured on that HDSA investors shares in Incwala.
iv Vantage Capital Investments: 1 In 2006, pursuant to a reorganisation of the HDSA shareholdings in Incwala, Lonmin Plc granted Standard Chartered Bank Johannesburg Branch a put option in respect of 96 preference shares in Vantage Capital Investments Pty Ltd. During the year ended 30 September 2007 the bank sold 48 of these put options to Thelo Incwala Investments Pty Limited Thelo.
The value of the put option granted by Lonmin Plc outstanding at 30 September 2008 was the US Dollar equivalent of R105 million $13 million, 2007 $13 million.
2 The Lonmin Employee Masakane Trust LEMT has a 25% shareholding in Thelo.
Lonmin Plc has provided a guarantee to Sanlam Capital Markets Limited, on behalf of LEMT, over their 25% share of the Thelo funding to acquire the put option in respect of 48 preference shares in Vantage Capital.
The value of this guarantee at 30 September 2008 was the US Dollar equivalent of R39 million $5 million, 2007 $6 million.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 99 26 Called up share capital and share premium account Number $m Ordinary shares of $1 each: Authorised 2008 and 2007 252,735,000 253 Issued and fully paid 2008 156,383,233 156 Issued and fully paid 2007 156,151,895 156 Deferred shares of 1 each: Authorised, issued and fully paid 2008 and 2007 50,000 Paid up Share Issued and fully paid amount premium Number $m $m At 1 October 2007: Ordinary shares of $1 each 156,151,895 156 299 The issue of shares pursuant to: i exercises under the Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme 202,880 6 ii exercises under the Lonmin Share Option Scheme 8,508 iii exercises under the Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994 3,024 iv exercises under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 16,926 At 30 September 2008: Ordinary shares of $1 each 156,383,233 156 305 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares together with other information required by Section 992 of the Companies Act 1985 can be found in the Directors Report on page 26 of this document.
com 100 Notes to the accounts 27 Share plans At 30 September 2008, the following options and awards were outstanding: Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise average average price of remaining fair value Number outstanding contracted of options of shares options pence life years granted Share Plans Executive Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 30.09.07 523,077 1,085.15 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 197,188 1,092.87 Lapsed during the year 76,153 1,138.42 Outstanding at 30.09.08 249,736 1,064.51 4.26 2.07 Exercisable at the end of the year 249,736 1,064.51 Lonmin Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 30.09.07 27,034 1,150.00 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 14,200 1,150.00 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30.09.08 12,834 1,150.00 3.75 2.07 Exercisable at the end of the year 12,834 1,150.00 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 30.09.07 24,973 833.95 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 3,024 790.57 Lapsed during the year 2,253 950.39 Outstanding at 30.09.08 19,696 827.30 1.36 3.18 Exercisable at the end of the year Long Term Incentive Plan Outstanding at 30.09.07 448,098 Granted during the year 108,059 Exercised during the year 45,200 Lapsed during the year 10,985 Outstanding at 30.09.08 499,972 1.56 20.26 Exercisable at the end of the year 131,384 Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Outstanding at 30.09.07 109,872 Granted during the year 20,662 Exercised during the year 35,966 Lapsed during the year 21,375 Outstanding at 30.09.08 73,193 1.18 19.88 Exercisable at the end of the year 25,877 Co Investment Plan Matched Award Outstanding at 30.09.07 126,360 Granted during the year Rolled over during the year Vested during the year Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30.09.08 126,360 1.63 26.69 Exercisable at the end of the year Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 101 27 Share plans continued Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise average average price of remaining fair value Number outstanding contracted of options of shares options pence life years granted Cash Settled Plans Stay & Prosper Plan Outstanding at 30.09.07 780,953 Granted during the year 866,340 Exercised during the year 120,751 Lapsed during the year 284,728 Outstanding at 30.09.08 1,241,814 2.32 21.60 Exercisable at the end of the year Scarce Skills Retention Plan Outstanding at 30.09.07 109,000 Granted during the year Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year 27,000 Outstanding at 30.09.08 82,000 0.79 22.74 Exercisable at the end of the year Further information about each of the above plans including the performance conditions can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report in pages 37 to 54.
Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust the Trust At 30 September 2008 the Trust held 103,661 shares beneficially and as bare trustee 2007 183,025 shares.
The market value of these shares at the year end was $2 million 2007 $7 million.
Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the Trust on behalf of the participants.
Each of the executive Directors are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent disclosed in the table of Directors share interest, and non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted in period The fair value of both equity-settled and cash-settled options granted in the period have been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the following valuation models: SAYE Black-Scholes LTIP Monte Carlo DABP Monte Carlo Stay and Prosper Monte Carlo Scarce Skills Black-Scholes 2008 2007 Range of share price at date of grant 23.92 34.08 29.15 38.75 Exercise price Expected option life years 3 3 Volatility 23 65% 33 42% Dividend yield 2.7% 1.5% Risk free interest rate 2.9 3.0% 4.7 5.5% Volatility was calculated with reference to the Groups historic share price volatility up to the grant date.
The number of years of historic data used is equal to the term of each option.
The liability in respect of the cash-settled elements of the schemes shown above and reported within non-current employee benefits at 30 September 2008 is $13 million 2007 $16 million.
com 102 Notes to the accounts 28 Total equity Equity shareholders funds Called Share up share premium Other Retained Minority Total capital account reserves earnings Total interests equity $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2007 156 299 96 1,417 1,968 392 2,360 Total recognised income and expense 4 348 352 120 472 Dividends 186 186 65 251 Share-based payments 7 7 7 i Shares issued on exercise of share options 6 6 6 At 30 September 2008 156 305 100 1,586 2,147 447 2,594 At 1 October 2006 143 26 84 836 1,089 223 1,312 Total recognised income and expense 12 380 392 96 488 Dividends 171 171 41 212 ii Conversion of the convertible bonds 11 205 216 216 iii Embedded derivative movement 371 371 371 Deferred tax on share-based payments 3 3 1 4 Other 4 4 26 i Shares issued on exercise of share options 1 32 33 33 Shares issued under the IFC iv option agreement 1 36 37 37 Minority interest arising on business acquisition 113 113 At 30 September 2007 156 299 96 1,417 1,968 392 2,360 Footnotes: i During the year 231,338 share options were exercised 2007 1,876,433 on which $6 million of cash was received 2007 $33 million.
ii In November 2006 the Company issued notice regarding the redemption of all outstanding convertible bonds.
Conversion of the convertible bonds resulted in the issuance of 10,576,900 shares with an associated nominal share capital of $11 million and the recognition of $205 million share premium.
iii As explained in note 3, the convertible bonds contained an embedded derivative, movements in the fair value of which were recognised through the income statement.
On conversion of the convertible bonds the embedded derivative was extinguished with all cumulative prior movements in fair value which had been taken through the income statement reversing in equity.
iv During the prior year 586,730 share options were exercised under the International Finance Corporation option agreement.
As the shares were issued at a discount only $35 million of cash was received.
Other reserves represent the capital redemption reserve of $88 million 2007 $88 million and a $12 million hedging reserve net of deferred tax 2007 $8 million.
Minority interests represent an 18% shareholding in Eastern Platinum Limited, Western Platinum Limited and Messina Limited throughout the year 2008 and 2007 and, from 1 February 2007, a 26% shareholding in Akanani Mining Pty Limited.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 103 29 Related party transactions The Groups related party transactions are summarised below: 2008 2007 $m $m Purchases from joint venture Pandora 99 78 Amounts due to joint venture Pandora 5 12 i Royalties payable to Bapo tribe 14 8 Amounts due to Bapo tribe 11 11 ii Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association 12 13 Amounts due from Historically Disadvantaged South African investors in Incwala 19 24 All related party transactions are priced on an arms length basis.
Footnotes: i The Bapo ba Mogale tribe own the land on which the Eastern Platinum mine is based.
ii The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association.
30 Capital commitments 2008 2007 $m $m Contracted for but not yet provided 73 98 31 Operating and finance leases The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below: Land and buildings 2008 2007 $m $m Operating leases which expire: Within one year 1 1 Between one and five years 2 3 3 4 www.
com 104 Notes to the accounts 32 Net debt as defined by the Group As at Foreign exchange As at 1 October Subsidiary and non cash 30 September 2007 acquired Cash flow movements 2008 $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 222 2 2 226 Overdrafts 1 1 221 3 2 226 Current borrowings 237 237 Non-current borrowings 359 170 529 Net debt as defined by the Group 375 70 2 303 As at Foreign exchange As at 1 October Subsidiary and non cash 30 September 2006 acquired Cash flow movements 2007 $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 61 20 134 7 222 Overdrafts 18 17 1 43 20 151 7 221 Current borrowings 237 237 Non-current borrowings 288 71 359 Convertible bonds 213 213 Net debt as defined by the Group 458 20 157 220 375 Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand, interest bearing loans and borrowings and convertible bonds.
On 15 November 2006 Lonmin Plc gave notice to force redemption of all outstanding convertible bonds at their principal amount.
This led to the issuance of 10,576,900 shares and a reduction in net debt as defined by the Group of $213 million.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Notes to the accounts 105 33 Business combinations On 26 January 2007 the Group acquired 94% of AfriOre Limited.
This increased to 96.5% on 8 February 2007 and to 100% on 16 February 2007.
AfriOres primary asset is a 74% stake in Akanani Mining Pty Limited which owns the Akanani PGM deposit.
The acquisition was accounted for with an effective date of 1 February 2007 using the acquisition method of accounting.
Since its acquisition AfriOre has only incurred exploration and evaluation expenditure which has been capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The assets and liabilities of AfriOre Limited and the fair values attributed to these were as follows: Accounting Book value policy Fair value Fair value on acquisition adjustment adjustment 2007 $m $m $m $m Intangible assets 13 13 611 611 Trade and other payables 5 5 Cash and cash equivalents 20 20 Deferred tax liability 173 173 Total assets of acquired entity 28 13 438 453 Minority interest 113 Fair value of assets acquired 340 Goodwill 73 Consideration paid 413 The fair value exercise recognised the assets of the AfriOre Limited Group at the fair value they would carry if they held tax benefits.
This resulted in the need to recognise a deferred tax liability of $173 million which in turn caused the creation of a goodwill balance of $73 million.
The total consideration paid for the acquisition of AfriOre Limited amounted to $413 million comprising cash consideration of $409 million, and expenses on the transaction of $4 million, all paid in the period.
Cash acquired with the entity amounted to $20 million resulting in net consideration paid of $393 million.
There have been no new business combinations in the 12 months to 30 September 2008.
34 Principal Group companies The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and or results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Interest in ordinary Country of share capital Company incorporation % Principal activities Eastern Platinum Ltd. South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Western Platinum Ltd. South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Akanani Mining Pty Limited South Africa 74.0 Subsidiary Mineral exploration A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
com 106 Lonmin Plc Company balance sheet as at 30 September 2008 2007 Note $m $m Fixed assets Tangible assets 36 1 1 Investments: 1,452 1,467 Shares in subsidiary undertakings 37 1,427 1,438 Other investments 38 25 29 Total fixed assets 1,453 1,468 Current assets Debtors 39 403 371 Cash at bank and in hand 15 12 Total current assets 418 383 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 40 721 966 Net current liabilities 303 583 Total assets less current liabilities 1,150 885 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 40 243 67 Bank loans and overdrafts 230 59 Other creditors 13 8 Net assets 907 818 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 41 156 156 Share premium account 41 305 299 Capital redemption reserve 41 88 88 Profit and loss account 41 358 275 Total shareholders funds equity 41 907 818 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 17 November 2008 and were signed on its behalf by: Sir John Craven Chairman Alan Ferguson Chief Financial Officer
