G L O S S A R Y 3E: three elements: platinum, palladium and gold.
Face advance: the average distance stope faces Ni: nickel.
advance per month: a measure of resource utilisation.
The grade at Anglo Platinum mines Oz: Troy ounce.
is measured as the combined content of the four most Flotation: in the flotation process, milled ore mixed Pd: palladium.
valuable precious metals: platinum, palladium, with water pulp is passed through a series of PGI: Platinum Guild International.
Various chemicals are added to the pulp in a sequence that renders the valuable minerals PGM: platinum group metals, six elemental metals of AAplc: Anglo American plc, registered in the UK.
hydrophobic water-repellent and the non-valuable the platinum group nearly always found in association ACP: Anglo Platinum Converting Process, used at minerals hydrophilic water-loving.
Air is dispersed with each other.
Some texts refer to PGE platinum Waterval Smelter complex in Rustenburg.
through the tanks and rises to the surface.
These metals are platinum, hydrophobic particles attach to the rising air bubbles After-tax operating profit as a percentage of palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium and osmium.
and are removed from the main volume of pulp as a average operating assets: net profit excluding net Platreef: the name of the ore mined at PPRust.
In this manner, various combinations of investment income and income from associates as a Pt: platinum.
flotation cells in series are utilised to produce a percentage of average operating assets.
concentrated stream of valuable mineral particles, Rand revenue per platinum ounce sold: net sales Aquarius: Aquarius Platinum South Africa Pty called the concentrate, and a waste pulp stream, revenue divided by platinum ounces sold.
Refined ounces: refined metal available for sale.
Furnance matte: product of smelting process.
Refining: process whereby impurities or unwanted Average operating assets: average of the aggregate Greenfields project: a project situated on a previously elements are removed from a metal in a refinery.
of total assets less capital work-in-progress, cash and underdeveloped mineral resources.
Anglo Platinums two refineries undertake different cash equivalents, Platinum Producers Environmental levels of refining.
g t: grams per tonne, the unit of measurement of Trust and investments at the beginning and end of the grade.
One gram per tonne is one part per million.
Regional Pothole Reef: this is Merensky Reef that has formed over a large area several square kilometres at Gross profit margin: gross profit on metal sales Base metal: a common metal that is not considered a lower stratigraphic position than normal and is a expressed as a percentage of gross sales revenue.
precious, such as copper, tin or zinc.
feature of the Union and Amandelbult mines.
HDSA: historically disadvantaged South African Built-up head grade: the total 4E grams produced Return on average shareholders equity: net profit from the concentrating process from concentrate, IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards.
expressed as a percentage of average shareholders metallics where applicable and tailings, divided by Immediately available ore reserves: ground equity.
available for mining without any further development.
SAMREC: the South African Mineral Resources Capital expenditure: total capital expenditure on In situ: the original, natural state of the ore body Committee.
mining and non-mining property, plant, equipment before mining or processing of the ore takes place.
Smelting: process of extracting metal from its ore JORC: the Australian Institute of Mining and through processes involving heating and melting.
Concentrating: the process of separating milled ore Metallurgys Joint Ore Reserves Committee Code.
into a waste stream tailings and a valuable mineral Stoping: operations directly associated with the stream concentrate by flotation.
The valuable kt: thousand tonnes.
minerals in the concentrate contain almost all the ktpm: thousand tonnes per month.
Stripping ratio: the number of units of unpayable base metal and precious metal minerals: these material that must be mined to expose one unit of ore. LHD: load-haul dump.
minerals are treated further by smelting and refining Sweepings: the final process in stoping operations, in to obtain the pure metals PGMs, Au, Ni and Cu.
Market capitalisation: number of ordinary shares in which the footwall is thoroughly cleaned to remove issue multiplied by the closing share price as quoted Cu: copper.
the last portion of broken ore and fines.
Current ratio: current assets as a ratio of current Tailings: that portion of the ore from which most of MCP: magnetic concentration plant.
the valuable material has been removed by Merensky Reef: a band in the Bushveld sequence, Debt:equity ratio: interest-bearing borrowings, concentrating and that is therefore low in value and often containing economic grades of PGMs.
including the short-term portion payable, as a ratio of rejected.
Milling: a process to reduce broken ore to a size at Tonne: metric ton, equal to 1,000 kg, unless otherwise which concentrating can be undertaken.
Decline: a generic term used to describe a shaft at an defined.
inclination below the horizontal and usually at the Mining area: the area for which a mining Total assets: the sum of non-current and current same angle as the dip of the reef.
authorisation right has been granted.
Development: any tunnelling operation that has as Ml: Million litres.
its object either exploration or exploitation.
Transition zone: the area on plan that defines the EBITDA: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation Net asset value: total assets less all liabilities, including change-over from Merensky Reef at its normal and amortisation.
deferred taxation, which equates to shareholders stratigraphic elevation down to Regional Pothole Effective tax rate: total income statement taxation as equity.
Reef at a lower stratigraphic elevation.
The area has an a percentage of profit before taxation.
irregular and constantly varying width.
Net asset value as a percentage of market Equivalent refined platinum: mine production and capitalisation: shareholders equity expressed as a UG2: a chromite layer in the Bushveld sequence, often purchases of metal in concentrate converted to percentage of market capitalisation.
containing economic values of PGMs.
equivalent refined platinum production using Anglo Net liquid assets: accounts receivable and cash and WBJV: Western Bushveld Joint Venture.
Platinums standard smelting and refining recoveries.
cash equivalents less current liabilities.
Xstrata: Xstrata South Africa Pty Limited.
ESOP: Anglo Platinums employee share ownership NOx emissions: emissions of nitrogen oxides from plan.
