A N N U A L F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S for the year ended 31 December PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on the historical-cost basis except for certain financial instruments that are fairly valued by marking to market.
Significant details of the Companys and the Groups accounting policies are set out below, which are consistent with those applied in the previous year, except where otherwise indicated.
The financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS of the International Accounting Standards Board, South African Statements of Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, the JSE Limiteds Listings Requirements and the South African Companies Act.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments In preparing the annual financial statements in terms of IFRS, the Groups management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions that may materially affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period and the related disclosures.
The actual results often vary from these estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates and assumptions concerning future events.
These estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, current and expected future economic conditions and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Critical accounting estimates Those estimates and assumptions that may result in material adjustments to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and related disclosures within the next financial year are discussed below: Metal inventory Work-in-progress is valued at the lower of net realisable value and the average cost of production or purchase less net revenue from sales of other metals, in the ratio of the contribution of these metals to gross sales revenue.
Production costs are allocated to platinum, palladium, rhodium and nickel joint products by dividing the mine output into total mine production costs, determined on a 12-month rolling average basis.
The quantity of ounces of joint products in work-in-progress is calculated based on the following factors: The theoretical inventory at that point in time which is calculated by adding the inputs to the previous physical inventory and then deducting the outputs for the inventory period.
The inputs and outputs include estimates due to the delay in finalising analytical values.
The estimates are subsequently trued up to the final metal accounting quantities when available.
The theoretical inventory is then converted to a refined equivalent inventory by applying appropriate recoveries depending on where the material is within the pipeline.
The recoveries are based on actual results as determined by the inventory count and are in line with industry standards.
Other than at the precious metal refinery, an annual physical count of work-in-progress is done, usually around February of each year.
The precious metal refinery is subject to a physical count every two years.
The annual physical count is limited to once per annum due to the dislocation of production required to perform the physical inventory count and the in-process inventories being contained in tanks, pipes and other vessels.
Once the results of the physical count are finalised, the variance between the theoretical count and actual count is investigated and recorded.
Thereafter the physical quantity forms the opening balance for the theoretical inventory calculation.
Consequently the estimates are refined based on actual results over time.
The nature of the process inherently limits the ability to precisely measure recoverability levels.
As a result, the metallurgical balancing process is constantly monitored and the variables used in the process are refined based on actual results over time.
Derivative instruments IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement is applied to all commodity contracts where the Group is unable to apply the own purchase, sale or usage requirement scope exemption in paragraph 5 of IAS 39.
Critical accounting judgments The following accounting policies have been identified as being particularly complex or involving subjective judgments or assessments: Consolidation of special-purpose entities A special-purpose entity established in a past transaction was not consolidated in the Group results.
The substance of the transaction has been assessed and, based on the results of this assessment, management has concluded that the Company does not control the activities of this entity.
This is due to the fact that the Company is not exposed to risks and rewards of the special-purpose entity.
Decommissioning and rehabilitation obligations The Groups mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment.
Management estimates the Groups expected total spend for the rehabilitation, management and remediation of negative environmental impacts at closure at the end of the lives of the mines.
The estimation of future costs of environmental obligations relating to decommissioning and rehabilitation is particularly complex and requires management to make estimates, assumptions and judgments relating to the future.
These estimates are dependent on a number of factors including assumptions around environmental legislation, life of mine estimates and discount rates.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 164 Critical accounting estimates and judgments continued Critical accounting judgments continued Asset lives The Groups assets, excluding mining development and infrastructure assets, are depreciated over their expected useful lives which are reviewed annually to ensure that the useful lives continue to be appropriate.
In assessing useful lives, technological innovation, product life cycles and maintenance programmes are taken into consideration.
Mining development and infrastructure assets are depreciated on a unit-of-production basis UOP.
As the calculation of the UOP depreciation is based on forecasted production which is calculated using various assumptions, including forecasted production, any changes in these assumptions may impact on the calculation.
Valuation of mineral rights The valuation of mineral rights is performed using the comparable transaction valuation methodology.
This methodology involves determining the in situ mineral reserves and resources of specific properties within the context of other mineral property valuation.
New accounting policies adopted Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements On 1 January 2008, the Group early adopted the disclosure requirements for the presentation of financial statements and the consequential amendments to IAS 34.
This standard affects the presentation of owner changes in equity and of comprehensive income and does not impact on recognition, measurement and disclosure of specific transactions as required by any other IFRSs.
The Group has presented a statement of comprehensive income which replaces the income statement and also includes all non-owner changes in equity.
All changes in equity resulting from transactions with owners in their capacity as owners are presented in the statement of changes in equity.
The following accounting policies were adopted and did not have any impact on the financial results of the Group for the year: IFRIC 12 Service Concessions On 1 January 2008, the Group adopted IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements.
This interpretation provides guidance to assist users in interpreting how IASB literature should be applied to arrangements where governments or other bodies grant contracts for the supply of public services to private entities.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes On 1 January 2008, the Group early adopted IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
This interpretation addresses accounting by entities that grant loyalty award credits to customers who buy other goods or services.
IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction On 1 January 2008, the Group adopted IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding requirement and the limit placed by paragraph 58 of IAS 19 on the measurement of the defined benefit asset or liability.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Amendment relating to Vesting Conditions and Cancellations On 1 January 2008, the Group early adopted the amendment to IFRS 2.
The amendment clarifies that the only vesting conditions are service conditions and performance conditions.
Other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
Consequently, under IFRS 2, features of a share-based payment that are not vesting conditions should be included in the grant date fair value of the share-based payment.
The fair value also includes marketrelated vesting conditions.
In addition, all cancellations, irrespective of the party cancelling, should receive the same accounting treatment.
Under IFRS 2, a cancellation of equity instruments is accounted for as an acceleration of the vesting period.
Therefore any amount unrecognised that would otherwise have been charged is recognised immediately.
Any payment made with the cancellation up to the fair value of the equity instrument is accounted for as the repurchase of an equity interest.
Any payment in excess of the fair value of the equity instrument granted is recognised as an expense.
IFRS 5 Amendment Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations On 1 January 2008, the Group early adopted the amendment to IFRS 5.
This amendment clarifies that once an entity is committed to a sale involving loss of control of a subsidiary that qualifies for held-for-sale classification under IFRS 5, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary should be classified as held for sale, even if the entity retains a non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the proposed sale.
This is consistent with the Groups interpretation of IFRS 5 in prior periods.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Puttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation On 1 January 2008, the Group early adopted the amendments to IAS 32.
As a result of these amendments, some financial instruments that currently meet the definition of a financial liability will now be classified as equity because they represent the residual interest in the net assets of the entity.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 165 A N N U A L F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S for the year ended 31 December PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES New accounting policies adopted continued IAS 39 Amendment Eligible Hedged Items On 1 January 2008, the Group early adopted the amendment to IAS 39 relating to eligible hedged items.
The amendment clarifies how the existing principles underlying hedge accounting should be applied in certain specific situations.
Impact of standards and interpretations not yet adopted At balance sheet date, the following accounting standards and interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 1 and IAS 27 Amendment Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate effective 1 January 2009 IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations effective 1 July 2009 IFRS 8 Operating Segments effective 1 January 2009 IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements effective 1 July 2009 IAS 28 Amendment Investments in Associates effective 1 January 2009 IAS 31 Amendment Investment in Joint Ventures effective 1 January 2009 Annual improvements to IFRSs published in May 2008 The Group in is the process of assessing the impact of IFRS 3, IFRS 8 and the annual improvements to the standards.
However, the other amendments are not expected to have any impact on the financial results of the Group.
At balance sheet date, the following accounting interpretations were in issue but not yet effective: IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners These interpretations are not expected to have any impact on the financial results of the Group.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the results and financial position of Anglo Platinum Limited, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries are entities in respect of which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of any subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included from the date control was acquired and up to the date control ceased to exist.
Where an acquisition of a subsidiary is made during the financial year, any excess or deficit of the purchase price compared to the fair value of the attributable net identifiable assets is recognised respectively as goodwill or as part of profit and accounted for as described in the goodwill accounting policy.
All intragroup transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised profits that arise between Group entities are also eliminated.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the net assets and profit for the financial year is attributed to the minority interest.
Any losses applicable to minority interests in excess of the minoritys interest are allocated against the interests of the parent, except to the extent that the minorities have a binding obligation and financial ability to cover losses.
Investment in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group exercises significant influence but which it does not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
These investments are accounted for using the equity method, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for under IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
The carrying amount of the investment in an associate in the balance sheet represents the cost of the investment, including goodwill arising on acquisition, the Groups share of post-acquisition retained earnings and any other movements in reserves as well as any long-term debt interests which in substance form part of the Groups net investment in the associate.
Where the Groups share of losses in the associates is in excess of its interest in that associate, it is not recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
The total carrying amount of the associate is reviewed for impairment when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
If an impairment is identified, it is recorded in the period in which the circumstances arose.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 166 Existing accounting policies continued 3.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and shares joint control over the strategic, financial and operating decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
The Groups interest in jointly controlled entities is accounted for through proportionate consolidation.
Under this method the Group includes its share of the joint ventures individual income and expenses, assets and liabilities in the relevant components of its financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Where a Group company undertakes its activities under a joint-venture arrangement directly, the Groups share of jointly controlled assets and any liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers is recognised in the financial statements of the relevant company and classified according to their nature.
Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests in jointly controlled assets are accounted for on an accrual basis.
Income from the sale or use of the Groups share of the output of jointly controlled assets is recognised when the revenue recognition criteria are met.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually and an impairment loss recognised is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
To the extent that the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity acquired exceeds the cost of acquisition, the excess is credited to net profit for the period.
Property, plant and equipment Mining Mine development and infrastructure costs are capitalised to capital work-in-progress and transferred to mining property, plant and equipment when the mining venture reaches commercial production.
Capitalised mine development and infrastructure costs include expenditure incurred to develop new mining operations and to expand the capacity of the mine.
Costs include interest capitalised during the construction period where qualifying expenditure is financed by borrowings and the discounted amount of future decommissioning costs.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on the unit-of-production basis.
Items of mine property, plant and equipment, excluding capitalised mine development and infrastructure costs, are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
Capitalised mine development and infrastructure costs are depreciated on a unit-of-production basis.
Depreciation is first charged on mining assets from the date on which they are available for use.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are withdrawn from use, or have no reasonable prospect of being recovered through use or sale, are regularly identified and written off.
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed at least annually, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Revenue derived during the project phase is recognised in the income statement and an appropriate amount of development costs is charged against it.
With respect to open pit operations, stripping costs incurred are deferred to the extent that they exceed the expected life-of-pit stripping ratio.
In instances where the in-period stripping ratio is below the expected life-of-pit ratios, an appropriate amount of deferred cost is written off.
However, where the pit profile is such that the actual cumulative stripping ratio is below the expected life-of-pit stripping ratio typically in the early years, no deferral takes place as this would result in the recognition of a liability for which there is no obligation.
This position is monitored and once the cumulative calculation reflects a debit balance, deferral commences.
Non-mining Non-mining assets are measured at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is charged on the straight-line basis over the useful lives of these assets.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 167 A N N U A L F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S for the year ended 31 December PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Existing accounting policies continued 5.
Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment An impairment review of property, plant and equipment is carried out when there is an indication that these may be impaired by comparing the carrying amount thereof to its recoverable amount.
The Groups operations as a whole constitute the smallest cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount thereof is the Groups market capitalisation adjusted for the carrying amounts of financial assets that are tested for impairment separately.
Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, the impairment charge is included in other net expenditure in order to reduce the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment to its recoverable amount.
The adjusted carrying amount is amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful life of property, plant and equipment.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if the carrying amount of these assets will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continued use.
This condition will only be regarded as met if the sale transaction is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for sale in its present condition.
Furthermore, for the sale to be highly probable, management must be committed to the plan to sell the asset or disposal group and the transaction should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within 12 months from date of classification.
Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amounts and their fair value less costs to sell.
Leases A finance lease transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the Group.
Assets subject to finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and equipment at fair value of the leased asset at inception of the lease, with the related lease obligation recognised at the same amount.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
Finance lease payments are allocated between finance cost and the capital repayment, using the effective interest method.
Minimum lease payments on operating leases are charged against operating profit on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost.
Inventories Refined metals Metal inventories are measured at the lower of cost, on the weighted average basis, or net realisable value.
The cost per ounce or tonne is determined as follows: Platinum, palladium, rhodium and nickel are treated as joint products and are measured by dividing the mine output into total mine production cost, determined on a 12-month rolling average basis, less net revenue from sales of other metals, in the ratio of the contribution of these metals to gross sales revenue.
Gold, copper and cobalt sulphate are measured at net realisable value.
Iridium and ruthenium are measured at a nominal value of R1 per ounce.
Work-in-progress Work-in-progress is valued at the average cost of production or purchase less net revenue from sales of other metals.
Production cost is allocated to joint products in the same way as is the case for refined metals.
Work-in-progress includes purchased and produced concentrate.
Stores and materials Stores and materials consist of consumable stores and are valued at cost on the first-in first-out FIFO basis.
Obsolete and redundant items are written off to operating costs.
Revenue recognition Revenue from the sale of metals and intermediary products is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
Gross sales revenue represents the invoiced amounts excluding value-added tax.
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Interest is recognised on a time proportion basis, which takes into account the effective yield on the asset over the period it is expected to be held.
Royalties are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividends declared The liability for dividends and related taxation thereon is raised only when the dividend is declared.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 168 Existing accounting policies continued 12.
Provisions A provision is recognised when there is a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Taxation The charge for current tax is based on the profit before tax for the year as adjusted for items, which are exempt or disallowed.
It is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the taxation effect is also recognised within equity.
Deferred tax is provided on the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised and the liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences or assessed or calculated losses can be utilised.
However, such assets or liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction other than in a business combination that affects neither the taxable income nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Research and exploration cost Research expenditure is written off when incurred.
Exploration expenditure is written off when incurred, except when it is probable that a mining asset will be developed for commercial production as a result of the exploration work.
In such cases, the capitalised exploration expenditure is amortised on a unit-of-production basis over the expected useful life of the constructed mining asset.
Capitalised exploration expenditure is assessed for impairment when there are indicators that these assets might be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the amount of the impairment if any.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in other net expenditure.
When an impairment subsequently reverses, the reversal is recognised in the income statement immediately.
Leased metal When metal is leased to fulfil marketing commitments and the settlement is through physical delivery of metal, the market value of the metal, at the inception date of the lease, is charged to the income statement as a purchase of metal cost and reflected as a current liability in the balance sheet.
The liability is measured at the fair value of the physical metal to be delivered to the counterparty.
The leasing costs associated with borrowed metal are charged on a time-proportional basis.
Financial instruments A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument in another entity.
The Groups financial instruments consist primarily of the following financial assets: non-current receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables: and the following financial liabilities: borrowings, preference shares, trade and other payables, and certain derivative instruments.
Fair value Where financial instruments are recognised at fair value, the instruments are measured at the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
Fair values have been determined as follows: Where market prices are available, these have been used.
Where there are no market prices available, fair values have been determined using valuation techniques incorporating observable market inputs or discounting expected cash flows at market rates.
The fair value of the trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and trade and other payables approximates its carrying amount due to the short maturity period of these instruments.
Effective interest method The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability and of allocating interest income or expense over the period of the instrument.
Effectively, this method determines the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or, if appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 169 A N N U A L F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S for the year ended 31 December PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Existing accounting policies continued 16.
Financial instruments continued Financial assets The Group classifies financial assets into the following categories: At fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
The classification of the financial assets is dependent on the purpose and characteristics of the particular financial assets and is determined at the date of initial recognition.
Management reassesses the classification of financial assets on a biannual basis.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the asset is either held for trading or is a derivative that does not satisfy the criteria for hedge accounting or is designated at FVTPL.
A financial asset is designated at FVTPL on initial recognition if this designation provides more useful information because: it eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency ie an accounting mismatch : or the financial asset is part of a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both, that is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk investment management strategy, and information regarding this grouping is reported internally to key management on this basis.
In addition, if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives, the entire contract can be designated at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are recognised at fair value.
Any subsequent gains or losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Financial assets which have been designated at FVTPL consist of trade receivables due in respect of sale of concentrate.
These financial assets have been designated at FVTPL.
The reason for this designation is that the receivables due from the third parties are based on the concentrate sold to them which is only priced three months into the future.
The pricing is therefore dependent on commodity and exchange rate movements in the interim period.
Consequently, the receivables are initially reflected at fair value.
They are then remeasured on a monthly basis based on the movement in the forward curves of commodities and exchange rates and any gains losses on the remeasurements are reflected in revenue.
Financial assets classified as held for trading comprise the foreign forward exchange contracts which are not designated as hedges in terms of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Loans and receivables Financial assets that are non-derivative with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any subsequent impairment is included in the determination of other net income.
Loans, trade and other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents with short-term maturities have been classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are considered as current if their maturity is within a year, otherwise they are reflected in non-current assets.
Held to maturity HTM Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Group has an intention and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity.
These financial assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Any subsequent impairment, where the carrying amount falls below the recoverable amount, is included in the determination of other net income.
The Group held no HTM instruments during the period or at year-end.
Available for sale AFS Other non-derivative financial assets are classified as AFS which are initially recognised at fair value.
Any subsequent gains or losses are recognised directly in equity, unless the impairment is permanent.
On disposal or impairment of the financial asset, all cumulative unrecognised gains or losses, which were previously reflected in equity, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Impairments Financial assets that are not held for trading or designated at FVTPL, are assessed for objective evidence of impairment at balance sheet date eg evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all the amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable.
If such evidence exists, the impairment for financial assets at amortised cost is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 170 Existing accounting policies continued 16.
Financial instruments continued Impairments continued The carrying amount of these financial assets, with the exception of trade receivables, is reduced by the impairment.
Trade receivables are reduced through an allowance account, with movements in the allowance account included in the determination of net income.
If a decline in fair value has been recognised in equity in respect of an AFS instrument and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, then the cumulative loss recognised in equity is reversed from equity and reflected in profit or loss even if the financial asset has not been derecognised.
Furthermore, impairment losses recognised in profit or loss on AFS instruments are reversed through profit or loss.
Classification between debt and equity Debt and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments An equity instrument represents a contract that evidences a residual interest in the net assets of an entity.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the liability is either incurred for trading or is a derivative that does not satisfy the criteria for hedge accounting or is designated at FVTPL.
A financial liability is designated at FVTPL on initial recognition if this designation provides more useful information because: it eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency ie an accounting mismatch : or the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both, that is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk investment management strategy, and information regarding this grouping is reported internally to key management on this basis.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL are recognised at fair value.
Financial liabilities which have been designated at FVTPL consist of trade creditors due in respect of purchase of concentrate.
These financial liabilities have been designated at FVTPL.
The reason for this designation is that these liabilties due to the third parties are based on the concentrate purchased from them which is only priced three months into the future.
The pricing is thus dependent on commodity and exchange rate movements in the interim period.
Consequently, the liability is initially reflected at fair value.
They are then remeasured on a monthly basis based on the movement in the forward curves of commodities and exchange rate and any gains losses on the remeasurements are reflected in cost of sales.
Financial liabilities which are regarded as held for trading comprise the foreign forward exchange contracts which have not been designated as hedges.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are recorded initially at the fair value of the consideration received, which is cost net of any issue costs associated with the borrowing.
These liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Borrowings, obligations under finance leases and trade and other payables have been classified as other financial liabilities.
Derivative instruments In the ordinary course of its operations, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in metal prices, volatility of exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
From time to time portions of these exposures are managed through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Derivatives are initially measured at cost.
All derivatives are subsequently marked-to-market at financial reporting dates and any changes in their fair values are included in other net income in the period to which they relate.
Commodity contracts that are entered into and continue to meet the Groups expected purchase, sale or usage requirements, which were designated for that purpose at their inception and are expected to be settled by delivery, are recognised in the financial statements when they are delivered into, and are not marked-to-market through net profit.
Commodity contracts that fall within the scope of IAS 39 are recognised and measured at fair value.
Gains and losses arising on all other contracts not spanning a reporting interval are recognised and included in the determination of other net income at the time that the contract expires.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 171 A N N U A L F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S for the year ended 31 December PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Existing accounting policies continued 16.
Financial instruments continued Derivative instruments continued Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss for the period.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or a forecasted transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the related gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
If an effective hedge of a forecasted transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the related gains or losses recognised in equity are recycled in profit or loss for the period in the same period when the hedged item affects earnings for the period.
A hedge of the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment is designated and accounted for as a cash flow hedge.
If a fair value hedge qualifies for hedge accounting, any changes in the fair value of the derivative, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in the income statement.
When a hedge expires, is sold, or no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gains or losses in equity at that time remain in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs, at which time it is recognised in the income statement.
When the forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses reflected in equity are immediately transferred to the income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the host contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Foreign currencies The South African rand is the functional currency of all of the operations of the Group, which reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the spot rate of exchange on the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Foreign exchange gains or losses arising from foreign exchange transactions are included in the determination of net profit.
Environmental rehabilitation provisions Estimated long-term environmental obligations, comprising pollution control, rehabilitation and mine closure, are based on the Groups environmental management plans in compliance with current technology, environmental and regulatory requirements.
Decommissioning costs When the asset reaches commercial production an estimate is made of future decommissioning costs.
The discounted amount of estimated decommissioning costs that embody future economic benefits is capitalised as a decommissioning asset and concomitant provisions are raised.
These estimates are reviewed annually and discounted using a pre-tax risk-free rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
The increase in decommissioning provisions, due to the passage of time, is charged to interest paid.
All other changes in the carrying amount of the provision subsequent to initial recognition are included in the determination of the carrying amount of the decommissioning asset.
Decommissioning assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lesser of 30 years or the expected benefit period.
Restoration costs Changes in the discounted amount of estimated restoration costs are charged to profit during the period in which such changes occur.
Estimated restoration costs are reviewed annually and discounted using a pre-tax risk-free rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
The increase in restoration provisions, due to the passage of time, is charged to interest paid.
Ongoing rehabilitation costs Expenditure on ongoing rehabilitation costs is recognised as an expense when incurred.
Platinum Producers Environmental Trust The Group contributes to the Platinum Producers Environmental Trust annually.
The Trust was created to fund the estimated cost of pollution control, rehabilitation and mine closure at the end of the lives of the Groups mines.
Contributions are determined on the basis of the estimated environmental obligation over the life of a mine.
Contributions made are reflected in non-current investments held by the Platinum Producers Environmental Trust if the investments are not short term.
If the investments are short term and highly liquid, the amounts are reflected as cash and cash equivalents, but the restrictions are disclosed.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are charged to interest paid.
When borrowings are utilised to fund qualifying capital expenditure, such borrowing costs are capitalised in the period in which the capital expenditure and related borrowing costs are incurred.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 172 Existing accounting policies continued 20.
Employee benefits Short-term employee benefits Remuneration paid to employees in respect of services rendered during a reporting period is recognised as an expense in that reporting period.
Accruals are made for accumulated leave and are measured at the amount that the Group expects to pay when the leave is used.
Termination benefits Termination benefits are charged against income when the Group is demonstrably committed to terminating the employment of an employee or group of employees before their normal retirement date.
Post-employment benefits Defined contribution plans Retirement, provident and pension funds Contributions to defined contribution plans in respect of services rendered during a reporting period are recognised as an expense in that period.
Defined benefit plans Post-retirement medical aid liability The post-retirement medical aid liability is recognised as an expense systematically over the periods during which services are rendered using the projected unit credit method.
Independent actuarial valuations are conducted annually.
Actuarial gains and losses arising as a result of experience adjustments and or the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised as income or expenditure as and when they occur.
Any increase in the present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service during the period is charged to operating profit.
The expected return on plan assets and the expected increase during the period in the present value of plan liabilities are included in interest income and interest expense.
Past-service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past-service costs and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled and cash-settled share-based instruments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled sharebased payments is expensed over the vesting period, based on managements estimate of shares that are expected to eventually vest.
A liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the fair value determined at each balance sheet date for cash-settled share-based payments.
Fair value is measured using the binomial option-pricing model.
The fair values used in the model have been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Black economic empowerment BEE transactions When the Group disposes of a portion of its subsidiary operation to a BEE company at a discount, this is treated as a share-based payment in accordance with the principles of AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic Empowerment BEE Transactions.
The IFRS 2 charge is calculated as the difference between the fair value of the asset disposed of and the proceeds received.
This charge is included in the determination of profit and loss on the disposal.
Treasury shares The carrying value of the shares held by the Group Employee Share Participation Scheme the Kotula Trust is reflected as treasury shares and shown as a reduction in shareholders equity.
Segmental information The Group produces PGMs primarily in South Africa.
The risks and rewards associated with the individual operations are not sufficiently dissimilar to warrant identification of separate geographical segments.
Therefore, the directors consider that the primary reporting format is by business segment.
Two business segments are identified.
Firstly, mining, extraction and production of platinum group metals PGMs and, secondly, the purchase of metals for further treatment and refining.
Costs are allocated to business segments on a full absorption costing basis.
Where pricing arrangements with customers are not at quoted spot prices, these revenues are allocated to the mined segment, unless similar pricing arrangements are contained in purchase arrangements.
