F O R M O F P RO X Y ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa Date of incorporation: 13 July 1946 Registration number: 1946 022452 06 JSE code: AMS, ISIN: ZAE000013181 Anglo Platinum or the Company To be completed ONLY by ordinary shareholders who have not dematerialised their shares, Central Securities Depository Participants CSDP nominee companies brokers nominee companies and shareholders who have dematerialised their shares and who have elected own-name registration in the subregister through a CSDP.
Shareholders who have dematerialised their shares and not elected own-name registration in the subregister through a CSDP must NOT complete this form of proxy and must provide their CSDP or broker with their voting instructions in terms of the custody agreement entered into between such shareholders and the CSDP or broker.
Shareholders who have not dematerialised their shares, or have dematerialised their shares and have elected own-name registration in the subregister through a CSDP, must complete this form of proxy and return it to the registrars of Anglo Platinum, Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited in South Africa, or Capita Registrars Limited in the United Kingdom, so as to be received by not later than 14:00 on Friday, 27 March 2009.
I We of name in block letters please address in block letters Telephone: Telephone: work area code and number home area code and number being the holder s or custodians of ordinary shares in Anglo Platinum, hereby appoint see note 1 : 1. or failing him her: 2. or failing him her: 3.
The chairman of the annual general meeting, as my our proxy to attend and speak for me us and on my our behalf at the annual general meeting of the Company to be held on Monday, 30 March 2009, at 14:00 on the 18th Floor, 55 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, South Africa, and at any adjournment thereof, and to vote or abstain from voting as indicated below on the resolutions to be considered at the said meeting in respect of the shares registered in my our name s in accordance with the following instructions see note 2 : ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 247 F O R M O F P RO X Y VOTING INSTRUCTION FORM In favour of Against Abstain ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To adopt the Group annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 2.
Resolution to re-elect the following directors: 2.1 To re-elect K D Dlamini as a director of the Company 2.2 To re-elect B A Khumalo as a director of the Company 2.3 To re-elect N F Nicolau as a director of the Company 2.4 To re-elect B Nqwababa as a director of the Company 2.5 To re-elect T A Wixley as a director of the Company 3.
To appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors of the Company to hold office for the year ending 31 December 2009 To appoint Graeme Berry as the designated auditor SPECIAL BUSINESS 4.
Special resolution to permit the Company and or its subsidiaries to acquire shares in the Company 5.
Special resolution authorising financial assistants to be granted by the Company for the purchase or subscription of shares to meet the requirements of the Bonus Share Plan.
Ordinary resolutions to: 6.1 Place the unissued ordinary shares under the control of the directors 6.2 Approve the non-executive directors fees for the forthcoming year 6.3 Adopt and implement the new Bonus Share Plan Incentive Scheme 6.4 Confer specific authority on the directors by placing the unissued ordinary shares under their control to meet the requirements of the Bonus Share Plan 6.5 Authorise the signature of documentation to give effect to the resolutions Please indicate with an X in the spaces above how you wish your votes to be cast.
If no indication is given, the proxy will vote or abstain at his discretion.
Any member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote in his stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Every person present and entitled to vote at an annual general meeting shall, on a show of hands, have one vote only, but on a poll, every share shall have one vote.
Voting will be conducted by poll, electronically.
Please read the notes appearing on the reverse hereof.
Signed on 2009 Signature s Assisted by Full name s of signatory ies if signing in a representative capacity see note 7.2 please use block letters ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 248 NOTES 1.
A shareholder may insert the name of a proxy or the names of two alternative proxies of the shareholders choice in the space s provided, with or without deleting the words the chairman of the annual general meeting, but any such deletion must be signed in full by the shareholder.
The person whose name appears first on the form of proxy and has not been deleted and who is present at the annual general meeting will be entitled to act as proxy to the exclusion of those whose names follow.
In the event that no names are indicated, the chairman of the annual general meeting shall act as proxy.
A shareholders instructions to the proxy must be indicated by the insertion of an X in the appropriate box provided.
Failure to comply with the above will be deemed to authorise the proxy to vote or to abstain from voting at the annual general meeting as he she deems fit in respect of all the shareholders votes exercisable thereat.
Where the proxy is the chairman, such failure shall be deemed to authorise the chairman to vote in favour of the resolutions to be considered at the annual general meeting in respect of all the shareholders votes exercisable thereat.
In order to be effective, completed proxy forms must reach the Companys South African Registrars, Johannesburg, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting, or the offices of the United Kingdom Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays.
The completion and lodging of this form of proxy shall in no way preclude the shareholder from attending, speaking, or voting in person at the annual general meeting to the exclusion of any proxy appointed in terms hereof.
Should this form of proxy not be completed and or received in accordance with these notes, the chairman may accept or reject it, provided that in respect of its acceptance the chairman is satisfied as to the manner in which the shareholder wishes to vote.
Documentary evidence establishing the authority of a person signing this form of proxy in a representative or other legal capacity such as a power of attorney or other written authority must be attached to this form of proxy unless previously recorded by the Companys South African or United Kingdom Registrars or waived by the chairman of the annual general meeting.
The chairman shall be entitled to decline to accept the authority of a person signing the proxy form: 7.1 under a power of attorney, or 7.2 on behalf of a company unless that persons power of attorney or authority is deposited at the offices of the Companys South African or United Kingdom Registrars not less than 48 hours before the meeting.
Where shares are held jointly, all joint holders are required to sign the form of proxy.
The shareholders parent or guardian must assist a minor unless the relevant documents establishing his her legal capacity are produced or have been registered by the Companys South African or United Kingdom Registrars.
Any alteration or correction made to this form of proxy must be signed in full and not initialled by the signatory ies.
On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or represented by proxy shall have only one vote, irrespective of the number of shares he she holds or represents.
On a poll, every shareholder present in person or represented by proxy shall have one vote for every share held by such shareholder.
Voting will be conducted by poll electronically.
Each delegate present in person, is registered within a matter of seconds via keypad and smartcard.
The system automatically links shareholders to their vote profiles, recording their votes and displaying results as each resolution closes.
Final results are displayed within seconds.
