15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 41 41 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and parent Company Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Each of the persons who are Directors at the date that this Annual Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Report is approved confirm that: Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors b he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a have also elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Group and parent Company audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of aware of that information.
the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
The Directors of Marstons PLC are listed on pages 24 and 25.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Ralph Findlay Paul Inglett state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as Chief Executive Finance Director adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by the IASB, and with regard to the parent Company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE DIRECTION DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
