27 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility Meggitt PLC recognises its responsibility to its Fig 1 Measurement shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers Electricity consumption kWh 82,745,151 and the wider community and, in January 2007, kWh 1,000 revenue 122.75 its main board approved the adoption of a corporate responsibility CR policy.
This sets out the values Carbon dioxide emitted tonnes 56,995 underpinning the way we manage social, ethical tonnes 1,000 revenue 0.08 and environmental issues see www.
com Volatile organic compounds emitted tonnes 59.95 tonnes 1,000 revenue 0.00009 Meggitts CR policy 3 Water consumption m 395,638 Meggitt is committed to: 3 m 1,000 revenue 0.59 upholding sound corporate governance principles: providing a supportive, rewarding and safe work Non-hazardous waste generated tonnes 2,607 environment: tonnes 1,000 revenue 0.004 conducting business relationships in an ethical Non-hazardous waste recycled % 32.11 manner: supporting communities in which we operate: Hazardous waste generated tonnes 421 minimising the impact of products and processes tonnes 1,000 revenue 0.0006 on the surrounding environment: Accident incident rate number encouraging our contractors and suppliers of accidents per 100,000 employees 2,669.18 to adopt and implement these principles: and acting as a responsible supplier to support Average training hours per employee 26.27 our customers.
For our stakeholders, this means financial probity, CR responsibility effective risk identi cation: robust internal and The board delegates responsibility for overseeing external reporting and control systems: dynamic CR to the Group Corporate Affairs Director.
Managing business continuity plans: safe working environments: directors, presidents and general managers are independent audits: internationally accredited responsible for implementing local CR activities.
environmental management systems: training and modern operational practices: lasting customer Governance and compliance relationships: and the social and economic enrichment of local communities.
Meggitt has always conducted its business based on sound principles of corporate governance as set Measurement out in the Directors Statement page 36.
The groups cash in ow from operating In 2006, our businesses reported for the first time activities in 2006 continues to show Meggitts ability on a number of CR metrics so that we can measure to convert a very high percentage of operating pro t. our performance as responsible corporate citizens, benchmark ourselves against peers and competitors Business continuity and identify areas for improvement.
Fig 1 opposite comprises a selection of the CR metrics collected.
In 2006, we continued to develop our business These and other measurements are available at continuity management plans, integrating them www.
com, covering areas such as employee with a new risk identi cation and management retention and ISO14001 certi cation.
process based on the latest risk evaluation models.
Five Meggitt sites implemented business continuity plans for the first time and 24 developed and enhanced existing plans.
28 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility continued Environment, health and safety Ethical business As a manufacturer, health, safety and environmental In 2005, the board adopted an ethics and business issues are a CR cornerstone.
In 2006, Meggitt conduct policy and code of conduct see www.
continued its commitment to the Sustainable com, appointing a Group Ethics and Business Conduct Aviation Strategy of the Society of British Aerospace Manager to implement it and drive progress.
We are Companies SBAC where progress has been made rmly committed to integrity and honesty in all our on climate change, local environmental impacts and relationships with stakeholders and expect the highest governance and communications see 2006s report standards of ethical behaviour from our employees at www.
We also launched an environmental, health and safety During 2006, nearly all Meggitts 6,400 employees council so our UK businesses can share experience, undertook training in Meggitts Code of Conduct information, training, education and resources and and, to keep awareness high, we launched a series reduce the cost of investigating and complying with new of five-minute videos called Ethical Moments.
legislation and developing new processes and systems.
This will run throughout 2007 highlighting various ethical issues, supplemented by material, resources Over two thirds of Meggitts sites are ISO14001 certi ed, and policy development.
with others making progress towards achieving this environmental management accreditation.
Minimising Working at Meggitt the environmental impact of operations continues with a programme of independent audits.
Ten Meggitt Our international business has a diverse workforce sites were audited in 2006.
We regularly track progress which enjoys equal opportunity employment policies on actions identi ed following environmental audits.
and access to educational opportunities such as Meggitts environmental policy was updated and apprenticeships, MBAs, graduate courses and approved by the main board in December 2006 and leadership development programmes.
is published on our website.
Local communities We promote the health, safety and welfare of our employees and site visitors with safety training and We make an important economic contribution to protective equipment.
In 2006, we continued to roll local communities.
Salaries, tax and social security out the groups health and safety audit programme.
contributions across the group amounted to 250 A further ten Meggitt sites were audited in 2006, million in 2006 around 37% of revenue and there with three sites receiving a follow-up visit from their are many examples of donations, sponsorship and 2005 audit.
We regularly track progress on action employees time provided to local organisations.
points arising from health and safety audits.
The future Customers and suppliers Meggitt will continue to develop and implement Supplying safety and mission critical products requires CR practices that bene t our businesses, employees, the highest standards of performance, delivery and customers, suppliers and local communities, quality if we are to sustain and win new business.
supporting Meggitts new code of conduct and training We promote a robust quality ethos accordingly.
We see ethical, legal and majority of our sites have been certi ed to IS09001, regulatory compliance as a key business enabler, the international quality management standard.
ensuring those with whom we deal experience the same high degree of probity we expect from them.
Our relationships with aerospace and defence customers are well established and many Meggitt businesses receive regular customer commendations and performance awards.
29 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility in action Environment, health The group received a special commendation for saw its air pollution reduce by operating a catalytic and safety the Best Commitment to Environmental and Social emission control unit, destroying over 90 per cent Responsibility in the UKs South West Financial and of volatile organic compounds emitted.
During 2006, many Meggitt businesses worked towards Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems environmental environmental impact reduction.
Serck Aviation, UK action improved business ef ciency and financial implemented a recycling programme for paper and returns when they renewed lagging on steam cardboard that signi cantly reduced the amount of pipelines at a cost of 134,000 but an annual saving general non-hazardous waste disposed to land ll.
Better boiler control maximised the re-use Meggitt Xiamen Sensors & Controls, China reduced of waste process gas and minimised the number of electricity usage by 16.7 per cent during 2006, saving boilers needed, saving 68,000 per annum.
Meggitt Safety Systems, US replaced the NACESA, Spain reduced wastewater to zero after solvents dichlromethane and isopropyl alcohol with installing an evaporator system.
Dunlop Bestobell, UK more  materials.
Customers and Vibro-Meter Inc and Whittaker Controls received Vibro-Meter, Switzerland was commended by the suppliers Gold and Silver Medallist Awards respectively in Executive Vice President of Airbus Customer Services June 2006 from the Defense Logistics Agencys for having exceptional customer support and for being Defense Supply Centre in Richmond, Virginia for consistently one of the Top 10 achievers in the Airbus value, quality and delivery.
supplier support ratings of 2001 to 2005.
Ethical business Meggitt sponsored Californias Loyola Marymount Meggitt participates in the informal UK Defence Universitys intercollegiate business ethics Industry Anti-Corruption Forum, supported by the competition in which student teams present complex SBAC and the Defence Manufacturers Association.
business cases to judges who are business leaders.
Working at Meggitt Meggitt Xiamen Sensors & Controls, China has Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems, Coventry was been certi ed as a Xiamen Excellent Employer named one of the best training providers in the UK based on excellent performance in labour law by the Adult Learning Inspectorate.
compliance, people and operations management and recommendations by employees, votes from citizens and audits by experts.
Local communities In 2006, Meggitt PLC created The Meggitt Fund, a Dunlop Aerospace Braking Systems has joined the grant for the Community Foundation for Bournemouth, Warwickshire Wildlife Trust, a local organisation Poole and Dorset which supports community initiatives dedicated to preserving local wildlife.
such as the Butchers Coppice charity, which enables disadvantaged young people to pursue a range of outdoor activities.
