CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION A structured programme of staff training and workshop The Board takes regular account of the signi cance of social, seminars is also carried out.
Employees at every level are environmental and ethical matters to the business of the encouraged to develop their skills and quali cations.
A variety of Company and identi es value arising from those matters as internally managed development programmes are available and, well as opportunities to enhance value that may arise from in certain regions, the Group offers a tuition support programme them.
The Group Risk Management Committee has identifor external courses.
The principles of the national standard ed and assessed the Companys signi cant short and long of best practice in employee development and involvement term risks.
The Board believes it has received adequate inare being followed in the countries in which we operate.
Best formation to ensure that the Company has effective systems practice in terms of labour standards is also upheld.
in place for managing the Groups key risks.
The Groups During the year, grants of options were made under the signi cant Risk Factors are included on pages 29 to 30.
Long Term Incentive Plan in which 31 employees participate, and under the Sharesave Scheme in which 100 employees, EMPLOYEES other than directors, participate by entering into a three or Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc operates in various five year savings contract.
countries and values highly the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of its people.
The Group strives to build on the CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS qualities inherent in its global environment by encouraging During the year, the Groups strategic service vision was people with different views, styles and approaches.
launched on a global basis, by way of an initiative called The Companys policy is to provide equality of Outstanding Service Experience OSE.
opportunity for all employees without discrimination and It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree the continues to encourage the employment, training and terms of payment with suppliers at the commencement of advancement of disabled persons in accordance with their the trading or contractual relationship and to operate within abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can be employed such terms subject to satisfactory completion of the suppliers in a safe working environment.
It does not follow any particular guidelines if possible, be found for any employee who becomes disabled established by third parties.
The effect of the Groups during the course of employment.
payment policy is that its trade creditors at the financial yearThe Group is committed to a policy of involvement end represent 22 days purchases 2005: 23 days.
At the year by keeping its employees fully informed regarding its end the Company had no trade creditors 2005: nil.
Employees are encouraged to The Board has adopted a Business Integrity Policy present their suggestions and views at staff consultation which provides standards on relationships with suppliers groups at each location and the Group believes that the and customers.
This requires directors and employees to act dissemination of appropriate information is key to achieving honestly, with integrity, objectivity, professional competence success and motivation.
Global Connect is the in-house and due care.
quarterly publication about the Group, which provides communication to staff.
48 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT report on energy use, water use and waste management.
The Safety and environmental management are key management Company will continue to investigate ways to improve the responsibilities.
The Groups management is responsible ef ciency of waste disposal and recycling whilst minimising for ensuring that reasonable and practical steps are taken any adverse effect on the environment.
The Company only to maintain a safe and healthy environment for employees, uses refrigeration equipment which complies with current public visitors, guests and contractors.
Obsolete equipment is removed by nominated area is measured and judged in the same way as other key waste disposal companies for safe disposal.
Staff are trained to meet the needs of To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies in respect disabled customers.
of health and safety and the environment, Wong Hong Ren, Health and safety is managed on a practical level by the in his capacity as Interim Group Chief Executive Of cer, has established regional health and safety management groups.
been identi ed as the Board member responsible for both The Audit Committee receives a report from all regions at each areas.
The Company has been a member of the FTSE4Good meeting.
Specialist health and safety and food safety consultants UK Index of socially responsible companies since the indexs have been appointed to provide advice and guidance in all establishment in July 2001. aspects of compliance with relevant legislation and to monitor, audit and review systems to ensure compliance with such COMMUNITIES legislation.
Training needs are being met at all levels.
The Group has extensive links with the community through The Board has a formal environmental policy in place partnerships established by the hotels and at a corporate level.
and a structured Environmental Management System.
The Across the Group, staff and management are involved with a Group is committed to meeting regulatory requirements in the range of charitable organisations.
The Group gave 44,183 different countries in which the Group operates, minimising 2005: 40,975 to charities during the period.
The Groups the use of energy, water and materials, managing effectively policy is to consider charities that improve the economic or the waste and emissions produced and managing any speci c social wellbeing of ordinary people or those who are deprived environmental risks associated with any of its operations.
Based in some way within the Groups area of operation including on environmental impact assessments, speci c targets are set for local and national charities.
The Group made no political environmental improvement and progress is monitored against contributions during 2006. these targets.
Environmental management is integrated into existing health and safety structures established by the Board.
The Group operates strict controls to reduce consumption of energy, for example by installing low energy light bulbs and water saving showerheads in all its hotels.
Hotels have energy committees that gather information on a monthly basis and 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2006
