People and corporate responsibility We place enormous importance on attracting and retaining quality people and we take our commitment to the wider community very seriously.
People Employee engagement We employ more than 6,000 people around The PPO programme has demonstrated the world.
We are a product-led Company how much our employees feel committed and the core competence of our employees to the business and how they want to be is in developing and delivering software involved going forward.
The ability of products and solutions for customers management to respond to the needs and in healthcare and banking.
Nearly 40% suggestions of employees and for employees of our people are employed in product to be engaged in the way the Company development and many have been with plans its future, is very important.
We have Misys for more than 10 years.
People at conducted employee engagement surveys Misys are very proud of the products they within our individual businesses to identify create, sell and service and of their employee views on key issues.
These have market knowledge and that enthusiasm, shown that we have more to do in order commitment and expertise is a competitive to further enhance engagement and our differentiator for us.
Employees ideas about how we can improve the business are important to us and so such surveys are a meaningful tool.
We continuously look for ways to increase employee engagement Peak performance and will act upon the findings of surveys, in consultation with our employees.
In the In 2004, Misys introduced the Peak new financial year we intend to carry out Performance Organisation PPO concept.
our first Group-wide employee survey Over the last two years employees from which will give us a clear benchmark across the Group have used the PPO from which to move forward.
approach to identify common characteristics, develop a set of shared beliefs and We place great importance on the establish a common purpose across our quality and regularity of the Companys core business areas.
Peak Performance communications with employees.
Over the is about achieving and sustaining success last 12 months we have increased our as a business through working in a more internal communications activities at all cohesive way.
We now have a very clear levels within the Group to communicate purpose and sense of direction and PPO information about changes in our business has helped us to develop useful signposts and their market context, to explain for all employees to follow.
We have also business strategy and priorities and to defined a goal which encapsulates a set elicit employee input.
We regularly hold of key performance indicators for the formal and informal employee briefings as Company.
These are to lead the software well as management and sales conferences industry in our chosen markets in terms to update and obtain feedback from of customer satisfaction, growth and Total employees on all aspects of the business Shareholder Return.
as well as making use of Company email, Page 28 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 During the year we launched PEAK, our first quarterly Groupwide publication for all employees webcasts and Intranet sites to provide People with disabilities are given the same programme in our Manila and Bangalore information, news and interviews with consideration as others when applying development centres.
During the year we also for jobs.
Where employees become launched PEAK, our first quarterly disabled, every effort will be made to retain We aim to recruit 15 graduates in each Group-wide publication for all employees, them in their current role or to explore location, with the focus on creating a which encourages employees to provide possibilities for retraining or redeployment pipeline of technical talent.
Through the success stories about Misys for wider within the Group.
graduate programme we are establishing promotion around the Group.
We regard relationships with local universities where communications with employees, as with students are gaining technical skills all key stakeholders, as a two-way process closely related to the capabilities we need and we welcome and act on feedback.
Development of key technical skills now and in the future.
The programme will create a pool of home-grown Misys talent, We are also committed to encouraging The quality of our employees has a direct skilled in the programming languages employee share ownership.
For many years effect on the quality of our products, vital to our business.
After the 12 month we have operated tax efficient savingsour relationships with customers and programme our graduates will have a related share option plans sharesave ultimately our financial performance.
clear understanding of the Misys culture, plans for all eligible UK employees and Wherever we operate we ensure our our direction and how they can contribute.
for overseas employees in jurisdictions people get access to the training and where it is practicable to do so.
Cashdevelopment they need to remain at the based phantom share option plans, which cutting edge of technology.
operate in a similar manner to sharesave Governance plans, are offered where local regulations We have made very strong progress with mean such schemes are not practicable.
training and development of our people in Our approach to corporate governance Employees are also frequently provided our development centres around the world matters is described in the Corporate with information about benefits such and we have had development capability governance report on pages 44 to 47. as pensions.
in certain countries for more than 15 years.
Misys is very mindful of its role, impact We are very much an international Company and responsibilities in the communities it and our approach to offshoring has always operates in as well as the wider global focused on quality and efficiency rather community.
Employment policies than just cost management.
Today, the employees in our Manila and Bangalore Misys respects the human rights of all centres of excellence are some of the employees and is committed to the most experienced, knowledgeable and Code of Ethics principles of equal opportunity in all skilled in the Company and are critical employment practices, policies and to our competitiveness.
We believe it is essential that Misys, our procedures.
We treat all employees and job employees, advisers and agents meet a applicants fairly and on merit regardless Competition for the best talent is tough high ethical standard wherever we operate.
of gender, sexual orientation, age, race, in these areas and we are investing in Ethical conduct promotes trust and nationality, physical ability, political beliefs substantial recruitment campaigns.
encourages collaboration and we are or religion.
We seek to attract the ablest Excellent graduates are particularly committed to conducting business with candidates from the widest pool of relevant important to our future and we are integrity.
We have a clear Code of Ethics, talent.
We do not tolerate harassment or rolling out a new graduate recruitment a Whistleblowing Policy and reporting discrimination of any kind.
mechanisms enabling all employees to Page 29 People and corporate responsibility continued 300 employees in Raleigh, US, were involved in organising and taking part in the local Triangle Race in support of breast cancer research report concerns to their line manager, In 2004 an external international Formulate and establish an effective through the legal or HR department, or consultancy undertook an environmental, monitoring and evaluation procedure to a Board member.
health and safety audit of key Misys sites in the United Kingdom, United States Formulate and establish a procedure to Our Code of Ethics and Whistleblowing and India and reported to the Board, determine and gather baseline data in Policy are published on www.
concluding that those key sites were respect of EH&S performance, including substantially compliant with all relevant objective and target setting for the Group legislation.
In 2005 06 we extended the scope of the audit to include Misys Formulate and establish an effective Environment, health and safety locations in Hong Kong, Manila and compliance programme Singapore.
The findings are due to be Misys is committed to developing and reported to the Board in the current year.
Review and produce an up-to-date EH&S maintaining sound environmental, health policy policies for the Group and safety standards across all operations.
Established in March 2005, our We depend on the hard work, commitment Environmental, Health and Safety Working Establish a training matrix and outline and trust of our employees.
We recognise Group supports the Board in meeting its minimum training requirements for the our legal responsibilities to employees, legal obligations in respect of employee Group on EH&S matters subcontractors and visitors to Misys health, safety and welfare at work and premises and we seek to ensure their environmental issues.
The group works to In 2005 06 the Group made good progress safety and well being in the work place.
identify risks and process improvements, against these objectives.
We also recognise our commitments to and to ensure critical improvements are the wider community with regard to delivered Company-wide.
It is sponsored environmental performance and always by the Finance Director, chaired by the seek to reduce any impacts our operations Company Secretary and its members FTSE4Good may have.
consist of key facilities managers from around the business.
The group met four Misys is a constituent member of the For the first time we are evaluating times between 1 June 2005 and 31 May FTSE4Good Index.
Created by the our environmental, health and safety 2006 and met twice in the previous year.
independent financial index company FTSE performance across every one of our Group, the index identifies and facilitates businesses and locations.
Our aim for investment in companies that meet globally the medium term is to develop clear recognised corporate responsibility and consistent environmental reporting Objectives of the Environmental, Health standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good throughout the Company, with and Safety Working Group Index Series are doing more to manage their environmental factors included in all social, ethical and environmental impacts key operational decision making.
Formulate and establish a formal and are better positioned to capitalise on management structure to ensure the the benefits of responsible business practice.
implementation of Environmental, Health & Safety EH&S issues Page 30 Misys plc Annual Report 2006 The Misys Foundation has funded 267 students at university from 1998 to 2007 Purchase of ICT equipment through grants Misys and the community Other community involvement given to educational institutions, notably primary schools with limited funds.
Misys main community contribution is In addition to its support for the Misys through the involvement of many of its Foundation, the Company donates to many General grants to support special employees in a wide variety of charitable other charities and causes, and supports projects where there is a broader activities and through the Misys Charitable employee giving and involvement.
This contribution towards ICT education.
year, for example: In total, the Misys Foundation has funded During the year the Company donated 267 students at university from 1998 through US$20,000 to the Hurricane Katrina to 2007, with 65 of these scholarships appeal fund.
Misys employees raised The Misys Charitable Foundation awarded this year.
The Foundation has a further US$66,583 for the fund.
donated more than 1m since it was The Misys Charitable Foundation was established and in 2005 06 gave 170,000 of The Company will re-launch its Give As established in 1997 to help improve funding to scholarships.
You Earn scheme in the United Kingdom education in information and during 2006, and will make funds of communications technology ICT worldA further 67,500 of funding was given up to 100,000 in total available for wide.
It is 100% funded by Misys plc but to nine schools this year, five of which matched giving to specified charities is run independently of the Company.
were nominated for support by Misys designated by the Company.
The Company provided a further 100,000 employees.
The Foundation encourages funding to the Foundation in 2005 06, in the Companys employees to nominate 300 employees in our Healthcare line with our commitment to donate at schools for such support.
Support business in Raleigh, United States, were least 100,000 each year for five years was also given to Voluntary Service involved in organising and taking part in from 2003 onwards.
In 2004 05 the Organisation VSO for the provision of the local Triangle Race, in support of Company donated 124,453 to the funding for a teacher from the United breast cancer research.
Kingdom to develop the IT curriculum in secondary schools in Ethiopia.
In addition, 200 employees in Raleigh and 50 The Foundation provides three types redundant IT hardware from Misys was employees in Richmond, United States, of support: donated to Digital Links International, a provided community support during the charity that arranges the refurbishment holiday season, helping needy families Scholarships provided through educational and dispatch of equipment to needy with clothing, personal items, toys.
institutions to enable exceptional schools in Africa.
The Foundation also students in financial need to undertake covered the transport and training costs undergraduate and postgraduate studies involved.
During the year the Foundation in ICT-related disciplines.
gave further donations of 500 to a number of causes.
