About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review CSR | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary nature.
The Forum meets on a quarterly basis and has been Corporate social responsibility enhanced this year to include further Executive Committee members Mitchells & Butlers operates in a highly regulated industry and and a wider coverage of the Companys business areas.
recognises that it has an inherent duty under its licences to ensure the responsible operation of its premises for guests, employees and The Board also receives regular updates on significant legislative the wider community.
It is for this reason, which goes to the core change or development in corporate governance best practice.
of the business, that the Company strives to ensure that corporate The Companys social, environmental and ethical disclosures are social responsibility underpins its business operation at every level.
reviewed for accuracy through a combination of detailed verification by members of management responsible for the individual areas of Corporate governance corporate social responsibility and high level review by the members The Board is responsible for the Companys internal control and risk of the Board and Executive Committee.
The Corporate governance report on page 24 gives details of how this responsibility is discharged.
Further details of Mitchells & Butlers corporate social responsibility practices can be found in the Companys Corporate Social Our Executive Committee has adopted a Code of Ethics to Responsibility Review 2006 on www.
com csrreview promote honest and ethical conduct throughout our business.
The code includes: Alcohol and social responsibility Mitchells & Butlers has had a comprehensive policy for the The ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest responsible sale of alcohol since 2000.
Our Alcohol and Social between personal and professional relationships: Responsibility Policy includes clear guidelines on the responsible A requirement that any hospitality from suppliers must be operation of our pubs, the sale and promotion of alcohol and our approved, with a presumption against its acceptance: under 18s policy.
The policy is supported by employee training and Requiring full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure development programmes.
The introduction of the policy led the in periodic reports required to be filed by Mitchells & Butlers plc: and industry.
We relaunched the Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy Promoting compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that in May 2006 to include tighter guidelines on pricing and promotions.
apply to the Company and its officers.
This year more than 3,000 members of our retail staff passed the Our Business Conduct guidelines describe the standards of National Certificate in Personal Licence Holders, accredited by the behaviour expected from those working for the Company.
Our British Institute of Innkeeping, and a requirement for the granting corporate reputation depends on all staff acting in good conscience of a personal licence.
This qualification underpins their commitment and behaving with integrity in our dealings with employees, to responsible retailing.
shareholders, customers, suppliers and all other stakeholders.
Challenge 21 policy Mitchells & Butlers offers an independently administered confidential The Challenge 21 policy is an initiative launched by Mitchells & Butlers hotline, also known as a whistle-blowing hotline, for any employee to support our staff in identifying underage customers.
It is not an wishing to report any concern that they may have that they feel over 21s only entrance policy, but rather a requirement to ask for unable to raise with their line manager.
All whistle-blowing allegations ID, if a customer appears to be under 21, so as to prove that he or are reported to and considered by the Audit Committee.
she is at least 18 years of age.
This policy is now applied throughout the estate.
The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical matters concerning the Company through the Chief Executives Challenge 21 refresher training for all managers and staff is taking regular reports to the Board, presentations to the Board at its strategy place in the autumn of 2006, in order to reduce the incidence of meetings and through adoption of its Code of Ethics.
Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Directors are made aware of and receive training in respect of such matters.
Formal reporting During the last year we have moved to accept as proof of age ID to the Board of social, environmental and ethical matters takes place cards within the PASS scheme.
The scheme accredits bona fide every six months.
card issuers, with part of the accreditation being the prevention of forgery.
Our employees are trained to recognise the PASS logo, Identification and assessment of risks to the Companys short and and to accept only such cards, or a passport or photo driving licence long-term value arising from social, ethical and environmental matters as proof of age.
are achieved through the Companys Major Risk and Assurance Review, regularly updated and presented to the Board annually.
Conflict management The Board considers as an intrinsic part of this review whether the Mitchells & Butlers recognises that failure to identify and resolve steps taken to address these risks are appropriate.
These are detailed potential sources of conflict in our pubs or on the door can have further below.
Opportunities to enhance the Companys value are serious consequences.
As a result, conflict management training considered as part of that review and at strategy discussions.
has become a core ingredient of retail management training, helping to reduce the risk of serious incidents and better protect both A Mitchells & Butlers Risk Management and Disclosure Forum exists employees and guests.
to monitor the Companys activities and to ensure that a consistent and proactive approach to managing risk occurs throughout the Conflict management training also helps our staff to manage issues Company, including those of a social, ethical or environmental associated with drugs abuse.
Where there is any evidence of such 18 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | in our businesses, we move rapidly to assess the situation and take seen a marginal increase in sales overall, but with less pressure appropriate, tough measures to resolve the matter immediately.
at closing time and few instances of disorder.
Responsible promotions policy Partnerships with police and local communities Mitchells & Butlers is a member of the British Beer & Pub We encourage our licensed house managers to become active Association and played a central role in the formation of that members of the local Pubwatch Scheme.
Examples of partnerships organisations code governing promotional activity, which in turn with local communities include: influenced the creation of the Social Responsibility Standards document signed by all of the relevant trade associations and Support for Business Improvement Districts.
We support launched in conjunction with the Home Office earlier this year.
a dozen such initiatives and are especially active in that for Broad Street, Birmingham.
The Company operates a responsible pricing and promotions policy, Participation in local city council and police initiatives such the guiding principles of which are: as Best Bar None Awards.
For example: To offer guests real service and value at fair, competitive prices: Hulls Best Bar None awards scheme, introduced by Humberside To seek to encourage guests to return to Mitchells & Butlers pubs, police and Hull City Councils Citysafe initiative, offers accreditation rather than to encourage increased consumption by guests during for well run pubs with staff well trained in regard to security, drug a single visit: awareness, responsible drinking and the control of anti-social To ensure that guests are offered choice and value without behaviour.
Mitchells & Butlers pub, The Mainbrace, won the inducements to drink to excess.
We will not, for example, offer overall award in the Best Pub category, out of around 30 entrants.
any 2 for the price of 1 drinks promotions: and To encourage and support designated driver and other antiA Scream pub, The Phoenix, won Best Club in the Coventry drink drive initiatives.
Run by Coventry City Council, West Midlands Police and partners, the scheme recognises the high Alcohol awareness standard of safety management at city centre venues.
Specially Our brand-specific training highlights Alcohol By Volume information trained police and City Council officers examined each venue, as part of all new product introductions.
All managers and retail checking on issues such as underage drinking, noise nuisance, employees complete this training as part of the induction process fire safety training for staff and the use of CCTV.
and refresher training sessions are held every six months.
Smoking Mitchells & Butlers is an associate member of the Drinkaware Trust, In 2004 we started a programme of reducing the floor space in which an independent charitable trust aimed at changing the UKs drinking smoking was allowed in all of our pubs.
By the end of 2005 we had culture and tackling alcohol-related harms.
Information on units of eliminated smoking at the bar across the estate, thereby reducing the alcohol is provided on the drinks menus in a number of our brands exposure of staff to environmental tobacco smoke.
and formats and further information about the Drinkaware Trust website is made available on other marketing material.
In October 2005 the Government presented the Health Bill, containing proposals for reducing smoking in the workplace.
Increasing range of alternatives to alcohol The Bill introduced the notion of banning smoking in pubs serving Over the last 12 months we have continued to increase our range food, but allowing smoking in other pubs and all membership clubs.
of non-alcoholic drinks and to provide tap water to guests at no cost.
The Company viewed the proposal as illogical and inequitable, and participated actively in a campaign to bring about a total ban in all Licensing Act pubs and clubs.
The campaign was successful and as a result, The Licensing Act 2003 came into effect on 24 November 2005. a full ban will come into effect in Wales in April 2007, and later that From that date licensed premises have been able to make use of summer in England.
any variations to previous opening hours granted by the relevant local authority.
Meanwhile, ahead of the ban, we have moved to a no smoking policy in a growing number of pubs.
By September, around 185 of our pub Mitchells & Butlers applied for an average of just over one restaurants were smoke-free in England and Wales.
additional hour per day per pub.
In making applications we sought to balance the opportunity to offer our guests more flexible opening A full ban on smoking in pubs came into effect in Scotland in March times with respect for local communities.
With careful planning and preparation, the Company managed of cases our applications were successful.
We applied for no the change successfully.
The experience gained is proving helpful 24 hour licences.
in our detailed planning for the new regime in England and Wales.
Predictions of a rise in alcohol-related disorder as a result of the Act We are confident that a smoke-free environment will be beneficial proved largely unfounded.
The on-trade has seen little or no increase to our staff and to our customers and will attract even more in consumption and in general guests have taken advantage of more potential customers.
flexible opening hours in a relaxed fashion.
Good food and healthy eating The Companys experience has been one of successful We aim to provide a broad choice of menu items in our establishments implementation, much of this due to extensive training.
We have so that guests seeking healthier options have plenty of choice.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 19 | About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review CSR | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary We have taken advice from the Food Standards Agency FSA Ensures that sufficient resources and information are made available to improve the nutritional content of our menus, with particular and suitable management systems are in place to address health emphasis on Harvester and childrens menus.
We committed and safety matters.
to specific salt reduction targets, and are pleased to have met them for two successive years.
New FSA targets regarding salt The Board is responsible for ensuring that sufficient resources are content in sausages and burgers targeted at children have available to implement the Health and Safety Policy.
with Company policy is monitored and audited centrally and a comprehensive annual health and safety report is produced for The salt and fat content of items on the menu at Hollywood Bowl the Board.
have been reduced, and Harvester has recently launched its own website, which includes nutritional data on all menu items and this We use a major, independent safety and assurance company to audit is also available in each restaurant on request.
and report on safety practices in all businesses.
These inspections, which take place at least twice a year, form an essential element Environment of our due diligence and include: We take our environmental responsibilities seriously, and have a policy of seeking continuous improvement, with particular focus Independently verified means of monitoring safety standards: on recycling and energy usage.
Consistent audit systems across all businesses: and An independent assessment of standards combined with technical We have established a programme for collecting and recycling glass support on improvement.
and cardboard in our businesses.
Following a successful trial, the initiative has been rolled out and by September 2006, there were In addition to the Companys internal safety experts, leading over 500 pubs participating in the glass recycling programme and consultants in the fields of food safety and fire safety are also over 250 recycling cardboard.
As a result of the audits, the management of health and safety, food safety and fire safety is constantly reviewed and We continue to make progress in energy saving.
A reduction improvements made where necessary.
of 2% has been achieved, despite a 3% increase in demand driven by volume growth.
Fire safety policy has been reviewed during 2006 to ensure compliance with the Regulatory Reform Fire Safety Order that came into effect Trials of various energy saving measures are to be carried out at two on 1 October 2006. new-build Toby Carveries in 2007.
The average audit scores for health and safety, food safety, and fire Our efforts in this area were recognised in December 2005 when safety all improved in the year to September 2006. we were awarded the Energy Efficiency Accreditation by the Energy Institute and the Carbon Trust.
Employees Please refer to section on operational excellence in the OFR on The Company carries out an assessment of the environmental page 10. policies and practices of its major food suppliers.
Growers and farmers who supply Mitchells & Butlers are required to comply Gaming with the Euro-Retailer Produce Working Groups standard of Mitchells & Butlers was involved in the creation of the first industry good agricultural practice, known as the EurepGAP Standard.
Code of Practice that aimed to prevent under 18s from playing pub gaming machines.
The Company has contributed for many years Mitchells & Butlers also abides by the Code of Ethics issued to charities such as GamCare that work in the area of treatment for by The Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply.
In recent years the Companys contributions have principles on corporate procurement are to: been made via the Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
A Mitchells & Butlers senior manager is a Trustee.
Enable the Company to conduct its procurement activities in a safe, ethical and professional manner: Community Exclude suppliers that disregard health, safety and welfare: Each of our businesses has an important role to play in its local Ensure all personnel conform with national and EU laws: community, and we strive to ensure that our impact is positive.
Ensure representatives are fair and reasonable with suppliers: Every year, our pub managers and staff raise significant funds Exclude suppliers that exploit people unfairly: and for charitable causes and to celebrate their contribution, Utilise suppliers that preferentially conserve the environment.
we introduced the Heart of the Community Awards in 2004.
These recognise the efforts of our employees in helping to forge Health and safety good relations with the communities in which we participate.
The Company strives to provide a safe environment for all employees, The winning pubs receive 25,000 collectively to donate to good guests and other visitors to its premises and to comply with relevant causes of their choice.
In addition, the Company: We promote an Employee Community Award Scheme, enabling Aims to protect the health of employees with suitable, specific employees who support a charity through fundraising or voluntary work-based strategies: work to apply for a Company donation.
Last year a total of 40,000 Seeks to minimise the risk of injury from Company activity: and was donated to charities through this scheme.
20 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | The Company makes donations in kind, such as offering its facilities for use pro bono, or by giving free meals in Company premises.
Some of our leading brands also support a charity of their choice.
For example, Ember Inns and their guests have raised around 6,700 for breast cancer charities during 2006.
Alongside local initiatives, we also work with selected charities at a national level.
The Company is now into its second year of supporting Barnardos.
For the second year running the Company made a donation of 50,000.
Additionally, our employees helped to raise 22,000 to support three regional Barnardos projects.
Mitchells & Butlers is an active participant in Fair Cities Birmingham, a programme that aims to enhance the employment opportunities of people from disadvantaged communities.
Trainees who successfully complete a four week training course at the Birmingham College of Food are guaranteed an interview for work in one of our local pubs.
Ten people have already been placed in work.
As a company with headquarters in Birmingham, we have a history of supporting the cultural and economic life of the city.
We are proud to have supported the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra for 26 years.
The partnership was nominated in the Arts & Business Sustainability Awards 2005 in recognition of its longevity.
The sponsorship includes the CBSO on the Road programme, a series of community concerts for local charities, schools and community groups across the Midlands.
We are in our fifth year as corporate patron of the Birmingham Repertory Company, and have just announced a new programme of sponsorship of the Birmingham Royal Ballet.
In total, the Company made over 200,000 2005 143,170 in corporate donations in 2006.
Our role as neighbours Our pubs play an important role in the life of the local community and the Company is committed to ensuring that our businesses fulfil this role successfully, remaining on good terms with those living nearby.
We encourage our managers to be active members of the community, attending Residents Associations meetings where possible, and dealing directly with neighbours to resolve any issues The OFRs intent is to provide information to shareholders and quickly and amicably.
should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
This OFR and other sections of this Annual Report It is a Company policy that all of our door staff work for approved contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the door contractors and this year we ran a national conference, operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
coaching door staff in all aspects of their responsibilities, including By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future the minimising of disruption through noise or anti-social behaviour.
events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The OFR and other sections Tax of this Annual Report contain certain forward-looking statements In 2006, Mitchells & Butlers paid direct taxes of 150m and which are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information collected a further 250m on behalf of Her Majestys Revenue & available to them up to the date of their approval of the financial Customs.
The Company also paid 124m in excise duty within the statements and the Company undertakes no obligation to update purchase price of goods.
The forward-looking statements should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The OFR has been prepared for the Group as a whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are of significance to Mitchells & Butlers plc and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 21 |
