Corporate Responsibility MITIEs definition of corporate responsibility is to achieve commercial success in ways that honour ethical values and respect people, communities, and the natural environment.
This means behaving responsibly and having a positive impact on the environment as well as on everyone who has some association with MITIE, from employees and customers to suppliers and the wider community.
Our Chief Executive has overall accountability for our corporate responsibility and is spearheading the campaign to drive forward improvements throughout the business.
MITIE has divided its work on corporate responsibility into four principal areas to be focused on in the future: People: Environment: Community: and Charity.
People Recognition and Reward At MITIE, our employees are our most valuable MITIE believes that exceptional effort and resource.
Without them, our business simply would outstanding performance deserves recognition, not operate or have achieved the success it has reward and thanks, an idea reflected in the to date.
We are suitably dedicated to looking numerous high profile award initiatives throughout after, motivating, incentivising, and developing our the business.
people, as well as safeguarding their welfare.
Health and Safety Training and Development The need to maintain a safe and healthy MITIE has always endeavoured to ensure that all of workforce remains extremely important for MITIE: its employees have the opportunity to maximise we are constantly striving to improve our safety their potential, achieve their goals and progress performance and exceed the levels demanded their careers.
Our training and development by external standards.
This is taken extremely programme is therefore varied to suit different seriously from the Board down, commencing with fields and levels.
Indeed, our focus on our people the Chief Executive, who has overall responsibility has been recognised externally: one such for health and safety.
MITIE continues to place the example is the East London Business Alliances training of all employees at the forefront of Employer of the Year 2005 award.
improving standards throughout the organisation and we are constantly developing our own Communication specific health and safety training packages in We have continually worked hard to keep our response to our employees needs.
employees fully informed of developments within the business, using a number of tools including a new employee intranet, an improved in-house magazine and the launch of an in-house newspaper.
The first MITIE Employee Forum, held in November 2005 and chaired by the Chief Executive, also marked a significant stage in our employee engagement programme, underlining the Groups recognition of the importance of informing and consulting with employees.
32 MITIE Group PLC we nurture potential... at the MITIE Skills Centres.
The first Skills Centre was opened at St Lukes School in 2002 in Portsmouth.
This establishment un nderwent such an impressive transformation, with significantly improved pass rates, that we could not t ignore the results.
MITIEs Community Affairs Manager, Karen Govier, was selected to roll-out the n national campaign to provide students with the opportunity to learn vocational skills, and co-ordinat ted the opening of the first two new centres in Wigan and Bristol in Summer 2005.
The next one was la aunched in October in Sunderland, where we fitted-out our third construction centre, with areas for w wet trades, dry trades and a classroom.
Here, the students have the space and tools to learn a range of construction trades, as well as the theory behind them.
MITIE staff act as mentors to students wh ho show a real interest and who may later be employed as apprentices, which not only provides a sense of personal satisfaction, but starts to address the shortage of skilled labour in the industry.
The MITIE Skills Centre helped St Lukes to obtain the seventh most improved pass rates nationwide.
we encourage expression supporting employees in their pursuits.
When MITIE says that one of its corporate objectives is to develop our employees fully, we really mean it.
With that in mind, earlier this year, we sponsored several of our security staff, that are usually employed as gallery attendants at museums around London, to exhibit their own work.
Ten emplloyees from Tate Britain, Tate Modern, The Royal Academy of Arts, and the Hayward Gallery took part, exhibiting work at La Viande, a contemporary art space at the heart of the capital, which has previously hosted work by some of the UKs brightest emerging artistic talent.
We created this opportu unity because MITIE understands that developing someone is not just about giving them the right job a and the tools to further their career.
Its also about helping them to grow as an individual and purs sue their interests.
Perhaps thats one of the reasons our people are so dedicated to what they do because were committed to them.
MITIEs sponsorship of ten employees at the exhibition led to one individual selling a sculpture to a private collector.
Corporate Responsibility continued Environment Charity As part of MITIEs commitment to protecting the Fundraising activities for our Charity of the Year, environment, we aim to identify, monitor, evaluate Cancer Research UK, included national initiatives and manage the impact of our activities as a and regional challenges, as well as individual business in line with our Environmental Policy.
efforts, raising over 66,000 in the last year.
With MITIE Group PLC matching the sums raised, this Across the organisation, our dedication to reached an impressive 132,000.
Of particular note achieving the levels of environmental in 2005 06 was the Round Britain Driving performance demanded by the external Challenge where six employees drove nearly standards of ISO 14001 is proven, with over 80% of 3,000 miles around the country, stopping at the the Groups activities, in terms of employee Groups offices to collect money pledged by numbers, covered.
Our association with external their colleagues, not forgetting to off-set the corporate responsibility organisations, such as vehicles carbon emissions by planting trees.
Business in the Community BiTC and FTSE 4 Good Index Series, provides an independent assessment To become more involved with the communities in of our performance.
Initiatives, such as the which we operate, MITIE has decided to support planting of 2,000 trees in the Midlands to several regional charities for 2006 07.
Our employees counteract the impact of the carbon dioxide voted for Yorkhill Childrens Foundation in Scotland: emissions from that regions vehicle fleet, also Christies Cancer Hospital in Manchester, Cancer underline our commitment to the environment Research UK in the Midlands, CLIC Sargent for the and sustainability.
South West: Trinity Hospice, London, for the South East: and Naomi House Childrens Hospice in the MITIE is always looking to share best practice with Southern region.
stakeholders and the wider community.
This year, energy awareness initiatives helped clients adopt This year we have produced a separate an energy-efficient culture and beat government Corporate Responsibility Report to help us improve targets.
Our work with clients to shape and deliver communication with all of our stakeholders.
We sustainable practices is award winning too: understand that it is vital to let them know that we including four international Green Apple Awards manage our business in a way that reflects the this year, highly regarded accolades that focus on type of organisation we strive to be: the first environmental best practice.
choice provider of support services.
For more information on corporate responsibility at Community MITIE, visit www.
co. uk or request a hard copy Our everyday activities have always placed us at of the report by emailing cr@mitie.
the very heart of the communities in which we work.
Our people-first culture and can-do attitude means that we have achieved much and inspired many in the past few years with 2005 06 being one of our most active yet.
Perhaps the most substantial example of our commitment is our national initiative to build Construction Skills Centres at schools throughout the UK, enhancing students vocational skills, educational achievements and the long-term employment prospects of young people see case study.
MITIE initiated an apprentice scheme, offering unemployed young men and women from East London the chance of finding long-term work with MITIE.
Our client Morgan Stanley was so impressed that they awarded MITIE their Local Community Initiative Award 2005.
Other activities included clearing up community grounds: decorating Special Educational Needs classrooms: and helping to clear up a stretch of the Thames riverbank during London Sustainability Week to benefit local communities.
