MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Open pit at Los Pelambres in Chiles IV Region, producing copper and molybdenum concentrates.
Introduction The Group aims to discover world class deposits and to develop and operate low cost assets safely, responsibly and efficiently, in order to provide good returns to shareholders and to benefit stakeholders throughout the economic cycle.
Sustainable development considerations are an integral part of the Groups decision-making process and it adopts a long-term view in formulating strategy, company policy and everyday business procedures.
Mining companies can be instrumental in the development of economies and communities.
The Group recognises both its global and local responsibilities and seeks to contribute to the socio-economic development of communities and societies at its operations and projects principally through forming mutually beneficial local partnerships.
It encourages dialogue with interested parties to gain more understanding and seeks to improve its performance in order to create greater value as a business.
Sustainable development policies are implemented in a number of ways.
The Group places the adoption of safe work practices at the centre of operational activity.
It exercises stewardship of natural resources to manage social and environmental risk and to minimise pollution and environmental footprint: this includes an integrated approach to the conservation of biodiversity and land and water management.
It seeks to minimise stoppages in its mining and processing operations, minimise costs and maximise the benefit gained from a motivated workforce.
This report is divided into the following sections: Description of the Groups activities Occupational Health Communication Safety Governance and Ethics Environment Working with other Organisations Community Relations Systems and Risk Management Human Resources Awards and Recognitions Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 39 Description of the Groups Activities Mining The Groups three mines are controlled by experienced managers under the supervisory umbrella of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. AMSA based in Santiago.
AMSAs activities are outlined in the Chairmans Review on page 9.
By far the most important mine in the Group is Los Pelambres which is a world class porphyry copper mine owned 60% by the Group and 40% by two Japanese consortia.
Located in the high Andes near Salamanca in Chiles IV Region, its operations extend from its open pit high in the cordillera to its dedicated port near Los Vilos.
Los Pelambres produces copper and molybdenum concentrate with gold and silver credits in the copper concentrate.
Tailings are currently held by a dam in the Cuncumen Valley to the south of the concentrator plant and work is in progress to complete the new Mauro tailings dam by the end of 2007.
Copper concentrate is transported by pipeline 120 km to the coast, where it is dewatered, dried and stored prior to shipment by sea.
The molybdenum concentrate is packed in drums and shipped from the concentrator plant to roasters.
El Tesoro is now 100% owned by the Group following the acquisition of Equatorial Mining Limited during the year.
It is located in the Atacama mining district in northern Chiles II Region about 200 km north east of Antofagasta with good road and rail access to the ports of Antofagasta and Mejillones.
El Tesoro is an open pit operation and uses a heap-leach SX-EW process to produce LME Grade A copper cathodes.
Michilla, which is 74.2% owned by the Group, is located about 100 km north of Antofagasta and is the Groups oldest mine since 1983.
Michilla is a mixed copper oxide and sulphide orebody and mines its ore from a complex of open pit and underground operations.
Michilla is very similar to El Tesoro and also produces LME Grade A copper cathodes through the SX-EW process.
Michilla has access by road to the ports of Mejillones and Antofagasta.
As explained in the Chairmans Review on page 13, it has recently revised its mine plan which extends to 2009 and is currently reviewing several options in order to further extend its mine life and continuance of its facilities at the SX-EW plant.
Production details for the three mines are shown on pages 22 and 140.
Reserves and resources for each mine are shown on page 141.
The Group has a portfolio of exploration and development projects.
These include Esperanza and Antucoya-Buey Muerto in Chile, the Reko Diq joint-venture in Pakistan and the Groups other exploration programmes in Chile, Colombia and Ecuador.
The Group extends similar sustainability considerations to these activities as it does to its existing mines.
Transportation The Antofagasta Railway FCAB has become one of the largest combined rail and road transportation companies in Chile due mainly to the phenomenal growth of mining in the II Region.
It also has a 50% interest in and manages the Andino network in Bolivia.
The combined networks transported 4.5 million tons by rail and 1.5 million tons by road in 2006.
The FCAB is regulated by the Superintendency of Railways.
Details of tonnage transported are shown on page 140.
Water Aguas fide Antofagasta is based in Chiles II Region where it supplies water for domestic and industrial use as well as treating waste water for industrial customers.
It is regulated by the Chilean Water Authority and the Superintendency of Sanitary Services.
Water statistics are shown on page 140.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 39 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 40 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Communication The Group recognises the importance of timely and accurate information flows both internally and externally.
It achieves this through a variety of means, including websites, intranets, publications, consultation procedures and meetings.
The Group welcomes face to face communication and constructive criticism both internally and externally and it is committed to maximising transparency within the parameters of good business sense and commercial confidentiality.
External communication is achieved at Group and business unit level through the publication of financial, operational and social and environmental data.
The Board requires its Directors, senior management and other staff to conduct themselves with integrity and to comply with the ethical standards of the Group and their profession in preparing and publishing such information, for example financial reports.
At the business unit level, information about operational activities is also made available to local stakeholders through community consultation programmes, open meetings and memos.
Grievance procedures allow interested parties to lodge complaints and request information.
From 2006, the Groups three mining operations have also published financial information on a quarterly basis.
Internal communication within the Group is achieved through regular staff meetings including those with senior management.
The principal business units publish regular magazines and use intranets to communicate Group principles, ethics and facilitate the flow of communication throughout the Group.
Governance and Ethics The Group is committed to conducting business in an accountable and transparent way reflecting the interests of all stakeholders who may be affected by the Groups activities.
In so doing, it demands honesty, integrity and responsibility from those who carry out its affairs.
It seeks to ensure that the human rights, customs and values of its employees and those affected by its activities are respected, that information about Group activities is properly communicated and that environmental matters are properly considered.
In order to achieve this, it has corporate governance procedures, management structures and risk management procedures in place at both Group level and at the business units.
In addition to their own procedures and structures, the principal operations have developed business principles and procedures to ensure good governance and adherence to ethics.
The Group seeks to ensure similar standards are also maintained by its joint ventures.
The Groups risk management team has developed a central reporting system which enables operational matters and incidents to be communicated using the Groups intranet.
Further details of the Groups corporate governance and risk management practices are set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 62 to 69.
The Board has also adopted a Corporate Code of Ethics which is aimed at all employees and contractors of the Group, who are expected to understand and fully comply with its requirements.
The Code of Ethics seeks to warn of potential conflicts of interest and independence.
A Corporate Ethics Committee CECOR has been established with members drawn from senior management reporting to the Audit Committee.
Its tasks are to develop and update the Corporate Code of Ethics: to establish and develop the necessary procedures to monitor and ensure compliance with this corporate code: and to establish systems to communicate matters of an ethical nature throughout the Group.
A whistleblowing policy is in place which seeks to encourage and facilitate the communication of non-compliance, anonymously if necessary through the Groups intranet.
Each principal operating subsidiary has a Company Ethics Committee CECOM comprised of the general manager and two senior managers who represent CECOR and communicate the corporate ethics code throughout their respective operations.
Their tasks are to suggest modifications to the Code, to investigate non-compliance and to establish and develop necessary procedures for promoting and communicating the Corporate Ethics Code throughout their respective companies.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 40 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 41 Working with other Organisations Mining companies can make a positive contribution to the development of economies and communities, and the Group believes that this can be better achieved through communication and consultation with governments, non-governmental organisations, labour and financial institutions.
It also believes that its decision-making process benefits from consultation with relevant stakeholders.
Accordingly, it seeks to work closely with host countries and communities and communicates its views to governmental agencies directly or through industry associations and representative bodies at both a national and international level.
At the level of each business unit, it seeks also to work in partnership with stakeholders, including local associations and representative bodies to find beneficial solutions on any issues.
Organisations of which Group companies are members Organisation Description Group Membership Sociedad Nacional fide An industry body that is an association Los Pelambres and Michilla Minera fide Chile SONAMI grouping private entrepreneurs of small, medium and large size mining companies and represents, leads and looks after the interests of the private mining sector, in relations with public and private institutions, authorities, and the local and international communities.
Consejo Minero fide Chile An association of 17 large size Chilean mining Los Pelambres Consejo Minero companies founded in 1998 for the purpose of protecting, promoting and supporting the Chilean mining sector.
International Copper An international organisation for promoting the AMSA through one of its subsidiaries Association ICA use of copper worldwide and co-ordinating and improving the effectiveness of international market development, research, and technology activities of the industry.
International Molybdenum An international organisation which aims to AMSA through one of its subsidiaries Association IMOA promote the use of molybdenum, gather technical literature and scientific data on environmental issues, prepare industry guidelines and collect historical statistics on global demand and supply.
Antofagasta Association An organisation which aims to foster the Aguas fide Antofagasta of Industrialists concept of sustainable development and FCAB promote policies and ideas to the community and other businesses.
SONAMI, the Consejo Minero and ICA are themselves members of several regional and international organisations, including the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, an entity that brings together major mining and metal companies and associations worldwide.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 41 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 42 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Systems and Risk Management Systems Company general managers, who report to Antofagasta Minerals, are responsible for the health and safety systems in their organisations.
Health and safety is also monitored by the risk management team whose work is described on page 44 which reports to the Audit Committee.
During 2006 the Group has made significant advances in obtaining certification in international standards for management systems and has set targets for 2007 and beyond.
The progress and targets are summarised in the table on this page and page 43.
Where international standards are not applied companies use management systems under relevant national standards or have developed in-house solutions.
Status of certification of ISO 14.001 environmental management in Group operations Company Area Business Unit Status Los Pelambres Punta Chungo port, health area, supply and Certified 1996 Version: between October 2004 and July 2005. contracts, molybdenum plant, Cordillera area includes mine, plant, services planning and development, human resources and quality and safety.
To be evaluated as a project in the future.
An evaluation was undertaken in 2006 to Operative areas of the company treatment evaluate the feasibility of certifying these plants, distribution of potable water and sewer areas, with next steps to be taken in 2007. system.
Status of certification OHSAS 18.001 safety and occupational health management in Group operations Company Area Business Unit Status Los Pelambres Whole company.
Being implemented and expected to be certified during 2007.
Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. Operative areas of the company treatment An evaluation of the feasibility of plants, distribution of potable water and sewer certification was taken in 2006 and next system.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 42 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 43 Status of certification ISO 9.001 quality management in Group operations Company Area Business Unit Status Los Pelambres Punta Chungo port, health area, supply and Certified: between March 2005 and contracts, molybdenum plant, Cordillera area June 2006. includes mine, plant, services planning and development, human resources and quality and safety.
In process of implementation and expected to be certified during 2007.
To be implemented in 2007 with certification expected in 2008.
FCAB Management services transport of copper and Certified: 2003 with scope enlargement sulphuric acid with enlarged scope to include in January 2007. mineral concentrates and general loading services.
Integral Repair Shop Centre electrical control Certified: 2005 with scope enlargement of locomotives, repair and maintenance expected in 2007. services with scope enlargement to cover design and metrology.
Engineering and services electrical motors Certified: 2005, with additional areas repair and maintenance and components expected in 2007. recovery: with scope enlargement to production management, engineering projects and operator training.
Storage and transfer of sulphuric acid and Certified: October 2006. copper cathodes, transport of lime and cement.
Table for other international and national standards Company Standard Los Pelambres Punta Chungo: The International Ship and Port Security Code ISPS certification in June 2004.
Michilla At the Caleta Michilla Maritime Terminal: The International Ship and Port Security Code ISPS certification in July 2004.
FCAB Competitive Company Programme, in collaboration with a health care association to manage company risk.
Aguas fide Antofagasta Water Quality Laboratory: accredited by INN, the Chilean National Standardisation Institute in NCh-17025.
Accreditation for Laboratory Tests in microbiology and chemical physics a requirement of the Superintendency of Sanitary Services.
The companys microbiology and physic chemistry testing laboratory is in the process of obtaining the Chilean standard certification equivalent to ISO in control and quality of water.
El Tesoro System to identify, evaluate and prepare action plans related with worker behaviour, based on supervisor leadership and the practice of the self-care concept, developed in collaboration with the Mutual fide Seguridad, a national organisation which aims to promote health and safety at work.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 43 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 44 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Risk Management The Directors responsibilities for risk management, internal control, internal and external communications together with the role of the Audit Committee are described in the Corporate Governance report on pages 62 to 69.
The Groups risk management system has been developed in-house and is based on conceptual models and various existing risk management systems.
Its purpose is to monitor and increase the contribution from each company through a central system designed to prevent potential incidents which could generate losses and to reduce the impact of unavoidable incidents.
As explained in the tables on pages 42 and 43, the several aspects of the detailed processes established by Group companies are certified under ISO 14.001 for environmental management, ISO 9.001 for quality management and OHSAS 18.001 for safety and occupational health management.
Risk management processes are embedded throughout all levels within the Group.
Employees and contractors who are in charge of an operation or project are responsible for managing any risk involved.
These processes enable them to identify risks including possible losses, incidents and areas of non-compliance and controls.
Risks are prioritised according to the likelihood and the impact in terms of losses while controls are assessed in three categories good, satisfactory, or unsatisfactory, depending on the degree to which they meet their objective.
The information in the system is periodically updated and validated in conjunction with the risk control manager at each operation and the risk team at the company level, which includes collating and publishing safety statistics and measuring these against clear performance targets for the Group and individual operations.
Some operations have had risk management systems audited as part of the process in obtaining ISO and OHSAS certifications.
The Group shares information relating to risk management with other mining companies in Chile.
During 2006 functional improvements were made to the risk system.
These included improvements to the incident reporting system and the development of an online system to manage and report safety indices.
During 2007 and 2008, further improvements are planned, which include the integration of risk maps, the incident report systems and quality management systems.
Awards and Recognitions During the year, many of the Groups operations received awards and commendations at both regional and national level for their contributions to health, safety and the environment.
These included: Los Pelambres Three new awards were received by Los Pelambres from the Chilean National Safety Council: the operations general management, port, concentrator plant, services and support areas were awarded the National Safety Council Award: the general management, port, services and support areas received the Safety Excellence Award for the second consecutive year: and the concentrator plant area was awarded the Safety Effort Award.
International Mining Industry Underwriters Limited IMIU ranked Los Pelambres as one of the five safest mining companies globally.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 44 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 45 For the third time in six years of operation, Los Pelambres received the Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Mineras Sernageomin prize for Mining Safety in the large-scale mining category.
This prize is the main Government recognition in the mining industry.
El Tesoro The Chilean National Safety Council awarded the prize for excellence to the mining function and support areas for their safety performance.
The Antofagasta Association of Industrialists awarded the Environmental Management Award to El Tesoro for its environmental performance in the area of water consumption.
The Antofagasta Association of Industrialists in conjunction with national and regional authorities in the region awarded Ignacio Cruz, General Manager of Los Pelambres, receiving the Sernageomin prize from the Minister the Benjamin Teplizki prize to El Tesoro, in acknowledgement of Mining, Karen Poniachick.
of mine safety and environmental management.
Michilla An award was given by CORESEMIN Consejo Regional fide Seguridad Minera for high standards of safety.
Aguas fide Antofagasta The Regional Secretary of the Ministry of Health certified that public drinking water supplied by Aguas fide Antofagasta has an arsenic content of less than 0.01 mg per litre, within the guidelines set by the World Health Organisation.
Occupational Health The very nature of the Groups activities means that those involved may, during the course of their work, be affected by factors which could affect their health.
The Group is committed to providing a healthy workplace for its employees and contractors, eliminating occupational illness and managing health exposures in the workplace.
Chilean legislation covers most aspects of health through the Sanitary Code, the Basic Condition Regulations for Working Areas, and specific regulations for food handling, radiation exposure, work accidents and illnesses.
The Group seeks to meet or exceed these standards.
All the principal business units have occupational health policies, and each operation or project is responsible for setting its own objectives and targets and communicating them to employees contractors and, where applicable, the local community.
These measures are underpinned by strong leadership from senior management and operational heads.
Management systems certified under OHSAS 18.001 are in place in nearly all aspects of the Groups business units.
Health policies focus on minimising risk through preventive measures and raising awareness of health issues: medical surveillance and voluntary testing: monitoring and reporting procedures including occasional internal and external audits : and the use of technology to reduce demands on the workforce.
Specific measures include routine examinations for employees and local community members, advice on exercise and diet and educational programmes for community groups, and on-site clinics.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 45 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 46 Corporate Social Responsibility continued For example, Los Pelambres has approximately 2,500 employees and contractors working at altitudes of 3,500 metres down to sea level.
Consequently, the main effects are exposure to high altitude and the effects of isolation from family and social surroundings.
An integral health system has been in place since 2000 and Los Pelambres has internal polices, regulations, codes of good practice and specific procedures promoting healthy working conditions.
These are outlined in its Strategic Cornerstones, Quality and Risk Policy and Health Guidelines, which covers all aspects of the production activities in all working conditions.
Regular monitoring at Los Pelambres keeps track of health tendencies and allows early warning of occupational illnesses enabling timely treatment or prevention.
Industrial hygiene monitoring of physical and chemical agents allows detection and control of conditions capable of causing occupational illnesses.
Other programmes cover mental health, cardiovascular risk factors, dental health, family health, food and catering, lodging, transportation and recreational activities.
Guidelines are provided through various methods both written and spoken.
Employees can access their own health information at any computer terminal using their personal password, and statistics are kept on every aspect of health.
During 2006 the company has continued developing its Quality of Life at Work programme aimed at improving general health.
Los Pelambres has one of the most efficient systems in this regard in the mining industry as confirmed by internal benchmarking studies.
As a specific example, the occupational health and safety committee and labour unions agreed to change shift times of 12:00 hrs 24:00 hrs and 00:00 hrs 12:00 hrs to a new schedule of 09:00 hrs 21:00 hrs and 21:00 hrs to 09:00 hrs.
The new shifts times began on 1 December 2005 and after a nine month period of evaluation of personnel in 2006, significant improvements were observed in several areas.
These included improvements in melatonin hormone levels associated with quality of sleep and exposure to sunlight : improvements in hours of effective sleep: reductions in accident and incident rates and increases in productivity levels.
At El Tesoro, the existing health plan was extended to include programmes on healthy eating and physical fitness.
Voluntary participation by employees in the health plan increased from 65% in 2005 to 72% in 2006.
FCAB runs an occupational health programme with Mutual fide Seguridad, and aims for certification of OHSAS 18.001 in 2007.
The company uses ergonomic diagnostics to design locomotive cabs to FCAB health and safety standards.
The workforce undergoes occupational health examinations and safety audits are carried out internally and externally.
At Aguas fide Antofagasta, health monitoring and management is mainly focused on operating activities, including the capturing and piping of water, filtration plants, distribution systems and sewage collection and treatment systems.
During 2006 the occupational health programme focused on two new areas.
Firstly, there was a preventive health plan through vaccination against influenza, hepatitis and typhoid.
Secondly, a programme was established for employees, contractors and their families to inform about and prevent solar radiation.
Safety Safety is a major priority given the inherent risks in the different operations and development projects and the Group is committed to providing a safe workplace for its employees and contractors.
The Group has been building a safety culture base on the following concepts: ensuring that senior management and operational heads provide leadership and are committed to safety.
Health and safety matters are considered monthly at the divisional board meetings: use of management systems, with the majority of the Groups operations certified under OHSAS 18.001.
Standards at each Group operation are expected to exceed national minimum standards, and safety programmes have been approved by the Regional Agency for Mining Safety, a public body which establishes minimum industry standards: Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 46 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 47 regular training is provided to all employees and contractors to increase their awareness and improve their behaviour and attitudes toward safe working practices.
Contractors and sub-contractors are required to follow specified health and safety standards under terms of their contract: health and safety issues are monitored across the Group by the corporate risk team through its risk management procedures, with risk assessments carried out regularly.
Incidents are recorded and followed up: and safety committees which meet frequently are in place at each operation to review incidents, consult with employees, identify improvements in safety systems and procedures and implement training to prevent recurrence of incidents.
At each operation, a safety department is responsible for overseeing quality and risk management systems.
The Board is committed to a target of zero fatalities.
Regrettably in 2006 there were four fatalities, compared with one fatality in 2005.
One fatality occurred at Michilla and three fatalities occurred at the FCAB.
Two of these fatalities were at Train Ltda.
the road division of the FCAB, as a result of a road traffic accident.
2 Number of accidents with and without lost time during the year per million of hours worked.
3 Number of lost days during the year per million of hours worked.
A fatality is calculated as 6,000 lost days.
4 Source Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera.
As set out on pages 44 and 45, various Group companies achieved awards during 2006 for achievements in safety.
At Los Pelambres, a successful safety record has been achieved through detailed application of policies at the level of each production unit, and regular updating of these policies to reflect changing situations.
Los Pelambres safety department has carried out more than 40 workshops with attendance of more than 500 employees.
In 2007, Los Pelambres will develop an organisation of workers, supervisors and managers into a self-care community.
Los Pelambres encourages the ongoing participation of employees and grants awards to those employees who perform exceptionally in the area of safety.
Tesoro has increased training and monitoring of health and awareness campaigns and has published a magazine focused on accident prevention both in the workplace and at home.
Michilla has concentrated on the identification of risks, risk evaluation probability and consequence, application of tolerance criteria, classification and generation and monitoring of controls and their effectiveness.
At present the FCAB has in place a strategic health and safety model and is currently implementing a system based on OHSAS 18.001 with the aim of certification in 2007.
The incident system is integrated throughout the Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 47 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 48 Corporate Social Responsibility continued company with the use of on-line communication.
In the area of rail safety, a derailment system analyses causes and suggests possible preventative action.
The quality control system adopted by the company is ISO 9000 2000 and covers procedures and education for train operating and railway safety.
The company has maintained its safety standards and has run self-care, personal safety and specific courses attended by members of the workforce.
FCAB runs Supervisor Specific Action Plans PAES, safety inspection programmes and regularly holds executive committee meetings to examine safety.
During 2006, the number of derailments reduced by 26% compared with 2005.
It also ran supervisor specific action plans PAES, safety inspection programmes, self-care and personal safety courses and programmes specific to derailments and train workers.
Environment The Group recognises that extractive industries have the potential to adversely affect the environment both in terms of impact on natural global ecosystems including climate change and ozone depletion and stewardship of natural resources.
Where possible, the Group seeks to prevent, minimise or remedy the effect of its operations on the environment.
Accordingly, the Board is determined to promote good environmental performance through effective water management, energy consumption, improving air quality, waste minimisation and land stewardship.
It is committed to the efficient use of resources and recognises its responsibility for the use of its products.
Group environmental policy takes account of government legislation, local, national and international regulations, customers and suppliers.
The Groups business units have developed policies to assess and manage their specific environmental risks throughout all stages of an operation, including acquisition, exploration, development, operation and closure.
These policies take into account economic, technical, environmental and social factors and the Group seeks support from communities, governments, customers and suppliers for it actions.
The legal basis for environmental regulation in Chile is set out in Chilean Law 19.300 the Environmental Basis Law.
This provides that, before commencing certain projects or activities that are capable of causing environmental impact, the project owner must apply for permission under the Chilean Environmental Impact Evaluation System.
This is an exhaustive assessment process managed by the National Environmental Commission CONAMA.
Under this procedure, all government agencies with environmental jurisdiction evaluate whether to grant pertinent departmental rulings, licences and permits for a proposed project.
The Environmental Impact Evaluation System includes a public participation process intended to ensure that comments by the interested general public are considered in the evaluation of projects.
The public consultation period must be completed by the deadline set by law, which is sixty days from the last legal advertisement published with a summary of the environmental impact assessment submitted by the project owner.
Monitoring As set out in the table on page 42, environmental management systems covering nearly all processes in the Groups operations are certified or being certified under ISO 14.001 environmental management systems.
These include several aspects of environmental control, including environment management, air quality control, emissions, hazardous materials and contamination control, noise and vibration control, non-minerals and minerals waste management, land use and stewardship, water use and quality control.
Where ISO 14.001 standards have not yet been applied, management systems are based on at least national and regional standards.
To ensure water quality, Los Pelambres monitors 87 surface water points.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 48 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 49 At Los Pelambres, for example, monitoring reports are submitted periodically to CONAMA as well as other stakeholders.
Monitoring programmes assess the effect of operations and development activities on identified environmental factors, compliance with applicable environmental standards, verification of the effectiveness of preventative measures and measurement of unforeseen effects.
Since 2006, this information has been published on Los Pelambres website.
At Aguas fide Antofagasta, quality of drinking water is monitored by the regional health authorities, the Regional Ministry of Health and the Superintendency of Sanitary Services SISS.
Regular reports on water quality extracted at source and at final purification stage are submitted in order to comply with current regulations.
Energy consumption The Group aims to conserve energy at all stages of production throughout all its operations.
It does this through use of energy efficient machinery and practices, the development of new technology and by supporting energy conservation projects.
Energy usage is also monitored through internal and occasionally external audits.
At Los Pelambres, the control of power demand is managed by strict monitoring and control while the use of internally generated power was part of the original project design.
The company is able to use the potential energy sourced from the difference in elevation between the mine site and the concentrator plant a difference in height of some 1,600 metres.
The conveyor belt system between the two elevations generates energy amounting to 16% of the power used by Los Pelambres.
The system is eco-efficient and has saved the company more than US$5 million since 2000.
These efforts enabled Los Pelambres to be awarded with the National Prize for Power Efficiency in 2005.
At Aguas fide Antofagasta water sources are located in the Andes, while most consumption points are at lower altitude or coastal levels.
Accordingly, energy can be obtained through gravitation and this minimises the impact of energy usage on the environment.
Water Water availability, consumption and risk of contamination are the important issues in the Groups operations.
Business units aim to reduce water consumption and recycle and re-use water where possible, to preserve its availability for both its operations and other users in the long term.
At Los Pelambres water management systems allow the recirculation of up to 86% of all processed water.
Los Pelambres will participate in the administration of a recently built irrigation dam in the Choapa Basin.
This dam will allow for the accumulation of water during the winter when there is little demand by the agricultural sector, and release water for consumption in the following season.
The new Mauro tailings dam currently under construction will segregate natural flows for the tailings basin ensuring the quality and flow of water downstream.
This tailings facility will recirculate processed water to the concentrator plant, located more than 45 kilometres away.
Losses resulting from evaporation have been reduced by enclosing newly flooded areas of the tailings impoundment basin.
Los Pelambres uses less water than comparable mines and expects to take less than 30% of its requirements from the surrounding area.
Regular meetings are held with various authorities including the Chilean Water Authority, the Agricultural and Range Service, the Irrigation Canal Association and the Health Service which audit the operations on a continuing basis.
Only 14% of Los Pelambres water needs are supplied from fresh water.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 49 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 50 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Michilla has a system whereby it pumps seawater to its mine, where it is treated in a desalination plant and used in the SX-EW cathode production process.
Waste water is cleaned and used to irrigate vegetation within the site.
Similarly, the Esperanza project is considering the use of sea water for its concentrator plant as part of its feasibility study.
El Tesoro gets water from the deep wells in an aquifer located 70 km from the mine site and usage is constantly monitored by the local authorities.
The water from this aquifer is shared with other mining companies and farmers with whom the company has regular meetings.
Each process in the operation has a measuring system for controlling water usage.
During 2005 a reagent was incorporated to improve the quality of water used and to reduce air pollution.
Fresh water is used to replace the water lost by evaporation in the storage pools and water absorbed in the leaching process.
Recycled industrial water is used to water the gardens and green spaces around the offices and accommodation areas at the mine.
As explained on page 45, the Antofagasta Association of Industrialists gave the Environmental Management Award to Minera El Tesoro for their environmental work reflected by their specific water consumption rate measured in litres per tonnes of ore treated.
Aguas fide Antofagasta extracts part of its water from river sources in the Andes, and supplements this with a desalination facility at the city of Antofagasta.
Over 80% of its water volumes supply domestic customers and small businesses in the population centres in Chiles II Region.
The water purification process aims to achieve high rates of availability at the various stages.
Water discarded from various stages of the purification process is recovered and reintroduced by means of decanting tanks, thickeners, centrifuging and pumping water back into the plants reception tank.
In 2007, Aguas fide Antofagasta together with other stakeholders will form the Rio Loa Vigilance Committee which will manage efficient use and management of water sourced from this river.
Waste The Groups activities generate mineral and non-mineral waste.
Mineral waste includes mined rock with no economic value, tailings from the concentrator plant and leached residue from the heap leach operations.
These materials are disposed of in designated waste dumps or tailings dams for which environmental approval has been obtained.
Non-mineral waste includes materials that support mining and processing such as tyres and oils.
These materials are managed where possible through re-use, recycling and storage.
At Los Pelambres, environmental guidelines use a preventive approach and seek to minimise disturbance of surroundings, pollution, the use of resources, and the generation of waste.
There is an industrial waste management programme, including categorisation of hazardous waste in accordance with current standards and directives.
For example, industrial wastes are recycled where possible or sorted and sold as scrap.
Organic wastes from the dining halls are processed at a composting facility for use in the forestation of tailings deposits.
Regular contact is maintained with local authorities, the Health Service and the National Environmental Commission CONAMA and audits of waste management are conducted on an on-going basis.
For example, during 2006 Los Pelambres submitted a waste management plan to local authorities, focusing on lubricating oils an ingredient in the preparation of explosives, the sorting and segregation of waste, spill prevention and the cleaning of heavy equipment.
El Tesoro generates bulk mining waste extracted from the open pit and treated heap-leached piles.
Each process has targets to reduce waste generation.
In 2005 a new legal requirement for dangerous residues required construction of new installations to house hazardous residues.
There is a project aimed at recycling domestic waste and wood.
All waste disposal is monitored by the local authorities.
Michilla is similar to El Tesoro and also has a waste management system.
This has been adapted for the new legal regulations which have come into force principally in the area of dangerous waste.
All solid non-dangerous waste is recycled and sent to the chemical industry: dangerous liquid waste is recycled and sent to the cement industry for use in ovens: non-dangerous liquid waste such as sewage is treated and subsequently used as irrigation water in agricultural areas.
Dangerous solid waste is removed and recycled.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 50 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 51 At Aguas fide Antofagasta, waste disposal considerations arise from both the purification process to provide potable water and the eventual treatment and disposal of sewage from customers.
The water purification process generates waste which could have an impact on the environment.
This waste material contains arsenic which exists naturally in all water sources and is removed in order to supply potable water to the public.
This waste material is disposed of in a secure landfill site which complies with all regulatory requirements for this type of installation.
In 2006 Aguas fide Antofagasta engaged in a biotechnology project with Antofagasta University investigating possible reductions in the volume of sludge produced in the purification process.
Sewage is subjected to a preliminary treatment, wherein the removal of solids, heavy material, faecal material, sand fine solids and oils and fats takes place so that it may be discharged safely into the sea via submarine pipes beyond a coastal protection area established by current regulations.
The solid waste generated from these processes is treated with lime prior to final disposal and pumped to authorised dumps in accordance with the requirements established by the relevant health authority.
Land Stewardship and Biodiversity In all its operations and projects, the Group aims to maintain existing ecosystems, biodiversity and habitat.
It aims to be a good neighbour and wherever possible ensure continuing community access to land.
The Group appreciates the importance of minimising disturbance to land and the rehabilitation of disturbed land.
All mining operations have formal closure plans which seek to rehabilitate and restore land so it can have future use.
In dealing with biodiversity issues, the Group seeks to take into account the interests and concerns of different groups including traditional landowners, local communities and non-governmental organisations.
Los Pelambres has more than 25,000 hectares of protected areas.
At Los Vilos, these include the Laguna Conchal Wetlands, a nature sanctuary, the Monte Aranda property and Quebrada fide Llau Llau.
At Salamanca, these include Quebrada fide Talca, Alto Manque, Alto Piuquenes, Cerro Amerillo and Laguna El Pelado.
Within these areas there are protected species of trees and other wild life.
The trees include Quillay Quillaja saponaria, Espino Acacia caven, Huingan Schinus polygamus, Chacay Discaria sp.
Wild life includes the guanaco Lama guanicoe and several species of birds such as Cuervo del Pantano Plegadis chi, and Cisne coscoroba Coscoroba coscoroba.
Los Pelambres is also conserving one nature sanctuary in the Laguna Conchal is protected by Los Pelambres and has been declared a Ramsar Convention site.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 51 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 52 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Laguna Conchali Wetlands at Los Vilos a Ramsar Convention site and it has requested the status of sanctuary be granted to the Monte Aranda property and Quebrada fide Llau Llau at Los Vilos, together with an area of the cordillera to the south of Salamanca Laguna El Pelado.
Forestry management plans protect the species referred to above while populations of guanacos have been tracked by satellite imagery and radio tracing to ascertain numbers, habits and customs, and birds are being monitored at the Laguna Conchal Wetlands.
Since 1997, Los Pelambres has allowed livestock herders from the Choapa Valley the use of land in the high Southern cordillera.
This activity was conceived within the framework of the Los Pelambres good neighbour policy, to make available grazing land for livestock which is often in short supply during the Southern hemisphere summer.
The latest season, which began in December 2005 and ended in April 2006, benefited 13,000 animals and 40 herders in the area.
Los Pelambres has for a number of years developed under permit the Laguna Conchal Wetlands as a nature sanctuary.
This is an area in the vicinity of the Punta Chungo port with a complex ecosystem with many variations in biological diversity, forest structure, and endangered species.
This area had previously been exploited by the local population in an unsustainable way for several years.
As part of its development, Los Pelambres has undertaken basic research into the wetlands, consulted extensively with local people about their concerns, established a conservation zone with local stakeholders and built an education centre.
During 2006 Los Pelambres continued its Biodiversity Monitoring Plan.
Three guanaco monitoring campaigns were carried out featuring population census, and behavioural and reproduction studies.
In addition, tracking by satellite telemetry on a permanent basis and radio transmitters on an occasional basis were carried out to enable knowledge to be gained regarding movement patterns and home ranges of the population.
Other monitoring campaigns undertaken in 2006 included: study of the Manque and Piuquenes valleys from 2005 to study subsistence of the guanaco population: bird monitoring campaigns in Laguna Conchal and the Manque and Piuquenes valleys: flora and vegetation monitoring campaigns at Laguna El Pelao, Monte Aranda and Quebrada fide Llau-Llau: three ichthyic fauna and terrestrial fauna monitoring campaigns carried out in connection with the construction and eventual operation of the Mauro tailings dam: and two fish monitoring programmes.
During the year a proposal was submitted to the health authorities of the IV Region for the development of a pilot compost plant.
This initiative is within the framework of Los Pelambres quality and risk management policies.
In the desert areas surrounding the El Tesoro and Michilla mine sites there is virtually no vegetation or wild life.
Emissions The Group seeks to reduce air emissions and ensure good air quality in and around its operations and projects.
At Los Pelambres, several initiatives for dust control are used to counter dust emissions which come primarily from the sands dam of the tailings pond, roads and the crushed ore stockpiles.
Wind screens have been erected at the tailings dam, while stockpiles, the tailings dam and roads are regularly sprinkled with water.
Tests are under way for an additive to encapsulate dust particles while spraying and also on an automatic truck sprayer in the mine area.
Dust particles of less than 10 microns are being monitored.
Every effort is made to minimise dust emissions at the port and the concentrate stockpile and belt conveyor system are subjected to negative pressure conditions.
The loading of concentrates is done by extendible chutes and includes emission collection systems.
Close contacts are maintained with the authorities and audits are conducted on a continuing basis.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 52 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 53 Emissions of dust from mining operations and gas from the leaching process at El Tesoro are controlled by the Environmental Management System so as to reduce emissions into the atmosphere.
The control of dust has been improved by using reagents in water.
Continuous dust monitoring is carried out at the mine camp and neighbouring town of Sierra Gorda.
Aguas fide Antofagasta adopts measures to control and monitor the different emissions generated by its activities.
The sewage pre-treatment process is fide-odorised and monitored.
Particle emissions from construction processes such as the network replacement and building of tanks are controlled through use of water sprinklers, while noise levels are minimised through reducing vehicle speeds and net fencing around works.
External lighting has been recently replaced on all buildings to limit disturbance in accordance with current standards issued by the Superintendency of Electricity and Fuel.
Los Pelambres has educated 5,000 children in road safety.
Community Relations The Group recognises that its operations have a social and environmental impact on neighbouring communities and regions.
It aims to protect the areas around its operational sites and contribute to local economies.
Programmes have been set up with a view to establishing relationships within the community through mutual collaboration, transparency in Group activities including the communitys right to know and involvement in local issues.
A long term approach means that relationships are established prior to the commencement of projects with a view to development over the project life.
Enquiries and complaints from local communities and local authorities are recorded and considered.
The Group also aims to contribute in the areas of education, enterprise, job creation, arts, health, sport, recreational activity and general issues facing the local communities.
It assists in regional development and training, employment and small business opportunities.
The Group supports community based projects that can make a difference in a sustainable way without creating dependency.
It also seeks to employ local people and businesses to ensure a transfer of benefit and opportunity to local stakeholders.
Aguas fide Antofagastas Culture for Life in the Desert Programme mascot Vizcacha has met 128,000 students, teaching them to be proud to live in the driest desert in the world and to take care of their lives and cities.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 53 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 54 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Los Pelambres has developed a community relations management system to identify, analyse and resolve community related issues.
There are programmes for communicating with key stakeholders and assessing performance through opinion polls and procedures to deal with enquiries from the communities, media and local authorities.
During 2006, activities included the building, design and inauguration of the Andronico Luksic Abaroa Centre for Mining of Copper and Sustainable Development.
The centre is located near the Punta Chungo port and the Laguna Conchali Wetlands, and since its inauguration in October 2006 it has had nearly 3,000 visitors in the first two months.
It is the first permanent centre dealing with these issues in the South American continent.
A training programme was developed to enable 1,200 people from the Choapa valley to be trained on safety and the environment between 2002 and 2005, with 360 people trained on specific construction trades.
The operation has encouraged contractor companies to employ local labour.
The results have been successful and the majority of the labour force participating in the construction of the Mauro tailings dam project are from local areas including the Choapa Valley.
The Minera Los Pelambres Foundation was created as an independent entity to establish programmes to encourage sustainable development in the region over a long-term period.
The 2003-2006 Development Plan provided for a total investment of US$3 million.
The areas covered include water, local production, education, agricultural scholarships, Together We Can Grow More programmes, environmental education and certification of schools, road and highway safety, development of local suppliers and irrigation.
Other programmes support local fishing communities by granting awards, scholarships and also help in teaching methods for schools.
The Foundation is always looking to provide incentives and encourage local business.
Specific projects funded by the Foundation include: projects relating to irrigation in 2005 a rotational fund was set up for the use of farmers for irrigation.
To date 40 hectares of land have been irrigated and seminars and workshops in design and planning have been organised: projects in the agricultural sector in partnership with the Government, 240 farmers have been supported, enabling the planting of 251 hectares of fruit trees.
The aim is to support up to 750 hectares of land.
In addition, support has been provided to 70 families received support to help establish modern agricultural methods: projects in the fishing industry a work programme at Los Vilos has assisted 300 fishermen: projects to fund small businesses over two years, 25 projects tailored for small business were supported through financial support and managerial training.
A fund supporting small businesses has provided assistance to 282 projects: during 2006, the Foundation collaborated in the implementation of a free Wi-Fi system for the inhabitants of Salamanca to support education and local development.
This has made Salamanca one of the first towns in Latin America to have free wireless access: and also during 2006, the Foundation supported an exhibition of 100 years of Plastic Chilean Art in the Museum of Contemporary Art in Santiago, with participation by students from the Choapa valley.
Salamanca is the first Latin American city to have community-wide Wi-Fi due to the Minera Los Pelambres Foundation.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 54 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 55 At El Tesoro efforts during 2006 have been focused on education and training young people for employment.
A neighbours team was established with the community and two other mining companies in the region.
Michilla has a close relationship with Caleta fide Michilla, a community totally dependent on the local artisanal fishing industry.
The company provides drinking water, electricity and runs an emergency service for households.
It has provided internet access and computers for a local primary school of 24 children and study trips have been organised to Congress, museums, and the zoo in Santiago.
By virtue of Small business developments are funded a programme aimed at improving the area, rubbish is no by the Minera Los Pelambres Foundation.
longer dumped on local roads.
During 2005, seminars were given to local people to improve safety in the home.
The company has formed close relationships with the communities from Mejillones and Antofagasta and regularly participates in exhibitions and other events.
In 2004 the FCAB ran programmes for the local communities on basic computer skills and basic literacy for employees and their families.
The Cyber Train Project began in August 2005 involving a total of 1,055 people.
This project is organised and funded by the Andrnico Luksic Abaroa Foundation in conjunction with the FCAB.
The project contributes to the development and culture of vulnerable areas of the Antofagasta community, and is designed to improve opportunities for disadvantaged communities.
The Cyber Train has modified passenger coaches dating from the 1900s and equipped these with networked computer equipment and broadband to provide a virtual library and cultural centre.
Technical support and supervisory help is on hand and being mobile, the Cyber Los Pelambres work with the community has Train is able to reach the wider community.
It has three focused heavily on environmental education.
modules: electronic literacy basic training in surfing the internet, using email, chat rooms and word processors: reading development designed to motivate electronic and traditional reading and use of library facilities: and cultural development which encourages people to surf the net and visit virtual museums and works of art.
FCAB was the first company in the Antofagasta region to obtain the Digital Literacy Hallmark for this project granted by the Chilean National Training and Employment Service SENCE.
During 2006 the target to increase the contribution made by the Cyber Train was met with 5,967 people using the Cyber train that year.
In 2007 the Cyber Train Project will expand to reach a wider audience in neighbouring towns.
The FCAB has also equipped the Secondary School in Mejillones with computers and awarded grants for students to attend university.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 55 MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 56 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The FCAB sponsored and supported the development of cultural and artistic activities during 2006.
Cultural programmes include the sponsorship of a book fair, cinema festival, concerts and theatre plays.
Sporting activities were organised for the local community and children of the FCAB workers.
In 2007, the FCAB will open its heritage museum to the local community.
Aguas fide Antofagasta has an education programme Culture for Life in the Desert which is designed to educate the local community on health issues.
Open meetings with employees and their families, residents and local authorities have taken place and seminars directed at professionals have been organised in order to share information and in particular communicate information on arsenic levels which are within World Health Organisation standards.
Aguas fide Antofagasta aims to expand the information programme to the five cities which it serves.
Human Resources The Group aims to develop and maintain a motivated labour force committed to achieving a high standard of performance.
In all of the Group operations the human resource systems and procedures, which promote and encourage harmonious management of employment relations, are constantly under review.
The Group operates within the employment legislation existing in Chile.
The Group subscribes to an integrated system of policies, principles, regulations, procedures and work practices that ensures that the corporate strategy is communicated to all Group companies.
Human resource management for the Group takes into account the business life cycle, environmental factors, socio-economic and political factors as well as the expectations of the employees.
The human resource function seeks to apply best management practices for the varying situations each company faces taking into account medium and long-term factors.
The human resource function at the corporate centre, AMSA, encourages each company to develop policies, guidelines and management procedures suitable to the needs of the particular company but in line with the overall corporate vision outlined in AMSAs manual of general management policies for human resources.
Each year, reviews are carried out to identify external issues: legal, union activities, compensation issues and the socio-political environment.
This review, looking 36 months ahead, identifies challenges facing each company and an action plan formulated by senior management is updated monthly.
The Group uses a central intranet to communicate to the workforce.
In 2006, the Group employed an average of 3,139 employees.
An analysis by company is provided in Note 7 a to the financial statements.
The Group offers competitive remuneration packages in order to secure good quality employees as competition for labour is intense in Chile at this time.
All the Groups operations seek to encourage their employees to achieve a high level of performance.
Salary increases are linked to productivity at Los Pelambres.
A monthly survey is conducted within the Group to evaluate requirements in the mining industry in order to be aware of the state of the recruitment market.
The Groups policy seeks to recruit potential employees from universities, technical colleges and from educational bodies in communities local to its operations.
Group aggregate remuneration is set out in Note 7 b to the financial statements.
Career development and training Training programmes keep employees up to date in their knowledge, competence, skills and abilities.
Courses are run for employees, contractors and sub-contractors in risk prevention, environmental protection, quality and occupational health, technology, business culture and management philosophy.
Professional and vocational training in relevant areas is also encouraged.
Training programmes are developed with input from employees and third parties.
The Group encourages career development and offers employees new opportunities through Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 56 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAC RF62790 B 13 4 07 15:23 Page 57 internal recruitment processes and internal certification of abilities to encourage promotion to a higher level and better salary.
A leadership development scheme called DREAM is available for senior executives.
Sub-contractors The policy outlining working relationships with third parties and sub-contractors is contained in a Group policy manual.
Sub-contractors are subject to the same obligations as employees and have the same responsibilities.
Contractors personnel are encouraged to adopt the best practices recommended by the Groups human resources management.
Michilla runs a programme in conjunction with government agencies such as Corporacion fide Fomento fide la Produccion to develop and train local contractors.
It also assists in certification programmes such as ISOs.
Last year the operation conducted a training programme to promote policies and create synergies between contractors.
Trade unions There are ten labour unions representing employees within the Group, four at FCAB, one at Michilla, one at El Tesoro, two at Los Pelambres and two at Aguas fide Antofagasta.
All five operations have collective employment agreements which set out terms and conditions of employment and salary levels.
The Group uses a model for managing its relationship with trade unions which is regularly reviewed.
A monthly survey summarises all aspects which have arisen in the previous month.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 57
