30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review Business review cont.
Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is integral to the way we We have been a member of the FTSE4Good do business and is vital to the continued success Index since 2005. of our Company.
All Morgan Crucible businesses are regularly We report on: reviewed under the Groups Compliance Audit Programme and those sites and businesses ethics and ethical trading: certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 human resources: and other standards have regular external audits.
The Board has considered the potential environmental, health and safety: for further external verification of the Groups community: and corporate responsibility performance and in 2006 has limited this to external professional suppliers and customers.
advice on specific health and safety and Many of Morgan Crucibles products are environmental matters.
designed to improve the environmental Core values and health and safety performance of our customers operations and products.
We have Our approach to corporate responsibility is not sought to quantify this benefit, but we encapsulated in our Core Values Statement continue to see the development of new and which provides the framework for our policies, improved products as a key contribution to the programmes and procedures as we strive sustainability of our own business and that of for continuous improvement in our social, our customers.
Our Core Values Statement, available on Management our website, applies to all our businesses and The Board is accountable for corporate employees worldwide.
As Ethics and ethical trading Chief Executive Officer, Mark Robertshaw is the executive in charge of all corporate Policy responsibility matters.
He is supported by senior Our Ethics Policy, which is translated into local management including the Chief Financial languages for our sites worldwide, supplements Officer, the Director of Operational Risk and our Core Values Statement and provides the Director of Human Resources of the Carbon employees with practical guidance for their Division.
The Chief Executive of each Division everyday activities.
The policy cross-refers has operational responsibility for implementing to our other policies and covers: our policy.
environmental, health and safety: Reporting and verification equal opportunities and UN guidance on This report follows the guidelines issued by human rights: the Association of British Insurers ABI and business behaviour, including dealing with is supplemented by our social, ethical, conflicts of interest, bribery and corruption: environmental, health and safety policies and dealings with customers and suppliers, our 2006 EHS Report which will be published including anti-competitive behaviour: on the Companys website in April 2007. compliance with laws and regulations, As part of our work to promote and retain including export controls: our reputation for managing our business in integrity in financial reporting: and a responsible way and for contributing to the communication and compliance, societies in which we operate, a number of including employee reporting without fear initiatives are underway to improve corporate of retribution through our Compliance Helpline.
Examples are included below with further detail to be published in our 2006 EHS Report.
Business review: Corporate responsibility The Morgan Crucible Company plc 31 Management Policy Our Compliance Helpline enables employees We endorse the UN guidance on human rights who are aware of or suspect misconduct, illegal and minimum working age to ensure freedom activities, abuse of Company assets or violations of association, equal opportunity and diversity of our Ethics Policy to report these confidentially amongst employees, regardless of gender, race, without fear of retribution should they feel they religion, culture, creed, age or disability and cannot use a local channel.
During the year, the any other status protected by law.
We would availability of the Helpline was promoted to endeavour to provide training and continued employees globally, in particular through employment of employees who become coverage in the global employee magazine disabled whilst in our employment.
As is set out in our Core Values Statement and Our global anti-competitive behaviour in our Ethics Policy, every employee is entitled compliance programme is ongoing with to fair treatment, courtesy and respect.
appropriate employees across the Group We will not tolerate sexual, racial or any continuing to receive training.
This is followed other form of harassment.
up with annual independent audits, with the Management auditor attending the meetings of the Board and the Executive Committee at which the We have one set of human resources standards audit report is discussed.
that are implemented through our operating Divisions, with appropriate support from Group Human resources and regional resources.
This approach helps to Our continued success relies on the capabilities, ensure our people policies and practices are vision and commitment of our employees.
aligned with the needs of our business and Our employment policies and practices are our customers.
designed to attract, retain and engage Policy implementation, along with the employees and provide the working identification and benchmarking of best environment needed to deliver the high practice, are facilitated by the Group-wide expectations of our business and customers.
General Managers forum and regional Human We actively encourage all our employees to Resources councils in Europe, the Americas achieve their full potential and our leadership and Asia.
in technology is underpinned by our investment The Director of Human Resources of the Carbon in training and developing our people.
Division also has responsibility for Group Human Our Long-Term Incentive and Share Option Plans Resources issues and, as such, reports to and our employee communications all help to the Chief Executive Officer in this capacity.
inform, involve and motivate our people.
Risks relating to Human Resources are covered by the Groups risk management process.
Loyal service Mr William Bill Byrd receives a loyal service award from Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer.
Mr Byrd completed 60 years of service at our Augusta, USA plant and continues to work with us as an Export Transportation Specialist.
32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Corporate responsibility Reporting Employee engagement During the coming year we plan to update Communication channels our processes for gathering and benchmarking We communicate through a variety of channels, human resources data and key performance including regular global newsletters: the twice indicators so as to help identify areas of best yearly 360 magazine which contains divisional, practice and opportunities for improvement.
site and community news: and Morgan Update which keeps employees informed of Group Training and development developments including our annual and interim We continue to invest in our employees and results and the results of our annual employee to encourage them to participate in their survey.
These newsletters are available in eight development to achieve their full potential.
languages and are supplemented by team This is key to achieving our business goals and briefings and presentations.
we work to develop our people at all levels The European Employee Forum, established in and on a global basis.
1996, continues to be a powerful two-way forum We identify training and development needs for communication and in 2006 was expanded through our performance appraisal system that to include our businesses in the new member has been adopted by all Divisions.
This system states of the EU.
also furthers talent identification and succession As discussed above, our Compliance Helpline planning.
enables employees to seek guidance or raise Group-wide training courses include concerns on a confidential basis.
This Helpline international market development, project supplements local procedures.
Employee surveys Where appropriate we run regional training Following our first Group-wide employee programmes, for example in China.
These are survey in 2003, we identified a number of areas available for all Divisions and includes leadership for improvement.
These included improving skills and sales.
overall communications with employees, The regional programmes support divisional helping employees develop a better training that is aligned to the strategic needs understanding of Group strategy and direction of each business.
For example, over the and continuing to progress health, safety and past three years some 100 high potential environmental performance.
employees have participated in the Thermal The results of the subsequent surveys enabled Ceramics global management development us to track progress and to tune our employee programme.
This included exposure to the latest engagement activities.
The survey planned management thinking, teaching them to apply for 2006 was deferred until 2007 due to the this thinking across the diverse cultures in which demands of the bid approach in 2006. we do business.
In the Carbon Division there We plan to publish a summary of the results on has been an intensive focus on developing our website as well as providing feedback to middle management and commercial skills our Divisions, sites and employees.
We will also whilst Technical Ceramics has focused on the communicate results to shareholders in next development of technical and process skills.
Business review: Corporate responsibility The Morgan Crucible Company plc 33 Environmental, health and safety EHS management and organisation We are committed to minimising the impact of The management of EHS performance is aligned our operations, products and services on the with the operation of our day-to-day business.
environment and to enhancing the sustainability As noted above, the Chief Executive Officer of our business.
As many of our operations has overall accountability for corporate include high-temperature processes, minimising responsibility, including EHS policy and energy use and climate change related performance.
He is supported by Ben Bolton, emissions is a key focus.
We are also committed Director of Operational Risk who is a member of to ensuring that the working environment is the Risk Management Committee.
Operational safe and that all individuals take responsibility responsibility is delegated to the Chief Executive for achieving this.
Environmental, health and of each Division and to the manager of each safety EHS performance improvements operation.
Subsequent to the year end, the are a fundamental part of the way we Chief Financial Officer took over specific conduct business.
responsibility for EHS policy and performance.
This structure is supplemented by EHS This commitment is reinforced in our Core Values professionals within each business.
In practice, Statement which requires us to measure, all of Morgan Crucibles employees are appraise and report our EHS performance.
responsible for ensuring that our EHS policies are Further details of our EHS performance and implemented and for identifying additional programmes will be included in our 2006 EHS areas and opportunities for further development.
Report to be published on our website in April Environmental, health and safety risks are 2007.
The Report will also include case studies to covered by the Groups risk management help highlight our approach to enhancing the systems.
EHS performance and programmes are sustainability of our business.
reported and reviewed regularly on a site by site, EHS policy regional, Divisional and Group-wide basis.
The key features of the Groups EHS policy, Environmental management systems are in are to: place at 57 major sites, representing some 77% of production capacity.
This includes 23 sites comply with EHS legislation, regulations and which are certified to ISO 14001.
In 2007 and other applicable requirements: 2008 we plan to achieve further certifications minimise the environmental impact of historic, in the USA, Australia, Japan, China, France current and future operations: and South Africa, in addition to the rolling programme of re-certifications.
Systems are in conduct operations in such a manner as to place for managing health and safety across avoid unacceptable risk to human health all our major operations, with a number of sites and safety: certified or working to OHSAS 18001 where this supply products that will not present is appropriate.
Our Carbon Division facility in unacceptable risk to human health and Turkey achieved certification to OHSAS 18001 safety when used in compliance with during the year.
product safety communications and Our EHS management processes also include common safety practices: the EHS Compliance Audit Programme.
establish measurement tools for and This programme provides assurance and helps continuously monitor EHS performance: and ensure compliance with local regulations, and good management practice.
Twenty four sites set objectives for the continuous improvement were audited during the year, using external of EHS performance.
auditors in Europe and Asia and internal resources in North America.
These audits, and the associated corrective action plans, help ensure that site level environmental and health and safety assessments are undertaken on a consistent basis at the Groups facilities worldwide.
This programme is supplemented by the Groups EHS Good Management Practice manual which is issued to all sites.
34 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Corporate responsibility Health and safety performance Community We monitor accident statistics across the We engage with local communities in relation Group.
As a result of proactive preventative to matters of mutual interest and concern.
programmes and training, performance over At a local level, where we often have the past year has improved with a reduction long-established roots and are frequently a in lost working time and in major and minor major employer, this helps to foster incidents per 100,000 hours worked.
understanding and improves our credibility.
In addition, we engage with local and national 2006 2005 governments and agencies, both directly or % lost working time 0.07% 0.09% through professional bodies.
Such engagement Major incidents per 100,000 hours 0.41 0.62 is in part covered by our Ethics Policy which Minor incidents per 100,000 hours 0.19 0.26 prohibits donations to Major work related injuries resulting in four or more days lost time.
Minor work related injuries resulting in one, two or three days lost time.
Environmental performance In addition to the time given to community projects and for charitable purposes by our Many of our operations involve high employees around the world, in 2006 Morgan temperature processes.
Energy use and the Crucible also made charitable donations of emissions associated with climate change are 146,240 2005: 171,057. a key area of focus for the Group.
Over the past year, key environmental performance Group activities indicators show a reduction in CO2 emissions During 2006, we continued to support and fund due to energy use when indexed to revenue.
the joint Barnardos Outward Bound initiative This includes the effect of doubling our use of which provides opportunities for young people electricity from specific renewable sources to to develop life skills at centres in the UK.
We also supported a number of charitable 2006 2005 and community initiatives, including medical Tonnes CO per m revenue 604 648 2 research, the care of physically or mentally Tonnes waste per m revenue 89 96 handicapped people and the education % total waste recycled 31% 30% 3 m water used per m revenue 3,896 3,668 and development of young people.
CO equivalent from all energy sources, including country specific electricity 2005 2 Employee activities restated accordingly.
Our staff support a variety of local and national In 2006 our waste management programmes initiatives and projects, helping to raise funds resulted in a reduction in the amount of waste and giving their time.
Examples include: generated per unit of revenue, whilst increasing awareness of recycling opportunities saw an Asia increase in the proportion of our total waste that an employee at Carbon Korea who is recycled.
Due to increased and improved assists in a facility for disabled teenagers: measurement and reporting, apparent water employees at Thermal Ceramics in India use per unit of revenue increased during the who donate blood, give books to the local year.
This was also due to a leak at one of our library with one employee sponsoring the US sites, which has now been rectified.
education, food, shelter and clothing of an underprivileged child.
Targets Over the past year, we have worked to update our Key Performance Indicators KPI and data collection processes.
As will be further detailed in our 2006 EHS Report, to be published in April 2007, we have set new Group-level targets which build on the progress to date.
We will further upgrade our KPI processes and integrate these into our management information systems.
In addition to Group targets, our businesses set targets and undertake initiatives appropriate to their specific opportunities for improvement.
