Corporate Responsibility Statement NEXT continues to consolidate and integrate Corporate Responsibility CR commitments throughout the Group.
A third party has again been commissioned to provide independent assurance on the content of the 2006 CR report, which will be published on the Companys website later this year.
The Groups commitment to CR matters has also been recognised externally by its continuing membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
The Group has established a CR forum of 15 senior managers and directors representing key areas of the business, co-ordinated by a CR Manager, to develop and implement the Groups strategy.
The objective of the forum is to review key business drivers and associated risks in order to embed CR considerations within the Groups business operations.
The CR Manager holds regular updates with the executive director responsible for CR matters.
The Group has identified its supply chain as a key area of consideration and its supplier Code of Practice remains at the heart of the Groups operations.
The code specifies compliance standards for environmental protection, labour, wages and other issues relating to working conditions.
Home-working has been a particular area of focus in 2005 and will continue to be in 2006.
The Group is working in partnership with groups in the UK and overseas to establish how ethical standards can be applied, implemented and monitored with home-workers.
The improvement of the Groups waste stream management has continued to be a priority during 2005.
As a result, stores and warehouses recycled over 13,700 tonnes of cardboard 2005: 11,000 tonnes and over 1,200 tonnes of polythene 2005: 700 tonnes.
The Group will continue to strive for further improvements in this area in 2006.
The introduction of the Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive was anticipated for 2005, but UK legislation has been delayed until 2007.
The Group has successfully implemented changes in Eire following the implementation of the Directive there in August 2005.
The Group has also begun to work with The Carbon Trust to review opportunities for energy efficiency in its stores, warehouses and offices throughout the business.
People are a key asset to the business.
NEXT is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
The Group has established policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel and is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare and protection of the working environment.
It has adopted policies aimed at minimising risk in the Groups activities to ensure that they do not harm employees, customers or the general public, all of whose interests are regarded as critical to business success.
Following the Indian Ocean tsunami in December 2004, the Group established a charitable trust to co-ordinate the distribution of over 790,000 of funds raised and donated by the Group and its directors, employees, associated companies and suppliers.
The construction of a 200 home village with central social facilities is now well advanced, with the first batch of 46 completed houses due to be occupied in April 2006 and the remainder completed over the following few months.
All monies contributed in respect of the tsunami disaster were in addition to existing commitments and will not reduce the Groups established corporate charity and sponsorship programme.
