N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 20 Corporate social responsibility report: 20 Corporate social responsibility report Northern Foods plc N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 21 In 2005 06 Northern Foods completed a comprehensive review of its corporate social responsibility CSR commitments.
The company sought to build on its strong philanthropic heritage, but recognised that Promoting healthy activity lacked focus.
The organisations shift to an integrated One Northern business offered opportunities to re-scope activities and establish common CSR targets for the business: balanced lifestyles targets which are relevant to the social and environmental context in which we operate.
Our first marketplace commitment, called To this end a new CSR committee, made up of leaders from across the organisation was Healthy Balanced Lifestyles, reflects our established, including representation from the supply chain, marketing, legal and technical responsibilities to consumers and addresses teams.
This committee has established a clear governance framework for CSR with a set the Governments challenge, through its 2004 of guiding principles for Northern Foods: White Paper, Choosing Health.
This states that the food industry should play a role 1.
Alignment of the CSR agenda with the business strategy: as such we would expect it to have in helping to change UK dietary habits and a positive impact on our operational performance and have clear targets and measures.
should tackle issues such as obesity and the reduction of salt intake.
Proactive management of the CSR agenda will form a part of the companys approach to managing inherent risks in the business and enhancing the companys long term Our consumer research indicates that whilst reputation as a responsible and trusted company.
health concerns are growing, individuals are looking to balance their overall lifestyle 3.
Compliance with legislation and good governance standards.
On occasion, these concerns will result in a search for healthier options.
Building on these principles, Northern Foods has structured its CSR framework to reflect Equally, high pressure lifestyles and more its impact on the marketplace, the workplace and the environment in which it operates.
disposable income means that consumers We address our responsibilities to the community through these areas.
The companys will also look for convenience and indulgence.
CSR commitments incorporate long running initiatives such as food safety and health & safety controls as well as new programmes which focus our CSR budget more effectively.
Details We are best able to meet these challenges of the companys approach to corporate governance can be found on pages 29 to 32. by working with our brands and the major retailers to provide healthier choices in every This CSR policy was signed off by the board in 2005 and, as it moves into 2006 07, the company food category we produce: specifically by has a clear framework, a set of programmes and clear reporting measures around which it is reducing levels of salt, fat and sugar across focusing its efforts.
Accordingly, all CSR activity now falls under one of three strategic themes: product areas: by concentrating on consumer demands for healthy options in our new product development: and by helping to Promoting healthy balanced lifestyles educate and promote healthy balanced lifestyles with consumers.
Building a good place to work In developing its Healthy Balanced Lifestyles Delivering a trusted supply chain commitment, Northern Foods has prioritised activity where it can have the most immediate impact.
Supporting consumer desire for choice, Northern Foods is now able to offer healthier options for each of its customers in line with their own healthier eating sub-brands.
In the longer term we also need to continue to work, in conjunction with customers, to address consumer information requirements in areas such as labelling and advertising.
We will report on this at the end of 2006 07.
Progress to date and targets for 2006 07 are as follows: Northern Foods plc Corporate social responsibility report 21 N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:39 pm Page 22 Corporate social responsibility continued As demonstrated in Table 2 below, good In 2005 06 Northern Foods succeeded Target 1: To increase the provision of progress has also been made in other in reducing the quantity of fat used across healthier eating options in all of our Northern Foods categories where changes its product range by 4% based on mass main product categories over the next to products, either in terms of creating balance calculations of all fat procured as three years healthier alternatives, or in terms of changes a raw material across Northern Foods.
The to standard recipes, have been made.
company will continue to seek to set targets Healthier products can be defined as those for salt, fat and sugar reduction and will that offer multiple nutritional benefits over In 2006 07 we will continue to improve continue its liaison with the FSA and industry their standard products for example a the range of healthy eating options available bodies throughout 2006 07 to consider healthy eating cheese and tomato quiche across our category portfolio.
compared with a standard cheese and tomato quiche would contain less fat Good progress was made in reducing salt in Case study: Removing hydrogenated typically less than 3% per portion, less salt 2005 06, with the equivalent of 33 tonnes being vegetable oil typically contributing no more than one removed from our processes based on analysis The company has worked to use healthier third of the Food Standards Agencys FSA of salt entering our processes in pre-blended fats as an ingredient in its products.
proposed 2010 total salt intake targets and mixes from the end of 2004 05.
We continue Accordingly 2005 06 saw Northern Foods have an overall calorific benefit.
Consumers our work to support the FSAs target of reducing complete its planned removal of HVO are therefore able to choose their preferred consumer salt intake to 6g per day by 2010. as an ingredient from the complete range quiche between the two.
Additionally, in line of Foxs branded biscuits and from all own with consumer and customer demand, we Case study: Reducing salt in label biscuits and ready meals produced by maintain our approach of minimising the use meat products the company.
of artificial colours and preservatives.
In conjunction with our trade associations and with the support of our customers, we Target 2: To invest over 20% of our annual Northern Foods currently provides dedicated were key contributors to a Joint Sodium new product development expenditure in healthy alternatives in over 40% of the Action Plan for Meat Products.
By actioning developing healthier products every year categories in which it operates.
Table 1 below that plan, we have effected a 9% average for the next three years details those categories, shows example reduction in the sodium salt content in ranges within those categories, and shows our branded and own label products within Continuing its response to the increasing the typical nutritional characteristics within the defined industry category of Delicatessen demand for healthier eating choices, Northern these ranges.
Pies, Pork Pies and Sausage Rolls.
Foods has committed to investing over 20% of its new product development NPD resources into developing healthier product recipes in 2006 07.
As indicated in the table Table 1 Providing healthier alternatives: now available in 40% of categories below, good progress was made in this area Category Example Typical salt Fat content No in the last financial year, with Northern Foods 1 ranges per portion per portion HVO delivering the following healthier new less than 3g less than 3% products to the market.
Ready Meals Count on Us No.
of healthier products Eat Smart Division launched in 2005 06 Sandwiches Healthy Living Chilled 127 Biscuits Officially Bakery 29 Low Fat Frozen 21 Count on Us Cake & Desserts Count on Us Case study: Childrens ready meals Working with one of its key customers, Speciality Bread Be Good to Yourself Northern Foods developed a range of Healthy Living childrens ready meals compliant with Note 1 government guidelines on Nutritional Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil Requirements for Children and a salt figure based on FSA guidelines for children.
In addition, none of the products in the range Table 2 Providing healthier alternatives: good progress in other categories contain artificial colours or preservatives.
Category Example Typical salt Fat content No Target 3: To develop programmes to help ranges per portion per portion HVO educate people about healthier lifestyles less than 3g Puddings Be Good to Yourself As a leading food producer, Northern Foods Matthew Walker Less than recognises its responsibilities in helping to Christmas 7% educate consumers about how to achieve Puddings healthy balanced lifestyles.
Frozen Goodfellas Less than Pizza 10% Fish Donegal Less than Catch 10% Pastry Be Good to Yourself Less than 15% Meat & Meat-free Grassingtons Less than 14% 22 Corporate social responsibility report Northern Foods plc N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:40 pm Page 23 Case study: Phunky Foods Case study: RoSPA awards Target 1: To reduce the accident frequency Northern Foods is working with some of the In 2005 06 Northern Foods maintained its rate by 30% over three years UKs top nutritionists and Leeds University progress by achieving Royal Society for the to pilot a health and nutritional education Prevention of Accidents RoSPA awards, A major focus on health and safety H&S programme called Phunky Foods.
The which recognise efforts in occupational in 2005 06 has seen Northern Foods reduce programme, which has been introduced to H&S.
Overall eight sites across the business accident frequency rates by 21% during the 55 primary schools across the Yorkshire region, achieved Gold awards, including one Gold year.
We are pleased with progress but H&S recognises that unhealthy eating habits are medal for six sustained years of progress remains a continuing high priority for all staff.
formed early and works by helping to train improvement, while four sites achieved We are therefore seeking a further 15% target teaching assistants to deliver engaging classes Silver awards.
reduction for 2006 07. on healthier lifestyles to children as part of their regular curriculum work.
As sponsors of Case study: Multicultural guidance the pilot, Northern Foods will gain valuable on health and safety Northern Foods insights into childrens eating habits.
The Reflecting the impact of language barriers on Accident Frequency Rates programme also supports Northern Foods positive H&S performance, Northern Foods commitment to the local community in has collaborated with others in the UK food 12.3 which it is based.
industry to develop content for Working 11.2 Safely in a Multicultural Food and Drink Industry, a guide designed to help manage 8.8 the challenges of employing ethnically Building a good diverse teams.
place to work Target 2: To double access to learning centre resources across Northern Foods Our second CSR commitment is based on over the next three years the workplace and is focused on ensuring that Northern Foods is a Good Place to Work.
It Our aim is to increase access to opportunity reflects our responsibilities to our employees for people across the business.
Northern Foods and our need to attract, develop and motivate Actual Actual Actual has six fully operational on site learning high calibre people with key manufacturing 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 centres with a further three under development and technology skills.
The success of these centres is Reportable accidents per million hours worked proven, as shown at our site in Carlisle where Competing in the fast paced, low cost 186 learners have been on a range of courses environment that characterises todays such as Maths and English in the last 18 months.
food industry places great demands on the Additionally, 150 learners have carried out business.
Such demands appear all the more work based courses and some promotions to challenging given that a number of our line management have been achieved.
factories are located in areas of high social deprivation, where standards of education, literacy and numeracy can vary and reliance on temporary and migrant workers is often very high, particularly through periods of high seasonal demand.
In this context, we believe that a good place to work is a safe place to work, characterised by open, two way communication, by recognition of peoples efforts, and by offering everyone the opportunity to develop their skills.
By providing this access to knowledge, learning and development, by encouraging open communication, and by fostering safe working practices we will help our employees perform to the best of their abilities and drive a culture of continuous improvement at our sites.
Our progress for the year and our targets for 2006 07 are detailed.
We believe that they will provide a valuable focus point for people seeking to maximise their potential in the business.
Northern Foods plc Corporate social responsibility report 23 N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:40 pm Page 24 Corporate social responsibility continued Case study: Lifelong Learning Partnership Case study : Breakfast Team Talk A great example of how the overall In 2005 06 Northern Foods initiated a A new initiative, introduced in 2005 06, Good Place to Work agenda has been put partnership with the BFAWU, T&GWU, through which groups of shop floor staff into practice can be seen at our Pennine site USDAW, and other major trade union bodies meet with members of the operating board.
where ready meals are made.
Here improved to create a national learning steering group.
Attendees have the opportunity to have frank employee engagement is being proactively This will promote, support and monitor discussions about the issues they face and to used to drive safety, support our environmental lifelong learning activities for all employees discuss ideas for improvement in the business.
goals and foster a culture of respect.
across the Northern Foods business and will This process provides a rapid feedback lead to the development of a company wide mechanism that has an immediate impact Learning Agreement.
The partnership builds on on employees and their working environment.
Delivering a trusted successful work in developing learning centres Questions and answers are recorded and at sites across the business.
This success was posted on site notice boards for all employees supply chain marked during the year when the Park Cakes to read.
Northern Foods conducted 14 Oldham factory won an award in recognition Breakfast Team Talks during the year and, The third programme commitment in our CSR of its learning facilities.
based on very positive feedback from strategy, Trusted Supply Chain, addresses the employees, a further programme of visits impact of the company on the environment Case study: Managing talent is scheduled for 2006 07. in which it operates.
Northern Foods made good progress in implementing a cross business talent and Case study: Northern Foods Forum Northern Foods buys ingredients from all performance management process during The EU Directive on Information and over the world, converts raw ingredients into 2005 06, ensuring that peoples potential Consultation came into force during the year.
quality food at 36 sites, and distributes its was identified and developed effectively.
In line with its legal obligations under this products to retailers every day of the year.
This approach will continue to play a vital directive, Northern Foods established a new We are very aware of the need to manage role in Northern Foods ongoing business National Forum and three operating division our impact on the environment at each stage transformation and will be a focus for 2006 07.
It also introduced a new local Forum of this supply chain, both through our own at 85% of its sites during 2005 06.
It is the initiatives, and by working closely with Key enabler: To drive effective change, companys intention that all sites will have suppliers and retailers to drive greater Northern Foods will increase the number a Forum in place by the end of 2006 07. efficiency.
and effectiveness of communication channels across the business Case study: Northern Stars Effective energy management can have The year saw continued emphasis on The Northern Stars scheme was launched a positive impact both on operational communication, recognition and consultation, in 2005 06 as a direct way of recognising performance and on the environment.
both within individual sites and at a group the contributions and achievements of our For example, the high levels of cooking, wide level.
In 2005 06 a number of new employees.
Nominated by their colleagues chilling and freezing within Northern Foods channels, such as Breakfast Team Talk, were and line managers, recipients of Northern means that the company is a high energy introduced while existing channels, such as Stars awards are given Supercheques which user and has been significantly impacted by the company newsletter and intranet, were can be redeemed at most high street shops a year of rising energy prices.
By reducing improved and enhanced.
In 2005 06 over 200 the amount of energy used, the company people became Northern Stars with award will be able both to reduce its impact on winners announced through a number of the environment and to reduce its exposure communications channels.
24 Corporate social responsibility report Northern Foods plc N040009 Report 01-26 13 6 06 1:40 pm Page 25 In 2005 06 the company launched a War on Supply chain governance Target 3: To reduce absolute waste levels Waste, designed to drive efficiencies, reduce As part of its ongoing commitment to ensure produced by Northern Foods by 15% over energy use and eliminate or recycle waste the safety of the food it produces, Northern the next three years wherever possible.
To drive this programme Foods central laboratory services and site Northern Foods has introduced a single technical audit processes remain accredited Northern Foods aims to reduce absolute method of scoping, tracking and monitoring by the UK Accreditation Service to the highest levels of waste produced by 5% based on an energy use at its sites.
Over 600 energy and international standards.
estimated 60,000 tonnes of waste across the utility monitoring meters are being deployed business in 2005 06.
Specifically, the company and Energy Desktop, a specialist software Northern Foods also continued its has set targets for reducing the amount of solution, will capture and report on usage commitment to ethical procurement.
This waste going to landfill by 5% and for increasing data, complementing SAP data on raw includes its continued support of initiatives the amount of waste being recycled by 5%.
material usage and the creation of such as SEDEX, a secure web based system energy waste teams at 14 of our sites.
on which companies can maintain data on Case study: Recycling used cooking oils These actions will support the monitoring labour standards at their production sites.
Our Pennine Foods site identified that oils of carbon emissions, to help ensure that the The company has also maintained its ongoing used in frying some of its Chinese products company is on course to meet its targets commitment to its Farm Assurance Code of could be recycled after the cooking process.
under the Climate Change Levy Agreement.
This code, Working with an environmental organisation They have also allowed Northern Foods to which will be updated in 2006 07 to reflect we have developed a method of segregating set the targets below for 2006 07. the changing regulatory framework, specifies this cooking oil and selling it to a specialist the companys high standards for animal company for conversion into bio-fuels.
Target 1: To reduce overall energy use welfare and minimises our reliance on We are now adopting this approach across by 15% over three years agricultural and veterinary chemicals.
Northern Foods aims to reduce its overall Case study: Tackling packaging waste Conclusion energy use by 5% year on year from 2006 07 In conjunction with one of our retail partners, onwards by monitoring gas and electricity Northern Foods packaging technologists Northern Foods made good progress in usage.
The War on Waste programme successfully applied for funding from the developing its CSR agenda in 2005 06 and was introduced late in 2005 06 and early WRAP Waste Resource Action Programme in setting a strong, effective strategy for benchmarking showed a 3% reduction Innovation Fund to develop a reduced weight the business going forward.
Importantly, in electricity usage within this period.
The team will be looking at a the company will be able to benchmark For January to December 2005, UK CO 2 range of packaging options, with an emphasis its progress against others by participating emissions due to energy use were 230,463 on sustainable sourcing, and is due to publish in the annual Business in the Community tonnes.
Our commitment under the its findings in January 2008 when the results Corporate Responsibility Index.
UK Climate Change Levy Agreement is a of the research will be made available industry bi-annual target and we will report back wide.
It is estimated that this project could As a consequence of our approach, the on this at the end of 2006 07. deliver savings of around 216 tonnes of company has had to make choices about the packaging a year for Northern Foods, and areas of community activity it will support.
Target 2: To reduce overall water use significantly reduce its environmental impact.
Accordingly 2005 06 marked the last year of by 15% over three years donations to organisations such as Oxfam, the Case study: Exploring VSO and a number of other smaller charities.
By monitoring usage, Northern Foods aims sustainable technology As a result, charitable donations reduced to reduce its overall water use by 5% year Northern Foods continued to provide in the year from 273,000 to 89,000. on year from 2006 07 onwards.
The company guidance and assistance on key research Offsetting this reduction, Northern Foods made good progress in 2005 06, having projects in 2005 06.
This included being funded other programmes such as the achieved a reduced water usage of 719,845 a member of a project funded by the Phunky Foods sponsorship, and also invested cubic metres.
This represented a 13% Department of Environment, Food and in additional areas of activity.
These included reduction on the previous year, primarily Rural Affairs Defra LINK initiative, which is the learning centres and support for our achieved through consolidation of our working on the development of starch based environmental measuring commitments.
The research is currently being undertaken by Brunel Northern Foods believes that the progressive Case study: Driving energy efficiency University and as a potential end user, integration of CSR throughout the business, at Fletchers Bakery Northern Foods has been active in helping to and its incorporation into day to day decision Following recommendations from a project shape the research to reflect industry needs.
making, will produce a sustainable approach funded by the Carbon Trust in 2004 05, staff Similarly the company is a partner in a to our business that benefits all stakeholders at the Fletchers Bakery site implemented a government funded project which seeks to over the long term.
number of energy efficiency measures during help to reduce carbon emissions within the 2005 06.
These ranged from the installation of food sector.
This is exploring a number of a colour coded traffic lights system solutions, including Trigeneration, which will to heighten staff awareness about energy combine electricity generation, heating and efficiency, the introduction of better control refrigeration in a single process in order systems on compressors and staff training to maximise the use of energy.
through meetings, posters and leaflets to educate people about better energy management, both at home and at work.
Northern Foods plc Corporate social responsibility report 25
