Northumbrian Water Group plc 0 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Corporate responsibility FTSE4Good Left: Managing Director John Cuthbert receiving the Per Cent Club certificate from Business in the Community Right: Jenny Abel from NWL's southern demand planning team on a trip to Burkina Faso in Africa to see the good work WaterAid does NWG takes seriously its responsibilities Stakeholders also expect NWG to: regional support for local community as a company, and our corporate organisations and support for our responsibility policies underpin all our behave fairly and responsibly: adopted charity, WaterAid.
They are an integral part of use resources wisely: the way NWG does business.
improve quality of life: and NWG has been a member of the Per contribute to economic development.
Cent Club of Business in the Community NWG is a business with significant BITC for a number of years.
This requires resources notably employees, water and The operational, financial and at least 1% of pre-tax profits to be land.
We believe it has a responsibility to procurement activity is covered by our dedicated to the community in cash, use all those resources for the benefit not Code of Conduct and NWLs Sustainable time or use of facilities.
only of customers and shareholders, but Development and Environment Policies.
also for the wider community.
Other activity is covered in the corporate NWG continues to be a member of the responsibility programme.
FTSE4Good Index and NWL was again NWG uses the well-established model ranked as a top 100 company in the based on the triple bottom line i. e. the This is wide ranging and NWG gives not BITC Corporate Responsibility CR Index.
economy, the environment and society: only money but also time and facilities to The CR Index is a widely recognised help its communities.
These activities are benchmark of performance and is economic bottom line: the impact we mainly targeted to support projects which underpinned by a rigorous review have on the economic circumstances make the areas served better places in process.
It has been developed to ensure of our stakeholders and on economic which to live, work or invest.
The key a systematic approach to managing, systems at local, national and elements of the programme include: measuring and reporting upon the global levels: impacts that businesses have upon environmental bottom line: the impact an extensive community involvement society and the environment.
we have on natural resources and programme supporting the work processes, including ecosystems, land, of community foundations and NWL has also received numerous air and water: and encouraging voluntary time through awards including two Big Tick Awards social bottom line: the impact we have the Just an hour scheme and funding for Excellence from BITC for integrating on our stakeholders and the wider through Cheque it out: responsible business practice into social systems.
health and environmental mainstream operations, one for our campaigning, including our innovative water treatment works at Wear Valley Our recognised stakeholders include Water for health initiative: Environmental Impact and the other customers, employees, investors, educational programmes which for our Just an hour scheme suppliers, Government and the wider local range from curriculum support to Healthy Communities.
NWG tries to balance social, Back to Business where NWL is a environmental and economic priorities to lead partner in a pilot scheme to link In future, corporate responsibility will ensure that, whilst maintaining economic schools and businesses: be monitored by the recently formed stability, the environment is protected and environmental partnerships and Corporate Responsibility Committee, society is enhanced.
campaigns where, as well as being as set out on page 28. a member of many environmental Stakeholders expect a secure supply of organisations, NWL has developed water a basic necessity for health and some key partnerships to help the they expect us to protect or enhance the conservation and biodiversity of our environment when we return waste to sites, for example, with the Essex that environment.
Wildlife Trust at Hanningfield: and CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Right: Pupils from St Cuthberts School in Chester-le-Street enjoying water from one of NWLs mains-fed water coolers Below: Rt Hon Tony Blair with NWLs Ceri Jones and Claire Riley at the North East Economic Forum event holding 97, NWLs bottled tap water Case study: Water for health WHO: Mr Sean Brown, Head Teacher, St Cuthberts RC Primary School, Chester-le-Street.
WHAT: NWL has installed a water cooler in St Cuthberts as part of the Water for health campaign, which promotes the benefits of drinking water.
In the Chill out initiative NWL is working with the four community foundations which serve its area, and Hepscott Water Systems, to give schools access to funds to install mains-fed coolers, and so far has installed coolers in 250 schools, investing nearly 190,000 in the initiative.
WHY: Water is an essential ingredient for life.
Children need to drink at least 34 glasses of water each day while they are at school: water can improve concentration and academic performance.
A 2% loss of body water can result in a 10% drop in physical and mental performance.
Sean Brown says, We were aware of the importance of children and staff having regular access to water.
The water cooler we have in school means we can encourage everyone to drink more water.
I am grateful for the continuing support of Northumbrian Water and the work they do with schools.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts
