11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:17 Page 30 Business Review Corporate Responsibility orporate Responsibility CR has continued to gain in Objectives and targets are set on an annual basis.
In 2006, we set profile both socially and politically.
Our stakeholders are ten targets, of which six were completed, with four relating to Cincreasingly asking us about the way our business activities ongoing activity.
These targets are supported by a set of detailed impact on the environment, how we build homes that meet the Key Performance Indicators which allow the CR Committee to needs of our customers and local communities, and how we treat regularly review progress and performance in each area.
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS A robust approach to CR can improve our reputation, leading to increased customer and employee loyalty and facilitate Environment improvements in both efficiency and business performance.
We acknowledge that building energy efficient housing has a Conversely, failure to take proper account of these issues can significant role to play in tackling Climate Change.
We have damage our reputation, and in some instances lead to sanctions continued to improve the energy performance of the homes we or penalties, all of which can impact negatively on our business.
build, as measured by the Standard Assessment Procedure, maintaining the trend of recent years.
APPROACH During 2006, we generated 151,000 tonnes of house building Our approach is based on concentrating on what we do well waste, equating to 9.0 tonnes per home built.
This is a reduction building good quality houses and doing this in a responsible of 17% on the previous year.
We have recycled two thirds of this manner.
We take a pragmatic view which integrates CR with waste thereby reducing the amount sent to landfill.
This takes time and is sometimes contrary to what our stakeholders want us to do, but we firmly believe Waste generated per dwelling Tonnes this is the best way the value of these activities can be realised for our customers and the business.
10.8 Recycled Landfill Whilst CR has helped to raise the profile of these issues in the 9.0 minds of our stakeholders, they are not concepts that are new to us.
Our business has grown taking these issues into account.
We have to build good quality homes, at the right price, in surroundings and with facilities that our customers want.
We must treat and reward our employees well, so that they feel motivated and proud of what they do.
Without their skills 2005 2006 and dedication we could not achieve anything.
We must also build with respect and consideration for the environment and We continue to seek new methods of construction and demonstrate that we contribute to, and not damage, the local opportunities to incorporate innovative materials and technology community and surroundings.
Our highly efficient timber framed building system, manufactured by Space4, is a good example of this.
Living I at MANAGEMENT Irlam, Manchester, our Modern Methods of Construction project, We have a formal CR policy - the Persimmon Values was awarded the Best Innovation in the Use of Materials and that provides a constant set of guiding principles in this area.
Products at the 2006 House Building Innovation Awards.
We hope This is supported by a suite of detailed policies in each area, to use this project to demonstrate to Government and other for example, our Environment Policy.
stakeholders what is possible and what obstacles stand in the way of delivering more sustainable homes and communities.
Managing CR is the responsibility of the Persimmon CR Committee, a sub-committee of the Risk Committee.
We have again had no environmental convictions this year.
It is comprised of senior representatives from across the However, Westbury Homes pleaded guilty to damaging trees Group to ensure the right mix of strategic and operational protected by a tree preservation order damaged by its ground experience is achieved.
workers in December 2005 prior to our acquisition of Westbury plc.
30 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:17 Page 31 Business Review Working at Persimmon COMMUNITIES We have strengthened our capability to deliver affordable and We have maintained our focus on training our employees social housing through a combination of better knowledge of this and promoting skills within the industry, primarily through area, available through Westbury Partnerships, the use of new our Homing in on Opportunity education initiative.
In 2006, technology and our Group expertise and procurement strengths.
our apprentice programme produced 116 qualified, skilled In 2006, we completed 1,402 affordable and social homes, over workers and we recruited our 50th graduate into our 8% of the total homes completed by the Group.
We also launched an industry leading recruitment website to promote We are also pleased to have been selected to take part in the careers with Persimmon.
Design for Manufacture Competition, run by English Partnerships on behalf of the Department for Communities and Local Health and Safety Government, to build 42 high quality homes for a construction Unfortunately, the overall number of reportable incidents cost of 60,000 at Park Prewett Hospital, near Basingstoke.
increased during the year contrary to the trend of previous years.
This was largely due to an increase in the number of sites we CUSTOMERS operated following the acquisition of Westbury.
We have worked Over the past two years we have improved our quality control hard to introduce our policy and working practices to these processes and invested heavily in training our staff to improve sites, and will continue to focus our efforts on halting this customer service.
Our 2006 customer satisfaction survey found increase and re-establish the reducing trend.
that 86% of our customers would recommend Persimmon to a friend.
Whilst we constantly endeavour to improve customer RIDDORS per 100,000 employees satisfaction, we were encouraged by these results.
1,219 1,193 1,146 1,031 1,294 AIMS We have continued to develop our approach to CR.
We have robust policies and have worked hard to monitor and review our performance on a regular basis through the collection of Key Performance Indicators.
This has delivered measurable benefits to the business, our customers and to the communities in which we build.
We believe we are in an ideal position to 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 strengthen our approach to CR even further and over the next year we will be setting our strategy for the forthcoming years.
Legally reportable incidents under the UK Reporting of Incidents, Diseases, Dangerous Occurrence Regulations 1995.
The number of RIDDORS Our 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report and further are measured per 100,000 employees.
Our workforce includes our employees, sub-contractors and self-employed workers.
information on our policies and procedures can be found on our website at www.
During this process, we have focused our efforts on ensuring our By order of the Board most significant health and safety issues are well managed.
Subsequently, we are pleased to report that, despite an increase in Neil Francis Group Company Secretary the overall number of reportable incidents, the number of major 23 February 2007 injuries has reduced by 15%.
We have again had no health and safety convictions this year.
Stotfold 31 Persimmon Plc 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:18 Page 32 Willing and Able Willing and Able We make sure our apprentices, We make sure our apprentices, graduates and tradespeople are equipped graduates and tradespeople are equipped with the right specialist skills.
with the right specialist skills.
Andy Fuller presenting Chris Rattlidge with his apprenticeship award 11406 Dec 2006 Persimmon Front 12 3 07 17:18 Page 33 Apprentice bricklayer, Elizabeth Hodgkinson Our 2006 graduate trainees
