Health, safety, environment and security summary 8 Activity highlights At Premier, we are committed to providing a safe place of work for all our employees and contractors.
Our Health, Safety, Environment and Security HSES policy is to ensure that the impact of our activities on the health and safety of our employees, and of all personnel affected by and involved in our activities, will be reduced to a level that is as low as reasonably practicable: to maintain the security of our personnel and assets: and to strive to achieve excellence in environmental performance.
We are extremely pleased to report that our excellent Health and Safety performance record has been maintained for another year.
Our success is not just measured by our continued improvement in measurable key performance indicators KPI but also through accreditation by third parties of our capabilities.
In 2004 Premiers global drilling function was the first in the industry to achieve certification to both ISO 400 and OHSAS 800.
In 2005 our Indonesian production operations also achieved ISO 400.
In 2006 our drilling function retained its certification and our Indonesia production operations retained ISO 400 and achieved OHSAS 800.
ISO 400 is an international standard to which a companys environmental management system may be certified.
OHSAS 800 is a standard to which a companys health and safety management system may be certified.
Certification demonstrates that an accredited certifying body has independently verified that Premiers management systems fully comply with the standard.
Successful certification and ongoing surveillance audits confirm Premiers commitment to continue to meet the highest standards wherever we drill or operate.
The regulatory authorities in the UK and Norway now require operators to have established health, safety and environmental management systems.
This certification confirmed Premier as fully compliant in the UK and contributed to the successful award of operatorship status in Norway.
Health and safety Premier is fully committed to excellent HSES performance and recognises that this requires specialist resources, particularly in new and remote areas where increased effort may be required.
Our HSES function is headed by a Group HSES Manager based in the corporate headquarters in London.
He is supported by dedicated local HSES teams in Indonesia and India and roving teams of retained advisors for other countries of operation.
These teams have been selected for their individual expertise in seismic, drilling, construction and production operations both onshore and offshore and are further supported by retained specialists in areas such as quantitative risk assessment QRA and environmental impact assessments.
In 2006 we continued specialist training in emergency preparedness, and regularly tested emergency response plans to ensure readiness.
These skills and resources form an essential part of our worldwide crisis management teams and business continuity plans.
The primary health and safety KPI used by Premier is the lost time injury frequency LTIF.
However, we prefer to report our safety performance in terms of both lost time injury LTI and restricted workday case RWDC frequency to better capture our safety performance trends.
In 2006 we worked some 3.3 million man-hours, up 4 per cent from 2.9 million in 2005.
The resultant combined LTI and RWDC frequency was.
24 per million man-hours for the year which was marginally worse than 2005.
The 2006 performance represents a 5 per cent improvement from 2004.
43, which we believe demonstrates a sustained improvement over time.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Performance In the arena of process safety we revised the safety case we introduced for the Anoa 9 field in Indonesia to include the new West Lobe wellhead platform.
We enhanced our maintenance management system to identify and capture safety critical equipment performance and we are working towards a full verification scheme to confirm that equipment performance meets the expectations in the safety case.
In 2007 we will have a new initiative on the identification and in depth analysis of incidents and, as importantly, near misses which have the potential to cause fatality or major environmental or asset damage High Potential Incidents.
We looked hard at the health of all persons working offshore or in remote areas and the fitness for work health examinations they undertake.
We now encourage all employees to include a stress cardiogram test to confirm that they do not have any incipient heart conditions.
Where practicable we are expanding this programme to include all consultants and contractors.
Through our travel risk assessment process we are endeavouring to ensure all business travellers are made fully aware of the inoculations necessary at their destination, any specific or new health risks and appropriate contingency measures.
This is particularly relevant when travelling to mosquito-prone areas or areas with known cases of disease outbreak such as Bird Flu or Cholera.
Environment In 2006 there were 29 reported environmental incidents worldwide.
Most of these incidents involved small spills of hydraulic oil, diesel or chemicals to the deck and were not discharged overboard.
We incurred only one significant incident, which involved the spill of some 40 barrels of oil-based mud to sea following a well kick.
The spill had a very minor effect on the environment and quickly dissipated.
However, this incident was classified as high potential and has been thoroughly investigated and corrective actions implemented to prevent it recurring.
In 2003 Premier started to collate environmental performance data for public reporting.
We included this in the 2004 Premier Sustainability Report and followed the Global Reporting Initiative GRI reporting framework.
In 2004 and 2005 we improved on this strategy and published the findings in our Social and Environmental Responsibilities Report, issued last year.
The collation of performance data has continued.
With these comprehensive data sets we are now in a position to identify historical trends and look at annual and five yearly forecasts.
In line with our strategy of reducing our carbon footprint, we are looking specifically at atmospheric emissions and have identified and measured all greenhouse gases emanating from our operations.
With this information we may now highlight areas where we should concentrate on improvements and set tangible improvement targets for the future.
2005 saw us include biodiversity in our corporate HSES Policy.
We have delivered on this policy and include risks to local biodiversity as part of our Environmental Impact Assessment EIA process.
Wherever practicable we have engaged with local stakeholders to ensure that we have the best baseline data available and that this is reflected in our EIAs.
Security We have now embedded security threat assessments as part of our risk management process and are pleased to report that there were no major security incidents during the year.
We have taken the opportunity this year to integrate our security, business continuity, disaster recovery and emergency response processes.
We conducted exercises in London to simulate the loss of the head office due to fire or terrorist incident and these confirmed that we would be able to continue business without significant impact.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006
