Our impact on society Corporate responsibility As a provider of passenger transport we play a vital economic and social role in the lives of the millions of people across nine countries whose communities we serve.
With this role comes a responsibility for our impact on society that we take very seriously.
Safety In managing our social impact we focus on four themes, The safety of our customers and employees is our number from the boardroom to our depots: one concern.
Safety - operating our services in a way that minimises Safety practices are reviewed regularly by the Board Safety the risk to our passengers, bystanders and employees: Committee, which is responsible for reviewing and reporting to the Board on the groups internal safety management Employees - helping our people to make the most of system, overseeing the group safety policy and the their potential, and being a good employer: arrangements for its implementation.
As our group grows Community - making a positive impact and building we aim to achieve the highest standards by passing on best on the value we provide with our transport services: practice to new businesses that we acquire.
Environment - finding the right balance between We continue to develop and deliver a range of businessenabling people to make the journeys that enrich their focused safety training programmes that meet strict quality lives, and helping to minimise the environmental criteria, many of which are externally accredited.
Our investment in new technology has also played a major Formal policies set out certain aspects of our approach to role in ensuring the bus remains one of the safest ways to the wider community.
Our set of Corporate Responsibility travel on land.
We are on track to have installed closedpolicies can be viewed on our website at circuit television CCTV systems on nearly 75 per cent of www.
CCTV has also been rolled out in many of our European operations.
These systems have been well received by the travelling public and by our employees, who recognise the protection that they offer.
As well as helping passengers and drivers to feel safer the cameras also have an important role to play in the investigation of accidents.
By enabling a better understanding of the underlying causes of many accidents, the CCTV systems, in some cases complemented by aviation-style black box recorders, help to feed back into training, and result in improved driving standards.
26 Moving you across Europe 23C 6 22 23 18 23 101 18 60 6 17 20 36 64 12 4 6A 21 2 20 2420 6 6 61 64 68 101 300 30 17 20 66 30 38 39 Employees X21 We invest in our people and encourage them to reach their Across our operations, our vocational training programmes 2426 5 2 60 full potential, because it is their contribution and effort that continue to deliver great results, in fields as varied as 1 3 4 helps the group achieve its vision.
We have undertaken dealing with conflict, improving service and quality, computer the major task of surveying our entire workforce, in a bid to skills, and advanced driving techniques to improve road understand what more we can do to help them perform safety, passenger comfort and fuel consumption.
The results highlighted some important learning The Arriva Graduate Development Programme is in place points which we have absorbed into management thinking.
across Europe, designed to create the next generation of Our employees told us that there was great scope for business leaders for the group.
So far we have recruited in improvement in internal communication and ensuring that Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and the UK.
people at all levels of the business have the opportunity to Participants receive a thorough grounding in the transport raise ideas and concerns based on their practical experience.
industry and gain a full understanding of what makes During 2006 we built these factors into a training and Arriva successful.
development programme across our businesses aimed at giving our front-line supervisors and managers improved At Arriva our aim is to create an environment where everyone skills in communicating effectively with their teams.
Feedback feels welcomed and valued.
Arriva has been named as one from the pilot programme has been highly encouraging, of Business in the Community's BiTC's top ten overall and we are making the training programme available more performers in the Race for Opportunity RfO awards.
We will repeat our survey in 2007 and will continue recognises the efforts organisations make to ensure their to use employee feedback as a valuable source of guidance.
workforce is diverse and differences are valued and understood.
Our diversity training in the UK has also won In the UK Arriva has 24 learning centres operated in a major CBI award, while in Denmark we have introduced partnership with the Transport and General Workers Union.
a scheme to encourage women from ethnic minorities to Each centre has between four and eight computers, and become bus drivers.
Arriva also sponsors a Danish diversity access to Learn Direct courses as well as our own online awareness campaign, Give the Red Card to Racism, in resource, the Arriva Learning and Development Gateway.
cooperation with the Danish professional footballers union.
Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 27 Our impact on society Corporate responsibility continued Community Our primary benefit to the communities we serve comes Castleford Tigers Rugby League team touring schools with directly from the transport services we provide.
But we an Arriva bus to promote road safety, highlighting the have more to offer, and our work with charities, youth damaging effects of vandalism and encouraging youngsters groups, sports teams and the arts reflects our public to take up sport.
vision: As a people business, we value, encourage and We take our role in promoting community safety very celebrate the contribution our employees and others make seriously, especially in the area of transport.
Arriva Trains to the communities we serve.
Wales has sponsored performances of a new production by In the UK our businesses undertake many locally-based the Welsh National Opera, Sweetness and Badness aimed activities including: at youngsters to highlight the dangers of railway trespass.
In Denmark Arriva gives practical and financial support to free transport for community groups: The Night Ravens, a respected multi-ethnic community support for local organisations and charities with free support network of almost 7,000 volunteers who monitor advertising on buses: the streets and public transport systems of Copenhagen and other cities in the evening and at night, in support of educational visits to spread safety messages to safety and dialogue with young people.
youngsters: and In Spain and Portugal, Arriva operates a Child Safe donations to support fundraising efforts by local campaign for families who are on holiday.
Parents travelling charities and employees.
on our buses receive a brightly coloured wristband for Arriva realises that sport can help to educate and bring their child on which they can write their contact details.
One example is in Liverpool, where we The bands carry a special logo and if a child gets lost they have joined forces with Everton Football Club to raise can go into shops which have the same logo in the awareness among school children of the benefits of window or approach police or lifeguards.
The campaign healthy eating and an active lifestyle.
A special bus will was launched in both countries in partnership with local visit more than 8,000 school children under 11 in the first authorities during the summer of 2006. year.
A similar initiative has taken place in Yorkshire with 28 Moving you across Europe Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 29 Our impact on society Corporate responsibility continued Environment Access to transport and freedom of movement are at the We will be using the data to identify areas for improvement heart of progress in economic and social well-being.
In doing so we will not However, transport also makes significant contributions to limit our activities to operational imperatives based on greenhouse gas emissions.
One of the challenges faced by carrying passengers, but will also aim to improve the modern society is therefore how to maintain the necessary carbon-efficiency of our ancillary functions such as the travel benefits of travel while keeping environmental impacts down.
that our own employees carry out in the course of business, and the way we manage our depots and other facilities.
Public transport has a great deal to offer as part of the answer to maintaining vital mobility, underpinning freedom The aim of the research is to gain hands on experience of movement and economic prosperity while keeping a brake and a working knowledge of new and novel technology on unnecessary emissions.
so that we can make effective investment decisions that result in an environmentally sympathetic transport We are in the process of carrying out an emissions infrastructure for the future.
assessment using business data that is robust and verifiable, that will show where our biggest sources of greenhouse gas Arriva is actively seeking to identify and implement viable emissions are generated.
This will enable us to develop low emission and renewable fuels.
Our desire to minimise effective plans to manage our emissions in the future, with our impact on the environment keeps us at the forefront the long term aim of reducing significantly the CO2 impact of developments.
The diversity of our fleet and operating of a given passenger journey.
markets allows us to evaluate quickly the possible benefits of innovations, and to implement solutions rapidly.
The assessment is the first step in the carbon management process and is the basis of further initiatives such as public In our London business, with Transport for London, we are reporting, target setting and the implementation of effective conducting trials of the worlds first hybrid double-decker mitigation and reduction schemes.
We are being assisted bus.
The bus uses electric motors in tandem with diesel in this carbon footprinting process by the Edinburgh engines to reduce emissions by a potential 40 per cent.
Centre for Carbon Management, a leader in the field.
30 Moving you across Europe In Germany we use environmentally friendly biodiesel, We are looking at several of our facilities closely with a derived from locally grown rape seed oil, for our train view to installing novel technology that will optimise the operations and our Bils bus business.
The use of biodiesel use of gas, electricity, fuel, oil, and water.
Many of our bus reduces net CO2 emissions by up to 90 per cent for the washes already recycle up to 95 per cent of the water that operation of these vehicles.
washes each bus, and include systems to prevent the discharge of harmful chemicals.
Although the contribution of vehicles to greenhouse gases is the environmental effect that most people think of The priorities and solutions for managing our environmental when considering a business like Arriva, there are other impact in one location are often not the same as in another ways in which we can limit our carbon footprint, and location.
There is greater scope for use of solar power in other matters such as air quality and use of water also still southern Portugal than in Scotland, and a greater need to remain important.
save water resources in Spain than in the Netherlands.
Nevertheless, where we find good practice and innovation Since 2001 Arriva has invested over 480 million in delivering benefits, we always look for ways in which other modern buses and trains that are in line with, and parts of Arriva can benefit.
sometimes exceed, the latest EU environmental standards.
All new buses now meet the strict Euro 4 benchmark, whilst new trains meet the Euro Stage 3A standard.
As part of our drive to improve group emissions we are now bringing our Portuguese bus fleet in line with the rest of our European operations and general policy of standardising vehicles on Ultra Low Sulphur Diesel ULSD.
Arriva Trains Wales is one of four UK train operating companies to be conducting trials of ULSD.
Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 31
