Corporate responsibility As the largest pub operator in the UK, with over 9,200 pubs, we understand the importance of social responsibility and the sale of alcohol.
Owning our responsibilities, valuing our communities We actively support the Pub is the Hub scheme designed to place the pub rmly at the centre of Responsibility to our communities communities through the offer of additional services, Punch Taverns takes all aspects of responsible drinks often to rural communities, and through the more retailing extremely seriously.
As the largest pub effective use of unlicensed property for other uses operator in the UK, with over 9,200 pubs, we such as shops and have many examples in the estate.
understand the importance of social responsibility and the sale of alcohol.
Responsibility to the marketplace Our industry needs good people to thrive.
Our We are taking the lead in devising and implementing industry leading and award winning training courses responsible drinks retailing initiatives, promoting equip our retailers and managers with the necessary these initiatives to our retailers and managers and skills to maximise returns on their businesses, to helping them manage potentially negative situations.
develop professionalism and realise the full potential We understand the effects that irresponsible of their pubs.
An ongoing process of follow-up drinking can have on people and communities, training continues throughout their relationship with and our approach not only encompasses binge Punch to ensure that skills are kept up-to-date and drinking and underage drinking, but also includes that opportunities for development are maximised.
anti-social behaviour such as excessive noise, As an industry leader we are mindful of the inuence nuisance and, of course, drinking and driving.
we can have in decision making processes and actively support a number of key industry organisations.
Where We continually include reminders and information those organisations become involved in lobbying and in our marketing support materials and aim to inuencing processes, we are happy to contribute to coordinate our communications and training activity debate if asked, and to put forward knowledgeable, to coincide with times when people are likely to drink senior people to represent the interests not only of more.
These periods include Christmas and events ourselves, but of the industry as a whole.
such as this summers World Cup.
Responsibility to our people We actively support industry initiatives to promote We aim to become an employer of choice and are responsible drinks retailing, including the Morning committed to practices which make this happen and Advertisers Responsible Drinks Retailing Scheme earn the loyalty and commitment of all of our people.
winning their 2005 Responsible Retailer of the Year Award for our efforts.
This is an initiative that we Effective and regular internal communication is have supported for the last two years, and have central to that aim: all of our people know what is cascaded to our pubs by issuing over 20,000 posters happening in our business and our industry and we and other information packs to all of our pubs.
In addition to that, we also listen also support the Ill be Des initiative which encourages to their opinions through a regular team brieng groups to nominate Des a designated driver for the process and an annual employee survey which evening.
Over 50% of our retailers are active members feeds into, and enables, management decisions.
of local Pub Watch schemes, to identify and control Our annual employee conference gives all Punch rogue elements within their communities.
staff the chance to hear key messages direct and first hand and this year included head ofce and We also recognise the potential for good that our pubs eld based support managers from the managed offer to their communities.
Within our leased and business.
Within the managed estate, our managed estate, the instances of involvement in pub managers also have a conference to hear charitable activities and fundraising are far too many corporate messages and to meet each other.
to count and our retailer excellence awards The Shine Awards generated over 30,000 in fundraising Employee training starts with a thorough induction alone through the innovative use of a phone voting for new recruits and is ongoing throughout process to establish the winners.
Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 7 Corporate responsibility continued Our reward and remuneration packages are market are strictly monitored and measured and all are leading and represent another way in which the thoroughly investigated before a response is issued.
Group attracts and retains first class people.
For Responsibility to our neighbours Punch employees, they include the Groups share Pubs within communities have a responsibility to incentive plan to encourage share ownership which respect their neighbours and not to upset or disturb is currently taken up by 58% of the eligible full time them.
There are many laws and regulations in place workforce within Punch.
Employees of the managed to control potential nuisance such as noise and the estate are encouraged to enjoy the Groups pubs licensing conditions attached to our pubs further dictate through monthly discount vouchers and we maximise the limits of what we can and can not do at any site.
these visits through rewarding feedback on the pub sent in by visiting but off duty employees.
However, this does not relieve us of the responsibility to be aware of local sensitivities at all times.
Sometimes in life we all need a little extra support and our Employee Assistance programme is in place Over the year, several such instances have arisen and to offer counselling and advice services in complete we have always acted in the best interests of both confidence for a range of life issues.
the community and the business when attempting to reach compromise solutions.
Responsibility to the environment In common with many businesses, we know that We handle with sensitivity and regard to local feeling, we are active consumers of scarce resources, and issues such as the perceived inappropriate use of a site we take our responsibility to minimise our impact in a rural community, local opposition to the on the environment very seriously.
installation of mobile phone masts on pub buildings, delays in re-building pubs which have been the victims Paper and plastic waste generated by our ofce of re damage and the re-naming of pubs to bring operations is recycled through special collection them up to date.
We communicate electronically as far as possible through e-mail and discourage printing for the sake of it.
Our workforce is spread widely.
As such, we have put in place initiatives to encourage car sharing for our ofce based staff and so reduce driven miles, including guaranteed priority parking places.
The Spirit Group ofce won a regional Green Travel Award for its efforts to reduce car miles such as car sharing and cycling to work.
We also actively encourage home working where practicable, providing the technology to make this available as far as possible within the needs of the business.
This is regularly taken up by our more distant employees without affecting the efficiency of the business.
This year, we have invested 78m in over 950 of our leased pubs in schemes of all kinds, working with our retailers to maximise their business potential.
Such schemes are always carried out with the needs of the community in mind and, where necessary, we always work with local planners and preservation groups to preserve the integrity of the local community environment being mindful of the prominent position that our pubs occupy.
Responsibility to our consumers We know that we can not always please all of the people all of the time and take any complaints that we do receive very seriously.
During the year the leased estate attracted an average of 29 complaints per month from members of the public about all aspects of our operations, including noise impacts, service standards and a range of other issues.
The managed estate receive calls of all kinds into their central call centre operation and, where such calls demand some form of resolution, they are referred to the relevant eld based manager for local resolution.
We always take these complaints very seriously and see them as an opportunity to highlight shortcomings in our standards, areas of training need or issues of a regulatory nature.
Response times to these complaints 8 www.
