| | 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PZ Cussons is committed to running its business with integrity and with care insofar as the social and environmental impact of our activities is concerned.
We aim to make a positive impact on society through the products we manufacture and sell, through our commercial operations and through the voluntary contributions we make to the community.
Corporate social responsibility CSR is a traditional value for the PZ Cussons organisation and is key to the way the company operates throughout the world.
Through competitive employment policies we add value into the areas in which we operate by helping to meet the differing product needs of customers in developing countries and investing in more efficient production technologies and systems.
PZ Cussons takes regular account of the signicance of social, ethical and environmental SEE matters to the business of the company and we have ensured the availability of adequate information to assess and manage SEE issues.
The company strives to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct and corporate responsibility to ensure that reputable business practices are applied worldwide and ethical issues are dealt with in an effective and transparent manner.
There is a strong emphasis throughout the organisation on commitment, trust, teamwork, personal accountability and commercial acumen.
The environment PZ Cussons takes regular account of the signicance of environmental matters to the business of the company and has identied and assessed risks arising from its operations both to the environment and to the companys short and long-term value.
PZ Cussons is committed to playing its part in protecting the environment, for the benefit of its employees and the public at large.
The company has ensured and will continue to ensure that it complies with environmental laws and regulations and will continue to identify the environmental impacts of the business and nd effective ways of reducing them.
We continue to implement systems to enable the measurement of certain environmental indicators, such as energy and water use, emissions to air or water and waste generation and we design our new and upgraded plants and processes to be energy efficient and low maintenance.
We also work closely with relevant local water authorities in order to identify potential water saving methods.
In the UK the company has focused on waste collection and recycling to improve the management of our waste and to improve recycling.
Our manufacturing processes, facilities, distribution practices and products are designed to minimise the effect on the environment.
The company ensures that the design and development of new products take into account the potential environmental impact of production and appropriate measures are taken to contain such impacts.
The company will continue to provide the guidance necessary to ensure high standards are achieved at our manufacturing sites around the world whilst promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk assessment and comprehensive management systems.
During recent years there have been major factory operating and efficiency improvements throughout the Group as we move towards world class manufacturing excellence.
Health and safety PZ Cussons aims to maintain a safe workplace at all locations in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business activities are undertaken in a responsible manner and in accordance with the relevant statutory legislation and that employees at all levels participate in the development, promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
The company employs health and safety specialists and, where appropriate, provides on-site medical facilities for employees.
The company continues to monitor and increase standards of health and safety at work through risk assessment, safety audits, formal incident investigation and training.
Our investment in plant and equipment enables us to modernise designs and operate safer and more efficient processes.
Employment and staff development As an international group, and particularly bearing in mind our operations in developing countries, we focus resource on the employment and development of local staff with the intention of assisting both our operations in those countries and the local community.
Employees are involved at all levels of decision-making throughout the Group with effective communication via regular consultation groups and briengs.
Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in performance and over the past year employees of all grades have received training through a wide range of courses.
The employment policies of the Group embody the principles of equal opportunity, training and development and rewards appropriate to local markets which are tailored to meet the needs of its business and the areas in which they operate.
This includes procedures to support the Groups policy that disabled persons shall be considered for appropriate employment and subsequent training and career development.
The company continues to share valuable experience and best practice within the Group through employee secondment.
PZ Cussons UK Limited is accredited with the Investor In People Award, recognising our commitment in developing our people in line with business needs.
Our appraisal-based progression systems ensure that individual needs are continually assessed.
| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 39 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Community and charity We support a range of charitable causes, both in the UK and overseas, mainly through a UK based shareholding trust and additional contributions are made through staff time and gifts in kind.
PZ Cussons continues to provide assistance and donations to significant global fund-raising initiatives and recognises its responsibility to the communities in which it operates.
We are committed to establishing and maintaining strong relationships with community groups, particularly in developing markets.
Product safety PZ Cussons is committed to understanding issues involving safety associated with our products and supplying safe products to consumers.
Human safety assessments for personal care products are carried out under the Cosmetic Products Directive.
We also have in place more general guidelines relating to product safety, covering raw material use, labelling and packaging requirements.
Animal testing None of our products are tested on animals.
We support the development and acceptance of alternative methods that reduce or replace the use of animals in product safety evaluation.
We are in regular contact with our suppliers to ensure that our values on this subject are shared and where feasible they work to similar standards.
Development of CSR reporting Corporate social responsibility is acknowledged at the highest level at PZ Cussons and the board has reviewed and fully endorsed the CSR review.
We are continuing to focus on establishing practices that will allow us to manage and monitor our social and environmental impacts in greater detail to enable us to further develop our corporate social responsibility reporting.
