New business Organic growth opportunities continue to be evaluated in the The company has continued to six countries the company is operational in and has also assess new business and merger commenced an initiative whereby an African hunting team and acquisition opportunities world has been tasked to review countries which are equally wide, retaining a specific focus on prospective for multi-million ounce gold deposits but were previously low on our ranking scale.
These countries will be organic growth within the African selected on the basis that the political and fiscal conditions continent.
could be changing for the better.
Distinct from the organic growth route we have also tested growth options through possible M&A opportunities.
As part of this strategy we carried out due diligence audits, both desk top and on-site, during the year, within and outside Africa, including one full corporate due diligence.
Examination of these projects confirmed none would fit our stated objective criteria that any corporate acquisition should either be demonstrably strategic or value accretive for our shareholders.
EXPLORATION AND NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT: HUNTING THE NEXT MULTI-MILLION AFRICA OUNCE DEPOSIT Gold occurrences 1 Moz gold deposits Neoproterozoic Mesoproterozoic Paleoproterozoic Archean 42 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 Social responsibility Randgold Resources is committed POLICY STATEMENT to the integration of environmental Its integrated social and environmental management process identifies potentially significant negative and positive impacts.
and social impact management into The implementation of environmental and social responsibility its business activities.
The optimum strategies aims to minimise negative impacts and maximise the positive impacts of its activities, commensurate with its utilisation of mineral and other business strategy and within national and World Bank standards.
resources encompasses the The strategies it uses to achieve this include the following: protection and conservation of the Encourage and reward the use of integrated environmental existing environment.
Within this management to ensure that management decision making framework, the company strives to processes include a sensitive and holistic consideration assist the communities most of environmental issues.
To facilitate this, all projects must include a comprehensive environmental and social impact affected by its operations to develop assessment.
Where appropriate, specialist consultants in a sustainable way and to give all are employed.
its employees a high quality of work Maintain positive relationships with neighbouring communities, local and national government authorities, life, including a safe workplace.
NGOs and aid agencies and the public.
Respect and consult with the communities in the areas affected by its operations so that these communities receive fair treatment and where possible benefit from the companys activities.
Budget a percentage of profit to be used for sustainable community development projects.
The projects are selected and prioritised in consultation with communities and carried out in cooperation with community members.
Aim to forge a pact with employees through having respect for fundamental human rights, including workplace rights, employee development and the need for a healthy and safe workplace.
Strive for the highest quality of rehabilitation, waste management and environmental protection in the most cost effective manner.
Strive to optimise the consumption of energy, water and other natural resources.
Through the introduction of new alternative environmentally friendly products and processes, as they become available, avoid the use or release of substances which, by themselves or through their manufacturing process, may damage the environment.
Practice responsible environmental stewardship to meet the demands of local communities, host country government requirements and international standards and strive for continuous improvement of environmental performance.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 43 For details of the implementation of the social responsibility The parties have agreed, through joint funding, to address: policy, refer to the review of operations on page 20 to 23 and The improvement of governance, transparent planning.
and management of common resources at the commune 27 to 28 and the human resources report below.
ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Improved commune managed communications.
Randgold Resources carries out its operations within the Basic education through teacher training.
guidelines outlined in its social responsibility policy and in Improved community health.
accordance with World Bank standards.
This alliance will increase the annual amount spent on community The Morila Mine obtained its ISO14001 certification during development projects in the area from US$150 000 to 2006 whilst in the first year of production at the Loulo Mine, US$275 000.
ISO14001 training procedures were put in place with the aim of moving towards compliance.
Other major successes in community development at Morila this year have been the rice growing projects at Fingola and At Loulo, the first phase of a cyanide detoxification process Morila.
These were financed and set up by the mine and run has commenced.
This comprises the introduction of a tailings by the women of the two villages.
During the first season of thickener, which allows the return of water back into the process production, the women produced and sold 10 691 kilogrammes circuit.
This facility should be commissioned later in 2007. of rice.
They made a healthy profit that enabled them to finance The second phase due for implementation early in 2008, their next seasons rice growing activities.
involves the destruction of cyanide using Degussa technology.
At Morila in 2006, a total of US$164 287 was expended by Additional information relating to the environmental activities at the mine on community development projects.
the mines is contained in the review of operations on pages 20 and 27.
At Loulo, the community liaison and development efforts, which have been ongoing since 1996, have been stepped up in this first full year of production.
Loulo, which like Morila follows the HUMAN RESOURCES REPORT Randgold Resources sustainable development strategy, carries SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND COMMUNITY out such activities in villages surrounding the mine through a DEVELOPMENT representative local community liaison and development The sustainable development and social responsibility strategy committee.
The committee consists of traditional leaders from forms an integral part of the companys overall business strategy all the villages within a 10 kilometre radius of the mine, the and is implemented throughout all offices, projects and mines community development staff, the Mayor of Sitikily and operations, including Morila.
This strategy recognises that the the Sous-Prfect of the Kenieba Cercle, who represents the effectiveness of Randgold Resources community development central government.
This year, co-operative projects between efforts can be increased through forming synergistic alliances Loulo mine and villagers have seen more than US$175 196, with professionals in the field, such as NGOs and aid agencies excluding the amounts spent on medical services to that have solid track records.
communities, expended by the mine on its social programme.
The three pillars of this programme are basic education, food During 2006, Morila entered into a new three-way alliance with security and basic community health, which includes access the aid agency, US AID, and the Commune of Sanso.
goal of this alliance is, through the three-way partnership, to address poverty reduction and accelerate economic growth Social programme activities have included: in the communities in the villages around Morila mine, in support The building, maintenance, and equipping of schools, as of the Government of Malis decentralisation goals.
well as the subvention of teacher salaries.
