Regus Report & Accounts 2006 18 Corporate responsibility The responsible management of our social, environmental and economic Our people impact is integral to our business.
Our commitment to Corporate We rely on our people to provide the high quality of Responsibility CR is not simply a response to increased market pressures service our customers expect.
In return we work hard in this area, but such issues reinforce the way that our business operates.
Our aim is to maximise and develop their skills, provide opportunities for personal The Board believes that the integration of CR throughout the business and development and achieve high rates of employee the incorporation of broader social and environmental issues into day to day satisfaction.
decision making will benefit all our key stakeholders and better enable us to Equal opportunities achieve our target levels of business performance.
We value our international reputation and respect the communities in which we operate.
We uphold the Corporate Responsibility Committee principal of equal opportunities and strive to meet In 2007, we will set up a formal Corporate Responsibility Committee to high ethical standards.
The Committees aim is to ensure that we take a Health, safety and security sustainable approach to business to do the right thing for our shareholders, We are committed to providing a healthy and safe our customers, our suppliers, the community and the world around us.
environment for our employees, customers, and for all visitors to our premises.
We aim for best practice in Members of the Corporate Responsibility Committee will be drawn from health and safety throughout all our operations.
We across the business, to ensure that corporate responsibility is at the heart support a proactive culture of risk management to of our daily operations.
ensure accidents and incidents remain as low as is reasonably practicable.
Its remit will be to provide strategic direction and guidance on all aspects of Environment and sustainability business practice and responsibility and ensure consistent implementation We recognise that our activities have an impact on the across our operations.
The Committees priority is to set out a clear world around us.
We are committed to protecting the framework of responsibilities that are specific to Regus as well as those environment through the prevention of pollution and that are common to all large businesses.
We will strive for continual improvement of our environmental performance.
In 2007 we will produce a Corporate Responsibility report which describes Business practice our main impacts, defines our strategy and sets out future priorities.
This Our internal codes of practice require business report will initially be based on our UK operations with a future priority to roll professionalism, honesty and integrity in all that we do.
this out to our international operations.
We seek to comply with all relevant legislation and to maintain good relationships with all our stakeholders.
Our stakeholders Customers We understand the issues that matter to our customers and stakeholders, Our customers are our business.
In order to maintain and know that getting them right builds loyalty and makes our business high levels of satisfaction we are constantly assessing more sustainable.
the views of our customers and delivering improvements to our service and product offering.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee will help ensure that social, Products and services environmental and ethical issues are a natural part of the way we do business.
We continually strive to improve the quality of our The Committees aim will be to ensure that we take a sustainable approach products and services and their delivery to our to business to do the right thing for our shareholders, our customers, our customers.
We work to minimise, as far as possible, any negative impacts associated with our business suppliers, the community and the world around us.
We will take account of the views of our stakeholders on all aspects of our product development Business integrity and service delivery.
A Group-wide Code of Ethics has been in place since January 2006.
This sets out a number of fundamental principles which all our companies and Business partners and supply chain We promote long term development with our business employees are required to follow.
In keeping with our decentralised approach, partners and our operations work closely with landlords businesses are required to adopt their own codes which respect local and suppliers to maintain the integrity and continuity cultures and businesses but which also set standards that are still no less of service expected by our customers.
exacting than those detailed in the Group-wide code.
To a large extent these individual codes simply underpin and endorse existing practices.
We Communities and charities We believe in social investment and encourage our operate a confidential whistle blowing service to support employees who operations to become active members of the societies want to eliminate wrongdoing in the workplace.
in which they operate, supporting employee involvement wherever possible.
We encourage charitable fundraising Environment and sustainability and support charitable initiatives throughout the world.
The nature of our business means that we have to recognise that we have an impact on the environment.
We are committed to managing the way in which activities affect the environment by: Optimising the use of energy Ensuring efficient use of materials Encouraging re use and recycling Incorporating the principle of sustainable development.
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 19 Environmental policy We are committed to managing It is our policy to: the way in which our activities Minimise the extent of the environmental impacts of operations within affect the environment.
our influence Strive to minimise any emissions or effluents in our business centres, which may cause environmental damage Conserve energy through minimising consumption and maximising efficiency Promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise waste and allow materials to be recycled where appropriate Employ sound waste management practices Implement procedures and support information that enables compliance with the law, regulations and code of practice relating to environmental issues Monitor environmental performance, make regular reviews of the policy and make improvements where possible.
Environmental impacts The main environmental impacts of running our businesses are the generation of carbon emissions through the consumption of electricity, gas and transport activities, including business travel and commuting.
Some of our locations operate a recycling and energy waste reduction policy.
Where possible we liaise with property owners and our clients to ensure that any recyclable waste from our operation from waste paper to print and toner cartridges is collected and recycled.
Also, wherever possible, we ensure that lighting, heating and air conditioning meet energy conservation standards, and the non-core items or equipment are timed to switch off automatically.
Carbon emissions are produced as a result of the consumption of electricity, gas and transport usage.
Key factors in minimising the generation of carbon emissions include the design, fabric and management of office premises to maximise energy efficiency.
Our people We rely on our 4,300 employees to provide the high quality of service our customers and visitors expect.
In return we work hard to look after our people.
Our aim is to maximise and develop the skills of our staff, provide opportunities for personal development and achieve high rates of employee satisfaction.
Talent attraction and retention Regus has a reputation for attracting and retaining exceptional people people who are success-orientated, spirited and driven to help others and themselves achieve more.
Our people are at the heart of our business, so it is vital that they are trained to the highest competency.
We provide a career path designed to allow individuals to achieve their very best within the Regus Group, whether they choose to stay in their region, or aspire to take advantage of our international locations.
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 20 Corporate responsibility continued Training and development Group policy is to provide opportunities for personal development at all levels in the organisation.
We ensure that: Employees are provided with adequate and appropriate training to allow them to fulfil their job description Appropriate opportunities and resources for the training and development of employees are made to all staff Employees are rewarded appropriately for improving their skills and capabilities Training and development of employees is recorded and reviewed on at least an annual basis as part of the performance management system.
Work life balance We promote a healthy lifestyle and where possible encourage a healthy work life balance.
We recognise that the health and welfare of our team members is important to the effectiveness of the business and the need for employees to maintain a healthy work life balance is encouraged.
In our centres we operate flexible working practices which give us the edge in retaining experienced and well trained staff and allows us to align our team members hours to the evolving needs of the business and our customer requirements.
Turning SMARTideas into reality Via SMARTideas Regus suggestion scheme, our team members are encouraged to submit ideas that enhance the way we do business.
Suggestions can be made on any area of the business.
The potential of each idea is assessed, many are developed into projects, and the most We recognise that the health innovative ones are rewarded with prizes.
and welfare of our team Communication members is important.
The Company is committed to enhancing two-way communication through the process of team meetings, which our managers will hold on a regular basis.
Through team meetings and information cascaded down from the senior team, employees are encouraged to feed back comments and opinions through their manager on any aspect of the business.
Information about the business Our team members value communication.
Each month our regional CEOs distribute Focus an ezine, which covers regional performance, achievements and priorities.
In addition, on a quarterly basis the Group Chief Executive, Mark Dixon emails to each team member a copy of In Touch an ezine which summarises the latest news from around the world.
The content although varied month on month includes inter alia team member recognition of great customer service, VIP visitors to the Regus Group and new location openings.
Pages of information at our peoples fingertips The Regus Groups intranet, SMART, has been designed to ensure that every team member can instantly access a wealth of information, 24 7, that helps them to serve our clients to the best of their ability.
With content tailored to a team members region and function, SMART is an integral tool to our open communications strategy.
It is updated, round the clock, by dedicated Helpdesk Team, with each member logging in at least once every working day.
Regus Report & Accounts 2006 21 Health and safety Regus is committed to maintaining a secure health and safety working Inspiring innovation new start-up grants To date, Regus has helped launch more than one environment and accepts no compromise on health and safety issues.
This million new start-ups across the world.
Selected new is not only driven by legal responsibility, but also by the ethical desire to start-ups choosing to launch their business with Regus protect employees, customers and visitors.
can apply for a grant designed to help them with the provision of space and services at a reduced cost.
The Company has developed a Health and Safety Manual that sets out the Donating facilities and space obligations of team members to ensure a safe working environment for our Where possible, support is given to our chosen charities team members and clients.
A breach of the Health and Safety Manual will through the provision of space at no charge, either for result in disciplinary action.
administration purposes or fundraising events.
Under the health and safety frame work, local management must have European Women of Achievement Awards EUW EUW is an independent European organisation, which suitable procedures in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and supports women in all aspects of political, civic and regulations and, wherever possible employ best practice.
For the past two years Regus has supported the Women of Achievement Awards by The Company is required to ensure that sufficient team members are providing rooms and refreshments at no cost.
trained as first aiders and fire wardens.
They are volunteers and undergo The Beacon Fellowship regular training.
The Beacon Fellowship Trust Beacon is an organisation set up to encourage individual We are proactive in our approach to health and safety by monitoring contributions to charitable and social causes and proposed changes in legislation and implementing policies accordingly.
to celebrate and showcase best practice in giving.
Beacon awards annual prizes to individuals and Customers organisations who have made exceptional Our customers are our business.
In order to maintain high levels of customer contributions to charitable causes.
Winners to satisfaction we are constantly assessing the views of our customers through date include Zac Goldsmith, John Profumo and customer service questionnaires and exit interviews.
All our centres are Jamie Oliver.
monitored and targeted on the levels of customer satisfaction and the levels To date, Regus has assisted in setting up the charity of satisfaction have remained high over the last few years.
and providing free office space.
London Triathlon In addition we conduct mystery shopping which has helped increase the Regus, with partners and clients fielded 14 teams and likelihood of repeat purchases and recommendations.
five individuals for the 2006 London Triathlon with the aim of having fun, firming up bonds and raising funds Business partners for two charities Great Causes and DebRA.
They We promote long term relationships with our business partners and our succeeded on all three counts and the event secured operations work closely with suppliers to maintain the integrity and continuity 13,400 for Great Causes and 15,000 for DebRA.
of service expected by our customers.
Great Causes raised a further 9,400 which increased their donation to Sightsavers to 22,800.
The donation Regus UK have been working on a robust approach to managing ethical was used to support the Cuttack District Comprehensive and environmental standards in the supply chain.
As a result, Regus UK Eye Services Project in rural India where eye services only work with certified suppliers.
A reasonable expectation would be to are not accessible to most of the people.
integrate these standards into our global procurement processes over the Our goal in 2007 is to enter 400 competitors for the next two years.
Initial concentration will be on major suppliers, areas of high London Triathlon and raise 200,000 for three charities risk and renewed new contracts.
Great Causes, DebRA and UNICEF.
Ashley Giles and Cure Leukaemia charity Communities and charities As part of Ashley Giles benefit year and Cure Leukaemia Notwithstanding the international nature of the business, Regus around the charity, Regus hosted a celebrity golfing experience world continues to operate with a high degree of autonomy.
We recognise our which raised 2,449. responsibility to invest in the communities in which our business operates NSPCC and to act as a good corporate citizen.
The Group supports charities relevant Through organising a Christmas raffle, Regus UK to the countries and to the locations in which its business operate.
These employees raised 5,200 for the NSPCC.
charities are wide-ranging and cover health, welfare, education, civic and Variety Club of Great Britain community projects as well as culture and the arts.
Regus UK donated 21,000 to part fund the purchase of a Sunshine Coach for disabled and disadvantaged children.
