LOOKING TO THE FUTURE Rentokil Initial Australia is helping to improve the natural environment by supporting Rainforest Rescue, a not-for-profit organisation set up to protect and restore Australias priceless rainforest areas.
So far this initiative has purchased an area of land equivalent to the size of 35 modern suburban blocks between a State Reserve and the Daintree Park, helping to conserve endangered plants, animals and birds.
We also provide a school grants scheme which aims to support schools and their communities in the areas of environmental improvement and protection.
Rentokil Initial plc [Corporate Responsibility] MILLIONS KG This year also saw the launch of the talent development programme, a major training and development initiative targeted at 350 managers worldwide.
Work continues also in the general development of Basic Skills amongst the companys hourly paid employees.
Environment Initiatives We recognise the importance of managing all aspects of our Major continental plants All European textiles plants environmental impacts.
In particular, the management of energy and water usage has been a long-term focus, particularly within As with CO2 emissions, previous years water usage measurement the major textiles laundry plants.
These achieved reductions in has been derived from the textiles laundry plants, based on verifiable CO emissions of 21% between 2000 and 2005.
Between 2000 and 2005 a 14% improvement in water usage was This year, for the first time, the company has collated actual recorded across all major textiles plants.
In 2006, a further 5.7% year or estimated energy usage from around 95% of its worldwide on year improvement was achieved.
Of this, over 80% is actual data with the remainder The following graph shows data from previous years, together being realistic estimates.
with comparable three year data for major European plants France, In 2006, the companys total CO emissions were 271 million 2 Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Also shown is the combined kilogrammes, equating to 3,870 kilogrammes per employee.
Within water usage of all European textiles plants including Austria, Spain these figures is vehicle fuel consumption the company has a fleet and the Czech Republic.
A significant reduction in 2006 arose as a of nearly 16,000 vehicles worldwide, split roughly 50:50 between cars result of the closure of the UK laundry plants.
In 2006 all UK service vehicles were diesel and, on a worldwide basis, 71% of the companys vehicle fuel consumption LITRES PE R KG was diesel.
Roughly one third of all the companys CO emissions emanate 2 from its textiles plants.
In the first graph, emissions of the major textiles plants in France, the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium are shown representing an improvement of 12.4% year on year.
In addition, the graph shows the total emissions for 2006 for all European textiles plants, including the smaller plants in Austria, the Czech Republic and Spain.
All major European Major European plants All European plants textiles plants including excluding UK excluding UK UK plants now closed TOWARDS BEST PRACTICE laundry, together with warehousing, Efficient energy and water use has dispatching and administrative areas.
always been important for textiles A key focus for the new operation is water laundry plants.
In particular, the laundry plant will European textiles operations began to have an environmentally friendly water take a more radical approach to treatment installation, using a membrane improvement in environmental impact.
bio reactor, to permit the reuse of up to Initial Textiles Services is building a 50% of pumped water.
new industrial laundry complex in Lokeren, Belgium.
With an investment of 15,300,000 the largest investment ever made in a textiles laundry plant by Rentokil Initial.
The complex will consist of the 36 Rentokil Initial plc [Corporate Responsibility] The company is also supporting customers to reduce water usage.
An extensive range of activities took place in 2006, including: For instance, in December 2006 the company acquired Enviro-Fresh In Indonesia, employees and the company provided support to an innovative company which has developed a product for urinals help those affected by the Java earthquake, including improving called SaniSleeve which, together with its EnviroFlush system, hygiene and sanitation in the area.
reduces flush water usage by up to 90%.
In Singapore, the business has continued its support for the ongoing drive to fight Dengue Fever.
Marketplace Initiatives In Hong Kong, the business was proclaimed Caring Company The responsibility for relationships with customers and suppliers is 2005 06 for its participation in community services.
now largely the responsibility of individual businesses.
The company In France, the Tropical Plants business continued its support has developed Good Practice Guides to support them in their for Les Enfants fide la Terre, a charity that helps disadvantaged dealings with their customers and suppliers.
One of the companys most significant responsibilities is In the USA, the Tropical Plants business worked with New Yorks product stewardship, particularly related to pest control products.
ProjectFIND, a non-profit organization dedicated to helping In 2005 2006, an authorised products list was produced for all older adults in New York City, to establish the Grassroots Senior businesses, followed by information on product training and Healing Programme.
directions, with a requirement to produce labels and instructions in the local language.
This was complemented in 2006 by the businesses The companys support for community investments includes a recording and auditing product use and product disposal together programme to support rainforest conservation in Australia, support with packaging waste classification.
More details of this activity are for the Safer London Foundation in the UK and our HIV AIDS included in the Towards Best Practice box below.
Within company procurement activity, about 30% of purchased In another section of this report, the company declares the products and services are bought or co-ordinated centrally, with amount of charity donations.
It should be noted that this figure does regular supplier assessments including social, environmental and not take into account provision of gifts in kind or of employee and ethical issues.
In 2006, the company introduced a Supplier Code management support.
of Conduct to help our supply chain understand what is expected.
Community Initiatives Rentokil Initial regards its responsibilities to the communities in which it operates and its employees live as particularly important.
TOWARDS BEST PRACTICE Rentokil was highly influential in a new In the UK it helped establish a campaign Product stewardship is rightly receiving scheme regarding the management of to encourage responsible rodenticide use, increasing attention from governments one of the most hazardous compounds known as the Campaign for the and NGOs.
It addresses the impact of in use in the industry - phosphine gas.
This a products lifecycle including issues The scheme the Register of Authorised is intended to reduce the incidents of such as labelling to ensure safe customer Metallic Phosphide Stockists restricts secondary poisoning to wildlife due use and the elimination of hazardous the availability of metallic phosphide to consumption of treated rodents materials which may have effects fumigant gases to correctly trained by other animals.
beyond the products direct purpose.
personnel with managed access In addition, the business has also restricted to this material through approved The pest control business is at the forefront the potential misuse of chloralose baits distributors.
of its business sector in respect of product against wildlife by reformulating an stewardship and has been influential in re-packaging the product.
Previous guiding the industry down responsible routes.
products were phased out during 2006.
37 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 MOVING OUR COMPANY FORWARD In 2006 we continued to progress the strategy we formulated in 2005 to redirect and re-energise Rentokil Initial and restore it to sustainable profitable growth.
2005 was focused on developing a detailed plan and to ensuring we had the right business structure and management team in place.
2006 has been a year of action to implement this plan.
Rentokil Initial plc [Board of Directors] Directors and Secretary 01 Ian Harley 02 Doug Flynn 03 Brian McGowan 04 Peter Long Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Aged 56.
Appointed a director and chief executive Aged 62.
A director of British Energy in April 2005.
He was previously chief executive a director in October 1996 and non-executive Appointed a director in October 2002.
Chief Group plc and Remploy Limited.
Past president of of Aegis Group plc, having joined the board as chairman in July 2004.
Chairman of UMECO executive of First Choice Holidays PLC.
Nonthe Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Formerly chief a non-executive director in 1999.
Prior to this, he plc and Catalyst Corporate Finance LLP.
executive director of Debenhams PLC.
Formerly executive of Abbey National plc.
An independent spent 13 years with the News Corporation Limited Formerly chief executive of Williams plc chief executive of Sunworld Limited.
in the UK and Australia, latterly as managing and chairman of House of Fraser plc.
director of News International Plc.
Before joining News Corporation Limited he was with ICI for ten years, working in Australia and Hong Kong in 05 Peter Bamford 07 Andrew Macfarlane 08 Alan Giles various management roles.
Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Aged 52.
Formerly chief marketing officer and Aged 50.
Appointed a director in May 2006. director of Vodafone Group plc having held senior director in August 2005.
He was previously group A director of Wilson Bowden Plc.
Formerly chief 06 Duncan Tatton-Brown executive roles at Vodafone, including as chief finance director of Land Securities Group plc.
Prior executive of HMV Group plc and managing executive of Northern Europe, Middle East and Non-Executive Director to that he was chief financial officer of Bass Hotels director of Waterstones and a member of the Africa operations and chief executive of Vodafone Aged 42.
Formerly a non-executive director of board of WH Smith PLC and a non-executive UK.
An Appointed a director in July 2005.
An independent independent non-executive director.
director of Kingfisher plc, having been previously non-executive director.
He was previously chief financial officer of Virgin Entertainment Paul Griffiths Group.
Secretary Senior Management Andy Hobart Andy Kemp Michael Cooke David Liu Divisional Managing Director, Group HR Director Managing Director, Regional Managing Director, Aged 56.
Appointed Group HR Director in Pest Control and Tropical Plants Parcel Delivery Asia Pacific October 2005.
Previously Group HR Director of Aged 44.
Joined in 1980 and has held various Aged 52.
Previously Aegis Group plc, News International, TDG and managing director of RAC RBS Joint Venture management positions in the UK, continental headed Aegis Media, Asia Pacific which had Bovis International.
Before joining Bovis held a company Lex Transfleet and prior to that held a Europe, Africa and North America.
Appointed operations in 14 countries across the region.
number of HR appointments at the rank of number of senior management positions within managing director of City Link in 1998.
Before this held positions with Saatchi and Saatchi, captain and major in the British Army.
Peter Lloyd Mark Boyle Clive Hayton Henry Chandler Divisional Managing Director, Group Strategy and Managing Director, Divisional Managing Director, Facilities Services Development Director Electronic Security Textiles & Washroom Services Aged 56.
Joined in 1986 having sold his retail Aged 46.
Joined in 1996 when Shorrock was Aged 46.
Appointed Divisional Managing Director cleaning company to the group in 1985.
Prior to Development Director of Compass Group PLC acquired as part of BET.
After being head of Initial in November 2006 having previously held current role, appointed managing director of having previously spent 14 years in banking with Electronic Security Systems and Initial Electronic executive responsibility for Electronic Security, City UK Cleaning in 2002.
Lloyds Bank International and Kleinwort Benson.
Security, was appointed managing director of the Link and Facilities Services.
Joined in 1996 when groups whole electronic security business in 2002.
Style Conferences was acquired as part of BET.
