26 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 RHM has been comprehensively reviewing Governance its corporate social responsibilities.
It is A clear structure exists to manage the Corporate building on the long-term efforts of its breadth of activities which can be viewed various operations in these areas, together as part of CSR.
The structure ensures with more central corporate activities, to activities are both managed within the Social pull the threads together and demonstrate business as day-to-day processes rather how the Company views its role and than as an overlay on the business, responsibilities wherever it has an impact.
at the same time permitting visibility, Responsibility direction and coordination across the This section provides a summary of the Group.
The CSR strategy which guides Companys approach in these areas, this approach is overseen by the Board and bringing visibility to work carried out in Review managed by the Executive Committee.
its businesses over several years.
A Steering Group supports this strategy Background in three distinct areas: Food & Consumer, RHM has been able to build on a rich Environment, Health & Safety, and heritage of achievement in its approach People, Society & Community, each led to corporate social responsibility CSR, by a functional manager.
stemming from its origins in 1875 with the Rank family whose philanthropic approach has been well documented.
From these beginnings, the Group has grown its strengths in science, today running one of the leading laboratories in Europe for toxin and specialist trace contaminant and GM testing.
RHM employs over 500 food scientists and has an extensive quality system with laboratories accredited to IS0 17035 for numerous analytical measures.
The Group has for many years been able to translate this expertise in food science into new product development.
From as early as 1886, with the introduction of wheatgerm bread, and in 1955 the development of Nimble, the gluten enriched loaf, as a low calorie alternative to traditional bread, through to Hovis Best of Both and Hovis Invisible Crust, such product innovation and improvement has been central to the Groups business.
The chart below shows a summary of the key CSR activities in RHM: Food & Consumer Environment, Health People, Society & Safety & Community Food Safety Product Security Health & Safety Employees Diet & Health Environment Community & Charity Ethical Marketing Corporate Governance Ethical Trading Diversity Marketing Ethical Trading 27 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility Review Food & Consumer Environment, Health & Safety Food safety is a key priority for the Group The Group actively promotes the importance and it ensures that all its products are of health, safety and environmental safe to eat by the identification and issues through clear accountabilities and control of food safety risks throughout governance processes.
Key performance the supply chain.
Wherever possible, it is indicators KPIs are set for all areas the Companys policy to go beyond the of the business in terms of reducing legal minimum in ensuring the safety of accidents, improving safety and minimising its products.
These targets are regularly benchmarked and reviewed.
In addition to passing key audits from our major customers, the Group carries out Group-wide policies have been in place for internal food safety and hygiene audits, a number of years, supported at operational and provides training aimed at continually level by a central Environment, Health & improving standards to exceed legal Safety team, which develops standards, requirements on all sites.
provides training and audits all sites.
All products are clearly labelled in Health & Safety compliance with all current and relevant Through close management of Health & legislation.
The Group provides its Safety, RHM has reduced the number of consumers with peace of mind by reportable accidents per 100,000 hours continuously reviewing and proactively worked from 1.22 in 2004 to 0.63 in 2006, addressing the food safety issues that are with a target for 2007 of 0.5.
The rate of relevant to its products.
An appropriate 12.84 reportable accidents per 1,000 due diligence testing regime is agreed with employees is better than the food sector the Groups dedicated scientific branch, average of 18 1000.
RHM Technology, to ensure that technical The Royal Society for the Prevention of specifications are met.
Accidents Awards for Accident Prevention The Group has clear policy statements on were awarded to sites in Erith and all relevant food and consumer issues Bradford.
As noted overleaf, the Group including palm oil, trans fatty acids, played an important role in the Health & GM foods and chemical contaminants.
2005 campaign, Through a Food Policy Forum and aimed at reducing musculoskeletal injuries representation on various government sustained from manual handling incidents.
bodies, we continue to develop ethical The frequency of manual handling marketing positions.
The Group engages accidents throughout the Group fell closely with Government agencies, industry by 20 per cent during the year.
bodies and health groups in promoting diet and health.
This has seen a number of initiatives to reduce levels of fat, salt and trans fat in our products, which took over 600 tonnes of salt out of the UK diet in 2004.
Plans exist to provide clear Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs on all packaging alongside existing product information, allowing consumers to make even more informed choices about what they eat.
RHM reportable accidents per 1,000 employees Current HSE Benchmark 2005 06 2004 05 2003 04 2002 03 2001 02 2000 01 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Reportable accidents 28 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility Review Working in partnership with the People, Society and Community Heath & Safety Executive A key achievement in the year has been to Working with a Regulator can be build a focused leadership group, and to quite challenging so we were delighted launch a Leaders Forum comprising around when RHM took up the challenge to join the 50 most senior positions in the Group.
with the Health & Safety Executive to This forum is the key strategic group make a difference via BACKS!
2005. through which the transformation of RHM, RHM provided valued input to the as well as Group-wide communications, National Stakeholder Forum and worked is being managed.
In the last two years successfully to raise awareness and reduce over 50 per cent of this forum has been risks in-house.
All parties benefited from recruited from leading blue chip companies the partnership which involved pooling across different industry sectors.
resources and ideas with a clear focus on The Groups approach to ensuring it has outcomes a reduction in musculoskeletal the best people running the businesses disorders.
RHMs in-house results speak has been to combine the hiring of quality for themselves.
external personnel with the selective identification of leaders with experience Geoffrey Podger, Chief Executive of and skills within the Group.
the Health & Safety Executive, speaking about RHMs participation in a major HSE New processes have been implemented initiative focused on reducing work-related around the management of people, in back injuries.
particular to ensure that the right people are in the right jobs.
The Group promotes Environment skills development in many areas such as The Group has in place a risk-based marketing, customer management, food environmental audit programme to provide technology and supply chain management.
ongoing assurance and identify specific areas of risk and liability.
We are often one of the largest employers in our local communities and seek to be an In 2003 environmental KPIs developed employer of choice.
We have a diverse and by the Food & Drink Federation were experienced workforce and aim to reflect adopted, and these are monitored on the communities around our site locations.
A programme to reduce the use of energy and waste is managed Neighbours through an Operational Excellence Group.
By their very nature, our manufacturing and distribution activities are often The Group participates in the Governments managed on continuous shift bases, Climate Change Agreement, achieving cuts sometimes for 24 hours a day and 7 days in emissions, resulting in a rebate of 2m a week.
We recognise that this may be on the Climate Charge Levy.
disruptive to our immediate neighbours RHM intends to continue to focus on the and organise our activities so as to environment as a priority area through minimise inconvenience, whilst maintaining improving data management and setting the operational efficiency necessary to targets on water usage and waste, in our business.
addition to attempting to meet targets already set on reducing energy usage and carbon dioxide emissions.
29 RHM Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility Review Community involvement SEDEX works by allowing the Groups Many of our employees are involved in customers access to ethical information community activities.
RHMs community regarding working practices, environmental involvement varies from site to site, but practices and employee standards such as typically might include: discrimination policies and labour relations that the Group has placed on a central support for local charities: website for access.
The Group similarly providing food hampers for local events: accesses such information with regards offering places for schoolchildren on to its own suppliers.
Although this work experience: information is initially self-certifying, offering places for sandwich students, the Group requires periodic audits to be A level or university students carried out, and will audit any supplier during holidays: falling below certain standards.
providing access to RHM facilities for local community groups.
The Group has committed to ensure all its suppliers of ingredients and RHM is a member of Business in the packaging complete a SEDEX questionnaire Community and also supports a number or equivalent, and is moving towards of food industry benevolent organisations a position whereby all suppliers must in the UK and Ireland.
achieve certain standards in order to Employee consultation do business with the Group.
SEDEX has RHM met its obligation under the been supported by a group of retailers Information and Consultation of Employees and suppliers.
Regulations 2004 by continuing to run Other key areas of focus have been to a European Employment Forum, and reduce packaging waste, promote an holding regular business reviews with overall energy strategy, reduce the trade unions at national level.
number of supplier deliveries, and RHM is committed to improving employee implement backhaul arrangements with communication and consultation and some suppliers.
Delivery routes have intends to carry out an employee survey been rationalised, and a fuel monitoring in 2007, targeting areas for improvement.
system is being developed, which will help reduce the impact of emissions on the Ethical trading and the supply chain environment.
A programme of ethical The Group procurement function has audits is carried out at all operational sites.
developed a set of operating policies and procedures that clearly outline the Future CSR policy approach to ethical trading and behaviour RHM is fully committed to the achievement towards suppliers.
RHM was the first UK of the highest standards of corporate and food producer to have these policies and social responsibility.
Food safety and the procedures accredited by the Chartered health and safety of employees have Institute of Purchasing and Supply.
always been of primary importance to RHM.
Significant progress has been made The main focus of our ethical trading during the year under review, in these policy is to follow best practice, as set and other areas of CSR policy, and we out via the industry standard, SEDEX, anticipate reporting on the adoption of a the Suppliers Ethical Data Exchange.
range of additional initiatives in 2007.
The Group is a founding partner of SEDEX and sits on its main governing body.
SEDEX exists to enable the exchange of data on working conditions within the supply chain in a secure manner, and helps companies to identify and take action to improve their ethical performance.
