Corporate responsibility Why corporate responsibility matters The Group continues to build on these achievements, including running The Group believes that commitment to corporate responsibility delivers competitive programmes to support the development of HS&E management systems in its advantage and contributes to the delivery of the Groups business strategy.
This has included supplier workshops in the UK and North America and a The Groups Global Code of Business Ethics underpins our values and engages continuation of the supplier HS&E visit programme.
The number of suppliers certified our stakeholders in building and maintaining the Groups reputation.
to ISO 14001 in 2006 more than doubled.
Conducting business in an ethical and responsible way helps the Group in a A full report on the Groups HS&E performance over the period 2004-06 number of ways: will be published in April 2007.
Independent assurance will be provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
we attract and retain the best people: we build goodwill and maintain successful working relationships with customers, Environment: product performance suppliers and governments: and The Chief Executive has highlighted earlier in this report that Rolls-Royce is both we encourage the giving of donations to charities which support the global committed and well placed to find solutions to the substantial challenges posed by communities in which we conduct business.
The Groups environmental team closely monitors developments in The sustained wealth, created by providing thousands of highly skilled jobs, the underpinning science and their advice helps steer the significant research and represents the Groups single greatest contribution to those communities.
development programmes, as well as providing input to the overall business strategy.
The Group supports its own employees with well-developed policies and Such knowledge is also vital to the design process.
practices in occupational health, safety and environment, employment policy and In addition, the Group obtains independent expert advice from its employee learning and development.
This Board is made up of distinguished academics who are leading authorities in their respective fields.
External recognition In the aviation sector, the fuel efficiency of Rolls-Royce aero engines has The Groups achievements during the year were recognised when it held its highimproved by 20 per cent over the past 25 years.
The Group is playing a leading role ranking position in the 2005 UK Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility in the achievement of the long-term environmental goals set by the Advisory Index.
It also retained its inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe and is investing substantial funds in research and development and in the introduction of new products with enhanced Health, safety and the environment HS&E environmental performance.
The Groups approach to HS&E is first and foremost shaped by the desire to avoid Rolls-Royce is an active member of the UK Sustainable Aviation Council SAC, harm to people and the environment, and it is also recognised that good HS&E which published a sustainable aviation strategy in 2005, the first of its kind, and its first performance is synonymous with good business performance.
The Rolls-Royce progress report in 2006.
The SAC is an industry body committed to building a vision is that it will become known for the excellence of its health, safety and sustainable future, which comprises manufacturers, airlines, airports and air environmental performance.
The Chief Executive chairs the Company HS&E committee, which is comprised The Group is involved in a range of product development initiatives across all of the sector presidents and functional directors and is responsible for setting policy, business sectors.
These include alternative energy and low-carbon technologies such objectives and targets, defining strategy and reviewing performance.
as the development of the high-efficiency solid oxide fuel cell.
These fuel cells offer The Groups objectives are to protect health, prevent injury and reduce other environmental benefits, such as low noise and improved air quality.
Performance levels are achieved by the implementation of an The Group endorses the principles of emissions trading, a mechanism which integrated HS&E management system, which utilises a structured risk management over time should enable markets to identify and invest where the most cost-effective approach.
All the Groups businesses have gained third-party certification to the improvements can be made.
international environmental management systems standard ISO14001.
A full report on the environmental performance of the Groups products will The Group continues to participate in the voluntary UK carbon dioxide be published in April 2007. emissions trading scheme and the Chicago Climate Exchange and has programmes in place to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
Supply chain It is with great regret that the Group reports a fatal travel accident during The Group sets expected business requirements and performance standards through 2006 involving a service engineer.
The Major Incident Board, which is chaired by the its supplier quality system, Supplier Advanced Business Relationships SABRe.
Chief Operating Officer, has reviewed this tragic accident and measures have been SABRe includes a supplier code of conduct and a health, safety and environmental implemented to avoid reoccurrence.
Regular meetings are held between Rolls-Royce and all levels The Groups HS&E audit programme independently assesses the effective of suppliers.
implementation of all elements of the HS&E management system.
Audits completed The Rolls-Royce purchasing code of conduct for employees complements the in 2006 covered operations in the UK and Norway.
supplier code of conduct and ensures that employees act consistently with suppliers.
The Group operates three sites in the UK which manufacture, test and support nuclear reactor cores for Royal Navy submarines.
All these sites continue to maintain Partnership approach a strong health, safety and environmental performance, which is independently The Groups partnership approach to its supply chain: monitored by the Nuclear Propulsion Assurance Committee, chaired by the Director delivers mutual business benefits: Engineering and Technology.
minimises the environmental impact of business operations: The Group recognises HS&E initiatives and related improvements in encourages the highest standards of ethical behaviour: and performance through Company HS&E Awards presented by the Chief Executive.
Recognition is also given to those sites achieving zero lost time injuries over the year.
In 2006, the Group was again placed first in its business sector in the Business in We are establishing local purchasing offices around the world, which will develop the Environment index of corporate environmental management and also retained mutual understanding between Rolls-Royce and its network of suppliers.
Rolls-Royce was selected as the UK entry in the management category for the European Business Awards for the Environment 2006.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 38 Business review Regular visits are made to suppliers to assess their performance and an ongoing Employment policy programme of communication continues to reinforce supplier partnerships.
The Groups employment policies continue to develop the flexibility, capability and motivation of all employees.
The introduction of Exostar, an e-business system accessible by our suppliers provides significant benefits including: In recent years, we have introduced a range of policies including: enabling virtual teamworking: modern working practices in operations: reducing the need to travel: and improved methods of encouraging employee involvement: and encouraging more regular and effective communication.
a global approach to attracting and retaining talented people.
The sourcing policies of Rolls-Royce in the US reflect US Government regulations Employee involvement on small and disadvantaged businesses.
The Group provides competitive pay and benefits for employees in each locality and actively encourages share ownership.
All employees are regularly invited to Social responsibility participate in ShareSave plans and the workforce has committed to save some During 2006, the Group concentrated on updating its supplier policy to include 90 million to buy shares in the Company.
Statutory arrangements enable UK social responsibilities.
New guidelines will be issued during 2007. employees to receive part of their annual bonus in Company shares and to make The Group is recognised for its continuing contribution to corporate monthly share purchases from their salary.
responsibility through the recycling of material in its supply chain where We continue to work closely with employee representatives to improve the significant metal recycle levels have been achieved.
Rolls-Royce has also introduced quality of employee engagement and participation in the development of the returnable container loops across its major UK suppliers to reduce the use of business.
This progress is reinforced by the continuing development of the Global disposable packaging.
The Council comprises employee representatives from around the world and provides a structured approach to consultation and communication.
Occupational health During 2006, the Global Council met twice and additional interim meetings of The Group recognises the link between physical and mental health and the need its Executive Committee ensured that key issues identified by the Council were for employees to work effectively and successfully with proper regard for their progressed.
The Group launched its second Global Employee Engagement Survey in In response, the Occupational Health Policy Group develops the Group November 2006 previous survey 2004, and the results will be fed back to strategy and identifies relevant areas of changing occupational health needs.
employees in the first half of 2007.
All employees will have the opportunity to The Group is committed to promoting best practice in occupational health.
discuss the issues emerging from the survey and will be involved in formulating It hosted the UK national launch of a joint Faculty of Public Health and Faculty of action plans to address them.
Occupational Medicine initiative onCreating a healthy workplace.
Human rights and ethics Key areas of focus In 2006, following consultation with the Global Council, the Group agreed a Global The occupational health strategy concentrates on four key areas: Code of Business Ethics and Human Rights policy.
A global training and communication programme for leaders and employees screening and surveillance: will take place during 2007 to help promote effectively and widely the Global Code rehabilitation: of Business Ethics.
Diversity The Group is committed to developing a diverse workforce and equal opportunities In screening and surveillance, stringent targets are set for assessing fitness for work, for all.
In support of the Global Diversity Policy, a Global Steering Group was reducing occupational disease and work-related ill-health.
A campaign to reduce established and improvements made to local policies.
noise-induced hearing loss continues and the Group has an international reputation These policies support initiatives to encourage more women and people from for its management of hand-arm vibration syndrome cases.
minority backgrounds to pursue careers in engineering.
In 2006 graduate recruitment The priority in rehabilitation is early intervention and the active case comprised 30 per cent females and 23 per cent international trainees.
The Group also management of individuals.
Training assists managers in managing absence and introduced a targeted graduate programme in Asia.
The importance of health and productivity was included in In addition, the Group organised a global conference for women role models the Groups management development programmes in 2006. and a womens leadership conference in the US.
We also helped the launch of a Health promotion in 2006 included two awareness campaigns on physical network for female employees in the UK and plan to support similar networks in activity and alcohol.
Employees were encouraged toGet active, Get up & Goto other countries.
highlight the benefits of physical activity on health and well-being.
The aim of the The Groups policy is to provide, wherever possible, employment training and alcohol campaign, Know your limits, was to raise awareness of safe drinking levels development opportunities for disabled people.
It is also committed to supporting and the effects of alcohol on health.
employees who become disabled and to helping disabled employees make the best External recognition possible use of their skills and potential.
Rolls-Royce was a winner of the National Obesity Forum Primary Care Award for Excellence in Weight Management 2006.
This award recognised its achievements in Learning and development the UK campaign, Reduce Hazardous Waist!.
The Group has continued to invest in the training and development of employees, Independent research for Norwich Union Healthcare on ill-health and absence customers and suppliers to strengthen its competitive position.
In 2006, expenditure cited Rolls-Royce as promoting a healthy workplace and proactively managing on the education, training and professional and leadership development of adverse health effects to achieve a reduction in absence.
Dr Ian Lawson, the Groups Chief Medical Officer, was made a Fellow of the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine in 2006.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 39 Corporate responsibility continued Employees As a forward-looking, innovative and global company, Rolls-Royce Group plc is The Group continued to focus on developing its leadership by strengthening its committed to being a good corporate citizen in its operations throughout the world.
succession plans and talent pools.
It also strengthened its management and The Groups policy on donations is to direct its support primarily to causes with development programmes by joining the consortium Global Leadership 20 20 educational, engineering and scientific objectives, as well as to social objectives programme, led by the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College in the US.
connected with the Groups business and place in the wider community.
Training programmes continued to help improve processes and to raise A list of the principal donations made in the year is available upon request to the standards of performance and customer satisfaction.
New programmes were Company Secretary.
introduced to promote a new services behaviour.
Focused support Training was delivered to support the introduction of new factories and the In 2006, the Group achieved sixteenth position in the UK Guardian Newspapers continued development of global operating systems.
This included: Giving List, demonstrating its commitment to supporting the communities in which its employees live and work around the world.
Our policy is to give priority modern working practices: to activities supporting education, the environment, arts and culture, and economic team-based working: and and social regeneration.
This approach supports the Groups values of reliability, the Rolls-Royce Production System.
Training in support of Product Lifecycle Management and Enterprise Resource Planning In 2006, the Groups total charitable donations amounted to 1.2 million.
continues to enable the Group and its supply chain to deliver products and services During 2006, charitable donations in the UK amounted to 728,000.
They included of a higher quality and with greater efficiency, in support of the Groups services support for The Princes Trust, Community Foundations, SS Great Britain, The Industrial strategy.
We have increased the availability of online learning and seen a 250 per cent The Group has made charitable donations of 507,000 in other key regions.
increase in the use of e-learning packages over the past 12 months.
In North America, this included support for the work of United Way, the Smithsonian During the year, the Group recruited 154 graduates and 155 apprentices and National Air and Space Museum, the United States Air Force Museum Foundation technicians.
In addition, 599 undergraduate students were employed for training and Purdue University.
In Germany, we supported a range of organisations, including periods of between two and 12 months.
At the end of the year, a total of 295 the Brandenburg Summer Festival, World Youth Day and the International Airport graduates were on formal training programmes and there were 420 apprentices and Race.
In the Nordic countries, Rolls-Royce supported a number of local sports and technicians worldwide.
In 2006, the Group was ranked second in its business sector arts-based projects.
and 23rd overall in the UK Times Newspaper Top 100 Graduate Employers list.
In addition to charitable donations, contributions of 2.5 million were made by At the end of 2006 the Group employed 38,020 employees in over 50 countries.
the Group, primarily in sponsorship and to educational programmes.
Educational sponsorship The Group also finances the administration of a Payroll Giving Scheme for UK The Group continues to work closely with schools, colleges and universities to employees.
In 2006, the scheme helped employees to donate over 400,000 to more promote science, engineering, technology and enterprise.
Our policy is to work with than 200 charities of their choice.
Fifteen per cent of employees take part in the governments, local and national institutions to widen studentsexperience of scheme, one of the highest levels of participation in the UK and the scheme is industry and promote careers in the aerospace, marine and energy sectors.
In 2006, recognised as Gold Award standard by the UK Governments Payroll Giving Charter this included running two cohorts of the Young Apprentice programme in the UK for Mark.
In addition, 37 per cent of employees in North America have contributed in 14-16 year olds.
During 2006, Rolls-Royce also took an active part in the development excess of 180,000 to good causes through United Way schemes, a percentage of of the National Skills Academy for Manufacturing in the UK.
which is matched by the Company.
In 2006, the Group hosted an awards dinner to recognise the first winner of the In 2006, each completed questionnaire in the Global Employee Engagement Rolls-Royce Science Prize.
The prize promotes and rewards innovation and excellence Survey, guaranteed a donation to the Rolls-Royce Disaster Relief Fund, created to in science teaching throughout the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
The winning continue the activities undertaken following the 2004 tsunami and hurricane Katrina.
team, Crown Woods School from London, was awarded 20,000 to invest in science In addition to providing financial support, the Group encourages employees to education.
The Group gives a total of 120,000 in prize money each year as part of participate in community projects to enhance their own skills and experience.
In 2006, examples included: Another flagship education activity, Profitable Pursuit, is a business simulation to a series of team challenges which involved 160 senior managers completing stimulate enterprise education in schools.
During 2006, over 120 teachers and community projects in Berlin during the annual Senior Management Conference: advisors were trained.
Other projects include Open Industry, Specialist Schools and 250 new trainees taking part in a challenge in the UK as part of their induction Science and Engineering Ambassadors in the UK.
In the US, Rolls-Royce supports programme: Project Lead the Wayto encourage students to consider careers in engineering and providing business mentors and advisers through The Princes Trust, Young technology.
Enterprise and Arts & Business: Customers running successful mentoring and literacy programmes for school pupils through The Group continues to meet customer training needs with management and education business partnerships in the UK and the Helping One Student to business education and, during 2006, over 17,000 days of training were delivered to Succeed HOSTS programme in Indianapolis, USA: Rolls-Royce customers.
This was completed either through the Groups dedicated supporting employees who are School Governors: Customer Training facilities in North America, Europe and China, or at its customers participating in the UKs Science and Engineering Ambassadors Scheme: and locations.
supporting students in the For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology FIRST robotics programme in the US.
Community investment The Group also offers support in-kind to local community organisations by donating Rolls-Royce has a long and successful history of community involvement which surplus computer equipment and office furniture.
It also provides places on in-house benefits the societies in which it operates and contributes to its long-term business training courses, and offers the use of meeting rooms and office accommodation.
Rolls-Royce is a member of Business in the Community and actively supports Structure Common Purpose programmes across the UK.
These two organisations aim to The Group community investment and sponsorship committee, chaired by the Chief promote greater business awareness and involvement in wider community issues Executive, is responsible for the Groups policy on charitable donations.
The Group and to encourage more employee participation.
committee is supported by a number of national committees which operate within the following guidelines: Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2006 40
