Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY waste.
The Group is continually developing policies and procedures necessary, provide training that meets best practice: Corporate Social on these issues to minimise its impact on the environment.
Monitor, measure, audit and seek continuous improvement in its environmental performance: Responsibility Rotork considers its positive environmental impacts include its Work with external agencies and bodies to ensure continued contribution to sustainable development and environmental adoption of best practice solutions in environmental improvement through the products and services it sells.
The management: Companys products are used around the world to operate industrial Communicate best practice and publish internal and external valves in all environments, including those which are hazardous and information detailing is aims and achievements: in many types of industries, including water purification, sewage, Foster open communication with employees, customers, food processing, marine, irrigation, power generation and oil and gas.
suppliers and other stakeholders via both electronic publishing and face-to-face discussion.
Rotork products help reduce human error and thus potential environmental disasters, whilst saving energy and resource.
Within the 2006 Environmental Report at www.
com The Company has considered the guidelines on Social Responsibility information and data can be accessed about how Rotork managed its published by the Association of British Insurers and takes full Rotork is continuing to develop and produce energy efficient products key environmental impacts.
The data includes information on gas and account of the significance of environmental and ethical matters in with improved performance.
electricity consumption, CO2 emissions, water consumption, the conduct of its business and in its risk assessment processes.
hazardous waste and recycled waste.
Rotork remains fully committed to the principles laid down for its Wherever possible new products and components are marked with inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index and the 10 Principles of the UN the appropriate EU recycling symbols or labels.
Information has also Ethics and Values Global Compact of which it is a signatory.
been included in product handbooks about the materials the products Rotork is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 contain and any specific advice about disposal.
Universal Principles around human rights, labour, environment, Environment bribery and corruption.
These Principles are derived from the The Group Environmental policy includes commitments to the Examples of how Rotork products have a direct and positive impact Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which the Company supports prevention of pollution, compliance with all relevant legal and other on the environment can be seen in the Report.
and the International Labour Organisations Declaration of regulatory requirements and to the continuous improvement of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
Rotork supports all environmental performance.
The Environmental policy applies to all Environmental Management System United Nations efforts to ensure the effective abolition of child forced manufacturing sites in the Group worldwide.
The complete policy A major milestone was reached in the development of the compulsory labour and will never use any such labour in any of its may be found at www.
environment management system when the main Bath site achieved operations worldwide.
At Rotork the rights of every employee are independent verification of compliance with ISO 14001:2004.
The Company acts in ways that ensure all employees are The Groups 2006 Environmental Report the Report can be result of complying with this standard waste sent to landfill from treated with openness, mutual trust, dignity and respect.
Everyone accessed in full at www.
This reduction was achieved by working at Rotork will be treated fairly and without discrimination on Partnership Envolve were engaged to provide an independent minimising waste generation and by increased recycling especially of the basis of race, gender, language or religion.
assessment of the Report and this assessment is included within it.
A project was also launched to improve the For the first time environmental performance data is included within Groups reporting of environmental performance data.
This project is Rotorks Ethics and Values Statement can be accessed at Rotorks the Report from all Rotorks major sales, warehouse and service well advanced and the number of subsidiaries reporting their website www.
com under the Investors section, sub-section facilities around the world in addition to manufacturing sites.
The environmental data had increased from 10 to 29 when it was Responsibilities and Ethics.
Additionally at that part of the website Report also includes qualitative information about environmental independently audited by Envolve for sustainability.
Rotork will, can be accessed the Rotork Doing the Right Thing document which improvement programmes, achievements and initiatives.
through its Environmental Management System: describes some of the benefits Rotork provides for employees and the wider community.
The Group has identified its key negative environmental impacts to Allocate formal environmental responsibilities to ensure include the use of energy, water and the packaging and disposal of compliance with legislation: Suppliers Support a culture of consultation with employees, key Business integrity and fair dealing is key to the Groups relationships stakeholders and other interested parties: with suppliers and contractors.
Many of the Groups suppliers have Provide environmental information, guidance and, where long-term relationships with the Group.
Most key suppliers are CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 27. registered to ISO 9000.
Supplier development is ongoing and involves events.
There is also direct engagement in community issues for Other charitable organisations to benefit from Rotorks Charity elements developed in the motor industry of the QS 9000 system.
example, providing transport for charitable events in the area.
In Bath Committee during the year included: a representative of the Company sits on a local group supporting Employees local initiatives for cultural, social and economic development.
Royal United Hospital RUH Bath Forever Friends Employees in the UK and many overseas subsidiary companies enjoy Bath Open Christmas participation in long-standing Rotork profit sharing and share Individual employees or groups of employees also engage in community Medical Assessment Unit RUH schemes.
activities and the Charity Committee normally matches monies raised Charter Trustees of the City of Bath by employees who undertake appropriate charitable events personally.
Foundation for East African Development At the Bath plant, an Employee Committee sits regularly to discuss staff During the year the Charity Committee paid the entry fee for employees The Big Heart Ride issues and suggests improvements in working conditions and practices.
participating in the Bath half marathon and matched sponsorship sums Bath Charities Annual Fayre All issues are reviewed by directors and acted on as appropriate.
raised by employees for their selected charities.
Bath Institute of Medical Engineering Weston Day Club for the Elderly An Equal Opportunities policy is applied throughout the Group and in The Charity Committee has agreed to a grant of 35,000 to the Bath & Wansdyke Society for the Blind almost all cases, it is nationals from those countries in which the Research Institute for the Care of the Elderly to provide a Rotork Friends of Peasedown St. John Primary School Company operates who manage those companies locally.
room in a new research facility to be built at the Royal United Drugs & Homeless Initiative Hospital in Bath.
Half of the award has been paid in 2006 as the Bath Cats & Dogs Home Financial support for training and learning programmes directly project progresses.
The room will be one of four examination rooms Childrens Hospice South West related to employees working roles are provided.
There are two that will be used on a daily basis for the Institutes research projects Race for Life full time training officers at the Bath site who co-ordinate product and memory clinics.
The memory clinics provide a much valued Little Sisters of the Poor training initiatives for employees and customers.
Four year service to people in the Bath area.
Like Rotork, the Institute is Julian House, Bath apprenticeship programmes underline the commitment to staff committed to research as a means of progress in finding solutions to Princes Trust development for the long-term.
With the ageing of the population, research to Samaritans of Bath improve the care of older people is of growing importance and Rotork Youth Action Wiltshire Health and Safety is pleased to be involved with this initiative.
Bath Junior Gateway The Group has Health and Safety policies in place.
The Group is Heartline Association working towards a global Health and Safety policy compliant with The Charity Committee also awarded during the year 5,000 to Muscular Dystrophy Campaign Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSAS for the Dorothy House, a hospice in Bath.
Whilst the Committee regularly Breast Cancer Campaign benefit of employees and those they interact with worldwide.
supports this charity, this particular sum was paid to assist in Focus Counselling funding an education wing.
Separately the Committee also during Royal Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases Community involvement the year matched funds raised by a group of employees taking part MENCAP Rotork considers it important to contribute and engage positively in on a sponsored cycle ride on behalf of this charity.
Percy Community Centre the communities in which it operates and particularly where it has Willows Counselling Service substantial sites with relatively large numbers of employees, for MacMillan Cancer Relief example its Bath site.
Rotorks objectives include being a good Jeans for Genes community neighbour as well as a responsible corporate entity.
Childrens Heart Foundation British Heart Foundation For many years Rotork has pursued a policy of community Barnardos involvement through financial support and fostering partnership with local charitable and voluntary organisations, trusts and local support Organisations who received matched funds from the Charity groups.
A Charity Committee made up of employees at all levels Committee following fund raising by employees.
considers local community charitable and similar requests at the Bath site.
Projects are then followed through with visits and reports by employees and feedback to the Charity Committee.
Sponsorship is also given to local youth and sporting clubs and to cultural and social
