13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 18 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability The Board arranges the affairs of the Group to applicable laws, rules made by any official or ensure RPS operates in a social and responsible regulatory body and Group policies.
The Group manner and implements policies and procedures respects the rights and interests of all its employees.
The responsibility for ensuring compliance The Group requires its entire staff to adopt high with these policies and procedures is delegated to the standards of behaviour when travelling on business Boards Executive Directors and in turn to the whether within their country of operation or Divisional Boards and Divisional Directors.
The Group Companies and employees are responsibility for complying with Group policies is required to be sympathetic to the cultures of and to devolved down to all employees.
comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate.
The Board keeps the management of the Group under continuous review and is able to amend Clients management policies or operations at any time.
The Group aims to understand its clients objectives Individual parts of the Group are permitted, in in order to be as effective as possible in helping them certain circumstances, to develop more detailed achieve those objectives.
The Group aims to develop policies suited to their own specific activities.
The and maintain strong and lasting relationships with its Group Board requires to be informed of such policies.
Quality reports and services are delivered on time which meet our clients requirements and the Our core business is consultancy, technical Group works with the client to anticipate and meet support services and technology assessment their future needs.
Through these routes we assist clients to develop environmentally, ecologically and Conflicts of Interest socially sustainable policies, management strategies, All RPS employees are required to avoid personal and systems for sustainable development.
We activities and financial interests, which could conflict recognise that, while our consultancy work has with their responsibilities to the Company.
Where positive outcomes, its conduct consumes resources conflicts of interest arise, they should be openly which have some adverse, if limited, impacts on the acknowledged and reported.
not seek personal gain from third parties nor should Social Policy they abuse their power within the Company for personal gain.
The RPS Board is committed to ensuring the Group undertakes its business in a responsible way.
Taking Community Involvement care of our clients, suppliers, employees, the wider RPS has supported community and charitable fund community and environment, the health and safety of raising with gifts in kind and financial contributions our employees and conducting operations with a high throughout the year, mostly at local office level.
The standard of business integrity are in our opinion Company and staff raised 210,420 in charitable essential to the success of our business.
Taking into account the The Group has specific policies on the following: 105,095 spent on academic bursaries and educational initiatives not connected to staff training, the Groups Standard of Conduct total contribution to the communities in which it RPS expects all its staff to conduct business to the operates was 315,515 0.011% of total revenue.
It is essential that the reputation of the Group is upheld at all times with regulatory In the UK, the largest single beneficiary was bodies, governments, customers, suppliers and all TreeAid which received 3,625 raised through 15p other parties with whom the Group has dealings.
All donations on sales of the Company Christmas card employees, agents and other persons acting on its printed cards 17,795 & e-cards 6,568.
3,500 was behalf represent the Group during their normal dayraised by staff in our Newark office who took part in to-day activities and are, therefore, expected to the London to Paris Bike Ride to raise money for the conduct their duties at all times in a professional Action Medical Research Saving Tiny Lives Campaign.
manner, maintaining rigorous standards of integrity, Donations totalling 3,000 each were made to honesty and conduct, together with adherence to all WaterAid and to Breast Cancer Awareness.
18 Operating & Financial Review 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 19 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 In Ireland the Companys contributions to the requirements such as those specified by regulators and our clients: wider community were widely spread.
These included Cancer Care Ireland, The Samaritans, Habitats for nn utilises suppliers that offer products which are Humanity, the National Council for the Blind, Concern, sustainable, recyclable or environmentally sensitive Barnardos, the Royal Society for the Protection of wherever practicable and economic: Birds, the RNLI and the Temple Street Childrens nn promotes practical energy efficiency and waste Hospital.
RPS also donated its services and provided minimisation measures: and funding for non-profit making bodies such as nn provides a shared inter-office IT networks and Engineers Ireland and the BITCI schools partnership.
communications technology which reduces the need for business travel.
In Australia, RPS donated A$34,000 the same In order to achieve this RPS will: amount as in 2005 towards the Gondwana Link project, which seeks to protect, restore and sustain nn ensure employees are trained and motivated to the natural heritage in the Great Southern Region of conduct their activities in an environmentally Western Australia.
responsible manner: nn review the policy on a regular basis to take into Environmental Management account any new developments in legislation, or Our expertise includes the full range of environmental environmental management or shareholder consultancy disciplines, covering areas such as risk expectations: and management, health and safety, town and country nn allocate sufficient management resources to planning, urban and landscape design, architecture, ensure effective implementation of the transport planning, environmental impact assessment, environmental policies.
environmental monitoring and management, civil and structural engineering and utilities asset management.
Transport and Vehicle Management We advise international bodies, governments, local RPS uses environmental criteria when selecting and authorities and private companies on improving their managing its car fleet.
RPS Water, which leases environmental performance.
As a result of these approximately 422 vans, operates a fleet policy on activities RPS believes it has a positive impact on the using vans on 1.3L and 1.7L low CO emitting 2 environment.
The Group has no manufacturing base diesel engines.
and therefore produces no major polluting emissions Several offices have employed in-house that affect the environment.
One of the Groups larger resources to conduct travel surveys, which promote shareholders, after reviewing the Group, confirmed alternative, more sustainable, means of getting to that they fully recognised that RPS does not have a work, whilst some of our Irish offices have carried out substantial direct environmental impact.
transport surveys and use tax incentives for staff RPS concentrates on implementing practical who use public transport.
measures to improve its environmental performance.
All leased vehicles across the Group are regularly Those activities that are managed at Group level, serviced and in general have mileage levels under such as our fleet car leasing, office leasing and IT 80,000 miles to ensure greater fuel efficiency and and stationery purchasing are driven through our cleaner emissions.
During the latter part of 2006 A Health & Safety objective is to minimise the RPS moved the majority of its UK electricity supply number of vehicle related accidents: this is achieved to a green supplier.
through a system of road accident analysis, Using these management techniques, RPS information, procedures and an assessment endeavours to ensure that it: of training where necessary.
nn complies with all relevant EC, national and The Group Board has responsibility regional legislation as a minimum standard: for the implementation of all policies.
nn complies with codes of practice and other Oper Operating & Financial Review ating & Financial Review 19 19 13320 DRAFT 19 15 03 07 15 3 07 15:59 Page 20 RPS Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability continued 2006 2005 Year  Petrol LPGTotal Average Fleet size 719 57 16 792 636 70 3 709 Average CO emissions g km 150 177 148 158 149 176 169 152 2 Average engine size litres 1.7 1.8 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.8 1.7 CO data is not available for 422 vans 2005: 430 vans.
2 Shareholders The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet frequently with major institutional shareholders The Group conducts its operations in accordance and fund managers.
The Chairmen of the Audit with what it believes are principles of good corporate Committee, Remuneration Committee and governance.
Its aim is to provide shareholders with Nomination Committee attend the Annual General a return on investment that rewards their financial Meeting, and are available to answer shareholders commitment.
The Board understands the importance questions.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent of strong cash flows and earnings and develops its Non-Executive Director are available to discuss business in such a way as to grow these in a governance, strategy and any issues of concern or sustainable way as far as possible.
The Board interest with any major shareholders.
endeavours to maintain involvement of shareholders by keeping them informed on major actions or They both attend the Annual General Meeting.
decisions affecting their investment, through a yearThere is a standing board agenda item on investor round Investor Relations programme.
RPS employees relations and the views of shareholders in so far as in possession of information which, if disclosed, could they are known are disclosed to the Board as a affect the market price of its shares are prohibited whole.
This gives the Board an opportunity to from trading in securities until after public disclosure develop an understanding of the views of major of such information.
