Sustainable development review Our Alcohol Manifesto and Code of Commercial Communication introduced two Sustainable years ago are being systematically adopted and embedded across the organisation development review and we also have a system to monitor compliance.
Internal training continues in all operations to ensure awareness of our responsibilities to retailers, taverners and also to consumers.
Key achievements As an example of one of our Strategic review of our corporate accountability approach and a re-appraisal of programmes, in South Africa we launched the key issues impacting our business and our stakeholders.
Defining a new the Draw the Line campaign which strategic framework focusing on 10 sustainable development priorities.
focused on several aspects of responsible Continuing to make a positive contribution to the ongoing discussions on how most drinking, including not drinking when effectively to address irresponsible drinking on a global, regional and local basis.
underage, during pregnancy or while driving.
This significant campaign is the Reducing costs of water, energy, waste and packaging with the associated lower latest step in addressing alcohol-related impact on the environment.
Building on initiatives to reduce the impact of HIV Aids on our employees and In Poland we worked with relevant their families, particularly in Africa, but extending to other markets.
This work will government authorities, retailers and reduce business risk and costs.
taverners to launch a campaign to prevent underage drinking.
A marketing awareness Investing in the health and education of our communities and fostering campaign including a carrot and stick entrepreneurship to contribute towards a more successful future.
approach of awarding responsible shop assistant certificates and yellow warning cards respectively, achieved its goals of Overview Strategic review reducing sales to underage people.
In post Our ability to be successful and profitable The 10 sustainable development priorities campaign research, 75% of the stores is inextricably linked with the health and identified by the strategic review of our which worked closely on the project did not prosperity of the communities in which we approach to corporate accountability are: sell alcohol to minors and neither did 91% operate.
When economic and development The need to: of stores which were awarded certificates.
indicators improve, communities and discourage irresponsible drinking Although further work is required, those businesses get wealthier.
In this situation, make more beer but using less water surveyed believed that the campaign businesses can think and act in the long reduce our energy and carbon footprint was a valuable initiative which reinforced term and have more to invest in their have a vibrant packaging reuse and the prohibition of selling alcohol to businesses and communities, employment recycling economy underage people.
grows and a virtuous circle is created.
work towards zero waste operations This is why we aim to make a long-term have supply chains that reflect our own Making more beer but using less water and sustainable impact on poverty through values and commitment to sustainable Given the prevalence of water shortages our business activities.
We create jobs, we development and droughts around the world and our create markets for entrepreneurs and we have respect for human rights dependence on this precious natural transfer skills to our employees and those bring benefit to the communities resource, reducing the use of water is in our value chain.
we serve one of our main environmental priorities.
We submit evidence on our sustainable contribute to the reduction of HIV Aids According to United Nations data, around development progress to organisations within our sphere of influence 52% of our current production volume is such as the JSE Limited SRI Index and be transparent in reporting our progress likely to originate from plants operating in the UKs Business in the Community on these environmental and social countries that have some nature of water Environment Index.
We passed on all four sustainable development priorities vulnerability and this is expected to increase.
categories governance, social, environment We have reduced our average group and ethics in the JSE SRI Index and have For each priority, we have formalised a water consumption from 4.75 hectolitres been assigned an overall score of 78.74% position statement for the group.
We are of water per hectolitre of beer last year to by Business in the Community, a significant finalising a process whereby each operation 4.61 hectolitres, against an industry average improvement over the 59.57% score of the can measure its progress against each of 5.0 hectolitres UNEP Environmental previous year.
priority, recognising that we require certain Management in the Brewing Industry.
minimum standards across the group as well As well as reducing the use of water, as allowing flexibility for local market needs.
two other areas of focus are engaging with The context of the review of our suppliers to better understand our extended sustainable development strategy and water footprint and considering the needs more information on the 10 sustainable of the communities where we operate.
development priorities, including further To reduce the use of water, two examples of our programmes, can be found operations in Poland and South Africa, for at www.
com, as part of the 2006 example, are using a new system which Sustainable Development Report.
recycles water to wash crates.
In Poland, water is recycled from the bottle rinsing Discouraging irresponsible drinking process and has saved both water and We continue to both discourage electricity costs.
In South Africa, water irresponsible drinking and contribute to the previously used to sterilise beer filters is alcohol debate along with other industry recycled.
This has reduced effluent costs bodies and non-governmental organisations.
as well as water consumption.
32 As an example of working with the Working towards zero waste operations Respecting human rights community, we upgraded our wastewater Hand in hand with reuse and recycling The challenge for any global operation is treatment plant in Velke Popovice in the is reducing operational waste, other than acknowledging and respecting the diverse Czech Republic which supplies the town packaging waste.
Waste disposal costs are national cultures, differences in, and as well as the brewery.
This upgrade also increasing and laws are becoming stricter interpretation of, laws whilst also respecting resulted in using 70% less energy, reducing and better enforced.
the values of the international community sludge by 60% and fewer emissions.
For SABMiller, the majority of wastes such as the Universal Declaration of produced in breweries are recyclable or Human Rights.
Reducing our energy and carbon footprint reusable to some extent.
We aim to create Given this, it is our responsibility to Most environmental experts agree that a low or even zero waste culture across the demonstrate a commitment to upholding energy usage and climate change, and business.
Miller, for example, has reduced human rights principles including therefore water shortages, are inextricably the amount of waste sent to landfill by encouraging diversity in relation to linked.
Governments are increasingly using 40% through training employees, removing our employees, our suppliers and the taxes and emission caps to discourage the recyclables from the waste stream, communities where we operate.
We are use of carbon-based fuels.
Consequently improving equipment maintenance and taking a formal approach to ensure all we need to continually search for ways other initiatives.
our operations understand our policies to efficiently reduce our use of energy and As with other examples of our and practices which will be tackled generation of carbon-based emissions for programmes around the world, in South appropriately in different countries.
As a both commercial and environmental benefits.
Africa spent yeast is sold to the first step we will liaise with our managers As well as measuring direct and indirect manufacturers of health foods and savoury in Africa and Asia to more fully understand emissions, operations assess plant energy spreads, whilst the spent grain is sold to what issues exist in each country, how efficiency last year the average amount of farmers as animal feed.
In the Czech they are managed locally and whether energy used equated to 160mj hl, Republic, we have a separation system for gaps exist and if they do, how they should renewable energy and carbon management, waste labels which are delivered to cement be addressed.
and undertake carbon footprinting research.
factories to be used as an alternative fuel.
As an example of our efforts on the In Tanzania and Mozambique, for At Millers Milwaukee brewery, bulk glass ground, in Honduras we have developed an example, breweries are introducing a new bottle truck shipments use air bags to education programme, including training in heat recovery system on their wort kettle to prevent breakage and the one-way bags alternative crop production, at our Anunosa recover energy which is used to pre-heat weighing 5 lbs had previously gone to plant to eliminate the employment of the wort of the next brew.
However, by working with the children in sugar cane fields.
we reduced the electricity we used in the supplier they were converted to reusable Ibhayi brewery and Perseverance depot by bags which reduced supplier costs and Benefiting communities 10%.
As part of the internal awareness avoided 17 tonnes of landfill waste per year.
Operating in some 60 countries across five campaign of these operations, employees continents, we have a responsibility to be an were able to swap up to five incandescent Working with supply chains active employer in our communities around bulbs for five energy saving bulbs for use Our businesses spend over US$5,700 million the world.
Each of these communities at home.
with suppliers around the world and support provides our staff, suppliers and customers an estimated 1.6 million jobs in the supply and therefore it is in our interest to ensure Packaging reuse and recycling chain, retail and distribution networks.
In that these communities are economically Social and commercial pressures encourage addition to commercial factors, responsible and socially sound.
businesses to contribute to packaging procurement is an increasingly important Three group themes sustainable reuse and recycling to reduce volumes of issue and we need to demonstrate an enterprise and entrepreneurship, packaging which ends up in landfill sites understanding of, and commitment to, sustainable water resources and HIV Aids or as litter in urban and rural areas.
basic human rights and positive social, complement local initiatives which are We encourage all our companies to environmental and ethical behaviour within relevant to local markets.
use the most environmentally suitable our supply chain.
During the year ended 31 March 2006 packaging available in their countries.
As an example of working with farming we invested over US$19 million 0.8% of The businesses are assessing the potential communities, last year we launched a profit before tax in community programmes.
of light weighting of bottles and cans, Working in Partnership initiative in India, These range from supporting young increasing recycled content of packaging aimed at developing a high quality barley entrepreneurs to funding educational substrates and improving post-consumer industry.
This initiative used a co-operative programmes.
They are also being farming model to unlock the potential For example, the Miller REACH encouraged to reduce and eventually benefits of economies of scale.
The scheme programme focuses on five key areas: eliminate the use of heavy metals.
is expected to become self funding after responsibility, employment, Aids and HIV, As examples of their programmes, year three and it is anticipated that both the cultural diversity and heritage initiatives.
continual technological innovations at Miller farmer and SABMiller gross margin will be In the Czech Republic, the Citizens have reduced the weight of cans by 45%, a improved by better yields, better pricing and Choice programme provides grants to nonglass recycling initiative in South Africa has lower supply chain costs.
governmental organisations and regional set up 16 collection points where villagers Local sourcing benefits local farming institutions focusing on education, health and taverners can exchange empty bottles communities and can also be more cost and social welfare, environment and culture.
for cash and Zambias recycling requirements effective for us.
We have recently moved In the last four years the programme has have resulted in the setting up of an the sourcing of 200 tonnes of hops from granted nearly US$1 million and has independent plastic recycling business, Europe to George in South Africa and our supported more than 100 projects.
businesses in Mozambique and Tanzania In India a primary healthcare project have shifted from imports to locally has focused on education in sanitation sourced sugar.
and preventative healthcare to the villages neighbouring our largest brewery.
33 Sustainable development review In partnership with public health centres, the As well as social, environmental and Diversity project has included training health workers ethical matters, transparency is also applied To get the best from our people and the and forming community based organisations to product quality, consumer satisfaction environment in which we operate, we seek to enable them to manage aspects of the and competition concerns.
to value and respect their diversity.
the group, 21% of our employees are An employer of choice women, including 25% in management Contributing to the reduction of HIV Aids SABMiller aspires to be an employer of positions 2005: 19% and 22% respectively.
HIV Aids is a challenge for our businesses choice.
The calibre and commitment of our In South Africa, due to the nature of our in Africa with an impact on skills, health and people sets us apart, and it is through our environment, our business continues to take well-being of our employees and customers, people that we can achieve our vision to be action to meet targets required to ensure and on the perception of our business in the most admired company in the global representation at all levels, and occupational local communities.
During 2005 we revised and categories: overall, the proportion of Asian, The extent of the HIV Aids pandemic restated our vision, mission and values for Black and Coloured representation in the and related socioeconomic consequences the whole organisation.
Entitled Working total South African workforce remained in some countries, requires us to manage Together, this was cascaded to employees broadly static at 73.5% 2005: 72.6%, while this as an operational and reputation priority.
around the world through workshops, the proportion among senior executives Our key areas of focus have been to briefings and communication materials.
manage existing infections through voluntary During the last year, we employed a counselling and testing and managed total of 53,772 people 2005: 40,892 Labour standards healthcare, which includes free anti across the countries where we have SABMiller upholds the expectations of the retro-viral treatment where necessary for operations.
Total remuneration amounted to Universal Declaration of Human Rights and employees and their direct dependents.
we believe our employment practices also We also aim to prevent new infections A detailed account of our commitment to conform to the core labour standards of the through education programmes which employees is provided in a supplement to International Labour Organisation.
Each include influencing behaviour and attitudes.
our annual sustainable development report, operating company provides an annual Our goal is to eradicate the stigma available on www.
declaration that, having checked, its which surrounds HIV Aids and create an operations are in compliance with labour environment where employees feel safe to Health and safety laws and regulations in its local jurisdictions.
disclose an HIV positive status.
Testament The health and safety of our workforce is of to the effectiveness of the Confronting fundamental concern.
We seek to ensure The future Prejudice and Stigma Campaign is the that working conditions are as safe as Following our review and the identification increasing number of employees who are possible and we monitor accident rates of our 10 sustainable development priorities, willing to share their HIV Aids status with worldwide.
Last year overall safety rates we will aim to build on the progress we their colleagues, confident that they will improved and efforts to enhance further have already made this year.
We will be be supported rather than shunned.
performance centred on operations with completing the consultation process within In our efforts to extend our impact below average performance.
Most regrettably and outside of the company and we will be through our sphere of influence into the during the year two employees, one in working with all our operations to help them supply chain, we have included HIV Aids Slovakia and one in South Africa, lost their ascertain how they measure against each of education into the business skills training lives while at work 2005: zero.
the priorities and their goals, dependent on for our contract drivers in South Africa.
the relevance of the priorities in their country.
Our intention is to roll this programme out Training By the end of the year, we plan to have in other countries in Africa during 2006.
Continued investment in the capabilities of a structured overview of the business which Both Zambia and Uganda have initiated our people is vital for improved business will inform us where we are on the priorities partnerships with local non-governmental performance.
Last year investment in training and what we need to do to plug any gaps.
organisations to provide voluntary averaged 4.4 days per employee across our We will also be able to define where we can counselling and testing VCT, as well as operating companies 2005: 3.8 days.
treatment where necessary, in communities We will also embed our framework adjacent to the plants.
within our new South American businesses which have become a part of the group Transparency in our reporting following the merger with Bavaria.
Because companies are coming under For further information refer to our increasing scrutiny regarding their social, sustainable development report at environmental and ethical performance, www.
com transparency is one of our sustainable development priorities.
We have recently completed a project with the Corporate Citizenship Company which has helped us identify all the data collection routes for the 10 priorities, including transparency.
At group level, as well as our annual Sustainable Development Report, we will regularly update our website, www.
On a local level, all our operations are encouraged to report their own progress and results.
For example our operations in Poland, the Czech Republic and South Africa have produced their own sustainable development reports this year.
