The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p18 Our operating companies OpCos are Corporate Social encouraged and supported in undertaking Responsibility CSR positive corporate social responsibility activities within a common policy framework INTRODUCTION provided by the Group regarding employment, It is the role and responsibility of the Board marketplace, community and environmental to take into account all aspects of social, matters.
In order to develop our framework environmental and ethical issues in its further and drive an involving and engaged discussions and decision-making.
The Board approach to CSR, we have appointed a team receives reports at each Board meeting from comprising members of all OpCos.
The team Group executives on relevant developments will take the existing framework and develop in these areas.
In order to verify that as a it as appropriate with each OpCo in line with group of companies we are working to these Sages guiding principles.
standards, we require each of our operating companies to report on key indicators on a Our OpCos have adopted the principles of: quarterly basis.
Treating employees fairly and equitably: The Board considers that material risks from Operating ethically and with integrity: social, environmental and ethical issues are Respecting basic human rights: limited.
However, it takes a proactive Seeking to limit our impact on the approach to risk management of these issues.
environment: The Risk Committee, consisting of executive Being a caring member of our management, identifies and considers any communities.
risks to the business of the Group from social, ethical and environmental issues and reports We currently do not set specific CSR targets on any such risks to the Audit Committee of for our OpCos, but it is a matter that the Board the Board.
Should any risks be identified, the continues to monitor.
At present the Board Risk Committee monitors the steps being does not consider it appropriate to link the taken by operating companies to reduce management of social, environmental and such risks.
The induction programme for new ethical issues to remuneration incentives, given Board directors explains the procedures for the difficulties in objectively measuring risk identification, assessment and management management and performance in this area.
of risk, including those arising from social, environmental and ethical issues.
Through EMPLOYMENT both the quarterly reporting cycle and the We strive to ensure our people are proud to reviews undertaken by the Risk Committee, work for our Group.
We encourage and foster the Board has in place an effective system a culture of innovation, entrepreneurship and to manage risks in this area.
team spirit within a supportive environment.
Sage now employs over 13,000 people and As part of our on-going commitment to we continue to recruit and retain only the best improving and maintaining good practices talent.
It is our goal to bring out the best in across the Group, the Board continues to our people and it is our policy to pursue ensure that an executive has specific practices that are sensitive to their needs.
Karen Geary, Director of Human Resources and Corporate Communications, continues to have responsibility for matters relating to CSR.
The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p19 Operating and Financial Review continued Our priorities are: Our OpCos have introduced local initiatives 01 Operating and Financial Highlights in their regions, including: 03 Chairmans Introduction Ensuring equality of opportunity, fostering 07 Overview of our Business diversity and providing a safe workplace: Employee involvement programmes 11 Long-term Strategy and Business Objectives Encouraging our people to reach their in our larger regions: 13 Key Performance Indicators full potential through training, career Employee award programmes to 14 Results for 2006 development and promotion from within recognise extra effort and high Financial Year the Group, where possible: performance in many OpCos: 16 Future Outlook 16 Risks and Uncertainties Communicating openly and transparently New performance management 17 Resources with our people and taking into account frameworks in the UK and North America: 18 Corporate Social their feedback: Intranets to improve employee Responsibility 21 Financial Review Recognising and rewarding our people communication and involvement in the for their contribution and encouraging UK and Mainland Europe: share ownership at all levels.
Social events in all regions to promote and embed our corporate principles: We have an equal opportunities policy Health awareness programmes in the that applies across the Group prohibiting UK, Mainland Europe and South Africa: discrimination on grounds of race, gender, English language lessons in Mainland religion, sexual orientation or disability.
Europe: We operate in a number of geographic Employee involvement in CSR activities regions, adhering to all relevant laws that in the UK and Mainland Europe.
apply and support internationally accepted standards on human rights.
Our policy OUR MARKETPLACE includes, where practical, the continued It is our aim to be a trusted advisor to our employment of those who may become customers, a respected and admired company disabled during their employment.
Our in our industry and a leader in encouraging policies ensure that all decisions about the the growth and development of SMEs through appointment, treatment and promotion of the effective use of information technology.
employees are based entirely on merit.
We actively promote the use of the internet in business, particularly in the area of government Key activities in 2006: submissions.
Our awareness of the importance of prompt payment to small businesses is Across the Group as a whole we have demonstrated by our commitment to pay enhanced our people policies and activities, customers and suppliers on fair terms.
introducing some of the following initiatives: All of our OpCos focus on customer Group-wide policy statement relating to satisfaction by: bribery and corruption that applies to all employees and is published on our global Monitoring customer advocacy and intranet site: recommendation: Group-wide policy relating to Health and Undertaking loyalty surveys: Safety published on our global intranet site: Responding to customer support phone Methodology introduced for measuring key calls, handling on average 30,000 calls people drivers for success: per day in total: Establishment of a talent database to drive Holding customer awareness events and structured succession planning: discussion groups to enable customers Group-wide communication of our and Sage employees to meet face to face: corporate principles of Simplicity, Agility, Surveying SMEs to understand their Innovation, Integrity and Trust: business issues: Enhancement of our internal Releasing publications discussing current communications framework in order to business issues.
help our people connect more closely with our collective vision and purpose.
The success of our customer satisfaction policies is evidenced by the numerous industry awards won by our OpCos: The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 p20 The UK won two awards for Best ENVIRONMENT Community Spirit at the industrys It is our policy to ensure that our operations annual World Contact Centre Awards and have as little environmental impact as is European Contact Centre of the Year consistent with our business needs.
We work at the European Contact Centre Awards: to promote environmental care, to increase North America won the K2 Enterprise our understanding of environmental issues 2006 Quality Award for Technical Support: and to spread environmental best practice Sage CRM Solutions North America was throughout our businesses.
As a software named Product of the Year 2006: publisher and services provider, our business North America won the 2006 Rebrand activities have minimal environmental impact: Award in the Rebrand 100 Global Awards: however, we encourage all our OpCos to North America won Call Centre Award pursue environmental best practice.
We make for The Americas sponsored by maximum use of internet and .
com: based tools to manage international meetings Ireland won Customer Service Team in order to minimise air travel where possible of the Year at the Customer Service and many of our OpCos have introduced Awards for Ireland.
policies and incentives to reduce car use.
COMMUNITY This year we have strengthened our It is our policy to be an integral part of the environmental activity with continued focus communities in which we are based.
We are on waste reduction, energy minimisation and committed to developing relationships with reduced packaging as we continue to work those communities, where appropriate, to minimise any negative impact on the through voluntary activities and donations.
We will continue to work on Close relationships have been fostered with this area in the coming years.
many communities through local initiatives and numerous donations have been made to Major initiatives from our OpCos include: local, national and international charities and community foundations.
Recycling facilities in all office locations: Recycled water used for landscaping In total this year we donated 200,100 to in many office locations across North various charities.
America and Mainland Europe: Campaigns to minimise production Sage Day 2006 once again acted as a focus of manuals, printed materials and for our community activity.
The theme was packaging associated with product Connecting with Our Community and every local sales across all regions: office was encouraged to partner with another Increasing use of the internet for Sage office in a different country and organise distribution of printed materials: activities to learn about each other while raising Campaigns to minimise power use funds for a local cause selected by employees.
in the UK and Mainland Europe: Measurement of the carbon footprint The Group also became a member of in the UK: The Princes Trust, making a donation to a The Groups annual report is now only fund for young people from disadvantaged mailed in hard copy if requested by the backgrounds who wish to start up in business.
shareholder rather than the shorter Summary Financial Statements and users Each of our OpCos work within the community are encouraged to view our full report via in ways that are meaningful to them and their the website.
Employees are encouraged to become more closely involved in the local community through a wide range of sponsorship, donations and partnerships with schools, hospitals, orphanages and charities.
Many OpCos are actively involved in their business communities with partnerships and award programmes to encourage idea generation, business start-ups and excellence in business practice.
