Corporate Responsibility is integral to the way we We use the power of our brands to run specific Operating manage and operate our business.
We believe we campaigns educating consumers around the dangers have made great progress over the last few years, of irresponsible drinking.
For example, in France, Review particularly in 2006.
We have introduced many following a hard-hitting drink-driving campaign, Corporate ground-breaking projects and have more in the Brasseries Kronenbourg has updated their responsible pipeline for 2007. drinking policy, Ligne fide conduite alcool.
Responsibility In the last year we have: In 2006 we were one of the founding members Made important progress in the areas of of the Drinkaware Trust, an industry funded body that environment and supply chain, reducing CO works to reduce alcohol misuse and alcohol-related 2 emissions, water use and waste whilst harm.
John Dunsmore, Managing Director of S&N UK, developing innovative sustainable sources has recently been appointed to the newly formed of renewable energy.
Board of the Drinkaware Trust.
We support the Continued to work with governments and Drinkaware website on all advertising and packaging, non-governmental organisations to promote which sits alongside alcohol unit labelling and the responsible consumption of our products and governments responsible drinking message.
provide innovative solutions to problem drinking.
All of our marketing activity must conform to our Worked hard to communicate our visions responsible marketing policy.
The policy is an essential and values to all employees and introduced tool in ensuring that all employees and agencies a Company-wide Best Team Behaviours understand the importance of responsible marketing programme.
and responsible use of our products.
Since the launch Improved our Business in the Community in 2005 we have worked to embed the policy across BitC ranking to 56th, moving up 27 places the business.
It can be found in the Corporate in three years.
Responsibility section of our website.
In 2006 there Worked to ensure that community investment was only one complaint in France upheld against is effective and targeted.
We have moved up to the advertising of our products, which for us 23rd on the Guardians Giving List, passing the demonstrates the level of understanding of threshold of giving over 1% of pre-tax profits our policy among employees.
to charitable and community causes.
JOINT VENTURES Our Corporate Responsibility Committee is Our three joint ventures are making increasing comprised of Executive Directors and chaired by the contributions to our revenue.
As a signatory to the Chief Executive.
The Committee oversees CR strategy UN Global Compact, we have publicly committed to and reports to the Companys Executive Management manage our joint ventures responsibly and we report Group and the Board of Directors twice a year.
The on our progress against the criteria in our Corporate Committee works to assess significant risks to the Responsibility Report.
Operating in developing business arising from social, ethical and environmental markets, in companies where we do not have SEE issues and works closely with the Managing overall management control, sets us new challenges.
Directors of the national businesses.
We work with our local partners and stakeholders At a Group and national level our risk to understand our responsibilities and meet the management processes include identification, expectations of those that we work with, as well management and monitoring of SEE risks.
We are mindful of other issues, to apply best practice in our disclosure of SEE risks such as Human Rights and the environment, which and report annually.
will require more active management and monitoring.
Seven key impact areas are identified in our SEE We are working to reduce our environmental impact, risk analysis.
Here follows a summary of developments particularly water and energy use.
We recognise the in 2006 in each area.
value of fresh water to local communities and the UB business in India now has systems on one site to harvest RESPONSIBLE DRINKING rain water which is then used to replenish groundwater We believe it is critical for our business, and the resources.
We are in the process of installing similar communities in which we operate, that we are facilities in two more breweries this year.
always working to tackle irresponsible consumption UB is also working to develop innovative energy of our products and promote responsible drinking.
The installation of two rice husk burners We continue to participate and contribute to the four more are scheduled for 07 and a bio-mass alcohol debate at regional, national and international boiler have saved 2,350 tonnes of oil in 2006 level along with governments, non-governmental a 9% reduction in UBs total oil consumption organisations and industry groups.
This is compared to 2005. complemented by our own work.
As a brand We also recognise the need to have sustainable leader in many of our markets, we believe that supplier relationships and have a contract farming we have a responsibility to lead, and support, initiative in several regions in India, paying small responsible drinking initiatives.
farmers fair value for their crops.
10 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 DEVELOPING A RESPONSIBLE, We have also invested in new effluent treatment Operating HIGH PERFORMANCE CULTURE plants in the UK.
This reduces the level of organic Our aim is to unite and inspire people behind the pollution from our breweries.
It also produces useable Review vision of working together, building the brands that biogas which in turn generates carbon neutral heat Corporate people love to drink.
and electricity for the manufacturing sites.
During 2006 we launched a new behavioural As a result of these types of initiatives, we have Responsibility framework called Best Team Behaviours.
This aims to massively cut our carbon footprint for every pint of continued link S&Ns values into employees everyday working beer we produce.
Since 2000, we have reduced our and develop every individual to their maximum.
total energy consumption per hectolitre of production In 2006 business leaders attended a workshop on by 27.7%: achieving a 13% reduction in 2006 Best Team Behaviours.
In 2007 the workshops will compared to 2005.
In 2006 our total CO emissions 2 be extended to all leaders and will be linked into were 30,000 tonnes less than they were in 2005, -13% our Personal Development Potential PDP process.
Total CO emissions by 2 We have continued to develop group-wide production volume were down a further 10.5%.
Reduction in energy processes and resourcing guidelines to enable Secondly, on water use, we have seen a dramatic consumption by us to recruit and assess talent in a consistent way.
improvement in consumption across the Group.
production volume We have a clear Equal Opportunities policy that Since 2000 improvements in water efficiency have is communicated to all staff and published on our saved over 10 million cubic metres of water.
We will not tolerate discrimination against we used 5.1% less water compared to 2005, despite Total energy consumption any employee or external applicant and we seek a 2% increase in production.
by production kWh hl to make full use of the talents and resources of We have worked to reduce the amount of waste 41.2 our entire workforce.
we produce and to increase the amount of waste we 2003 We are also continuing to promote our recycle.
We now recycle over 94% of the waste that 40.9 2004 confidential whistleblowing process to monitor arises on our brewery sites and are investigating ways 2005 37.6 compliance with our Code of Business Conduct.
to eliminate all waste going to land fill over the next There were no complaints to our Whistleblowing few years.
Our strategy for reducing the amount of packaging We consult with our employees in many different we use have shown real success, for example: ways including the Employee Engagement Survey Our bottles now contain up to 80% recycled and National and European Works Councils, as well content.
Weve cut our glass use by 6%, saving as at site level using team briefings.
more than 20,000 tonnes of glass per year and -10.5% Our 2006 Group Employee Engagement Survey reduced the energy used to produce them by Reduction in CO emissions ran across all countries for the first time and we were up to 50% per bottle.
2 by production volume delighted that brand advocacy scores reached 87%.
In the UK, new packaging lines run cans The Employee Survey is followed by action planning requiring less metal content.
This has saved sessions to ensure we act on the results.
In the UK approximately 1,230 tonnes of aluminium where the survey has been used for three years, we or about 6% compared to that used in 2005. can see an improvement year on year across all areas.
In France, cardboard has been reduced by 9% Total CO2 emissions by beer saving 40 tonnes per year and by increasing the production volume kgCO hl 2 ENVIRONMENT number of bottles per pallet we have reduced 2003 10.4 Beer is a natural product brewed from natural the number of truck kilometres by 150,000km ingredients.
It is therefore essential to our long-term per year.
2004 10.2 survival that we have a sustainable environment 9.5 2005 and agricultural sector.
Over the last few years we SUPPLY CHAIN 8.5 2006 have invested 100m in projects to reduce energy, The issue of corporate responsibility affects not only waste and water usage and are developing exciting our own behaviour and actions but reaches into our and innovative plans for further investment in supply chain.
We are working to support our suppliers renewable energy.
to ensure their business is sustainable and meets high Water and energy usage in particular are ethical and socially responsible standards.
Our policy, fundamental to our business.
and practice, is to pay suppliers in accordance with -5.1% Firstly, on energy use, we have been working the terms and conditions agreed in advance.
Reduction in water use with the UK Carbon Trust to make sure we are better At the year-end the amount owed to trade creditors by production volume equipped to deal with rising energy prices and our by the Company was equivalent to 16 days of purchases environmental obligations.
We have in place a rigorous from suppliers.
energy efficiency programme to reduce both our We have an audit process for assessing new and energy costs and CO2 emissions.
We are developing existing suppliers.
Suppliers are assessed against a Water consumption ground-breaking plans for biomass plants in the UK range of weighted criteria focusing on quality and by production volume hl hl which could provide a minimum 40% reduction in gas environmental issues.
We are continuing to refine demand and a reduction of some 4,000 truck journeys these audits in line with our commitments as a 2003 4.7 per annum.
We are installing micro wind turbines at signatory of the UN Global Compact.
4.8 2004 the Bulmers orchards to provide direct power to the We have implemented an Ethical Procurement 4.5 farm buildings.
Policy, highlighting our vision of ethics in our business.
2005 We have requested our suppliers agree to our Ethical 2006 4.2 Supplier Charter and complete a self assessment process to enable us to evaluate their suitability.
Agriculture is of course a key part of our supply chain and S&N continues to work hard to support this sector.
In addition to the 560,000 trees already managed by 94% Bulmers, we will be investing 1.8m in new orchards during 2008 09 which will lead to the planting of Waste recycled a further 360,000 trees.
On top of this, we have on production sites committed to long-term contracts with suppliers: Bulmers has an additional 1.3 million trees under 10-20 year contracts with growers, giving farmers confidence and a guaranteed return.
Total waste recycled Wherever possible, we make sure that all the malt 49 utilised in the UK is derived from UK grown barley.
2003 2004 67 2005 93 94 2006 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006 11 COMMUNITY We have also shown steady improvement in Operating Following a review of our community activities we have Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility begun to implement our new group-wide community Index, scoring 88.5% in 2005s report, up from 62% Review involvement policy and strategy.
Out of 135 companies that completed the Corporate ensure that our community investment is effective survey, we were placed 56th in 2005, up from 82nd and targeted to support our business objectives and in 2003.
Responsibility deliver real benefits for the Company, the communities Our total community contribution in 2006 continued in which we operate and our employees.
In 2006 we introduced the Helping Hands Community engagement is an integral part of initiative to our UK employees.
The scheme provides the way we manage the business, particularly when match funding when employees raise sponsorship we are planning significant changes.
During 2006, we money for charities, links some team training into announced that we were selling our Champigneulles activities that benefit the local community and Brewery in France.
We consulted with the local provides regional funds for local communities.
community about the changes and ensured that We continue to support and provide funding to a job solution was offered to every employee.
the Bulmers and Kronenbourg Foundations.
2006 saw the 10th anniversary for the Brasseries Kronenbourg LOBBYING AND PUBLIC POLICY DEVELOPMENT Foundation in France.
The Foundation works with We play an active part in a variety of trade bodies socially excluded people to train them and help them and social policy organisations across the countries back into a working life.
Over the last 10 years, and regions where we operate.
We believe there are projects have helped 1,000 people back into work.
clear benefits from ensuring that the Company is We also have strong links with community represented in these organisations and that the organisations that support those who have been industry can speak with a collective voice.
In the past affected by the misuse of alcoholic products.
All our we have tended to focus on industry representation international graduates undertake a project for Turning at national level.
Issues affecting our industry are Point, the UKs leading social care organisation, as increasingly international and we now work with part of their management development programme, industry bodies at both national and international benefiting both our organisations.
level to develop and promote sensible alcohol harm We continue to benchmark our activities against reduction strategies, and to ensure that our views best practice.
In 2006, S&N climbed up the Guardian and those of the industry as a whole are represented newspapers Giving List to 23rd, up from 30th in 2005. in public debate at all appropriate levels.
The Group We also passed the benchmark of giving more than made no political contributions during the year 1% of pre-tax profit to corporate responsibility or in the previous financial period.
projects, up from 0.88% last year.
Weve worked hard to improve our data collection and reporting on this For more information on corporate responsibility issue across the Group and will continue to improve issues, policies and performance, or to download our processes next year.
our full corporate responsibility report, please visit the website at www.
com For more information on S&N corporate responsibility issues, policies and performance please go to www.
com 12 Report of the Directors Scottish & Newcastle plc 2006
