Performance review Review of operations Corporate responsibility Severn Trent Plcs corporate responsibility CR Environment Severn Trent was named programme focuses on delivering environmental Severn Trents greatest environmental impacts are as the utilities sector improvements, and making a positive difference to related to climate change and resource leader in the Dow Jones the social and economic welfare of our communities.
In 2005 06 we continued to drive Sustainability World The programme is steered by Severn Trents forward our responsible management of those Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by the impacts.
Targets for each of these areas are Index for the fifth Group Chief Executive.
A set of detailed policies detailed on our website.
consecutive year and targets defines how the groups CR vision and values are incorporated into our business activities.
The waste and water sectors are significant The vision, values and current targets are set out emitters of greenhouse gases.
The majority of in detail on Severn Trents website.
Severn Trents greenhouse gas emissions, measured as carbon dioxide CO equivalent, arise 2 In 2005 Severn Trent was named as the utilities from methane emissions from landlls, indirect sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability emissions from purchased electricity and emissions World Index for the fifth consecutive year.
Our work to control these includes ranking acknowledges Severn Trents sustainability improving landll gas capture, a comprehensive leadership and our determination to deliver review of energy efficiency within Severn Trent high-quality environmental services in a responsible Water, and the introduction of biodiesel to Biffas manner.
We reduce net emissions by generating renewable energy, and in 2005 06 we The key performance indicators presented in the continued to expand generation capacity.
At the graphs and tables in this CR section have been end of March 2006, installed generating capacity independently veried by Acona as part of our at Biffas sites was 108MW, compared to 101MW CR verication programme.
Severn Trent Water also increased its energy generation capacity, from 27MW at Business ethics March 2005, to 28MW a year later.
Corporate responsibility starts with getting core Group renewable energy generation business standards right.
In this regard we faced increased by 13.6% a significant challenge in 2005 in the form of our own, and Ofwats investigations, into allegations made against Severn Trent Water in 2004 of false 2005 06 691,668 MWh reporting of regulated data.
The investigations 2004 05 608,779 MWh found evidence of a limited number of staff who became aware of wrong behaviour but did not raise Data is for sites under group control.
any concerns, and we accept that this was partly due to weaknesses in Severn Trent Waters system of controls, culture and business ethics at that time.
Severn Trent aims to lead the policy debate on With the arrival of the new management team at climate change in the waste and water industries.
Severn Trent Water in 2004 and 2005, we have In 2005 we published the Carbon Management been strengthening internal processes, controls, Report, describing the results of the carbon ethics and culture.
As a result of a comprehensive management study we undertook with the support review of all Severn Trent Waters business activities of the Carbon Trust.
The study developed a set of we are undertaking a further investigation into projections for our greenhouse gas emissions misreporting of customer relations data to Ofwat.
through to 2020, with the aim of improving our understanding of future emissions trends, and The ongoing change programme within Severn priority areas we need to address.
We face a Trent Water includes promoting a culture based challenge to control emissions in the future due on openness and evaluation of all aspects of to the requirements of environmental legislation performance, bad as well as good, where every such as recycling targets and the Water Framework member of staff practises proper business ethics.
The full Carbon Management Report We have developed a new group policy on ethical appears on our website.
behaviour at work, which includes mechanisms and safeguards for whistle blowing, to support In 2005 06 we subsequently worked on two further the revised Code of Conduct.
studies to improve our control of net emissions, again with the support of the Carbon Trust.
The We will continue our efforts to review and improve first looked at how Severn Trent might explore Severn Trents culture and ethics in 2006 07 and other renewables technologies in order to reduce beyond.
net emissions, and this has fed into our business planning processes.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23 Performance review Review of operations Corporate responsibility continued Key sources of greenhouse gas emissions Proportion of waste recycled or recovered CO equivalent by Biffa was 12.2% in 2005 06 2 Million tonnes CO e Million tonnes 2 10 2.0 8.77 8.05 1.63 8 1.53 1.5 6 1.0 4 Offset by 0.5 0.37 0.36 energy generation 0.12 0.13 group 2 1.13 1.12 0 Methane from Electricity use Transport 0 landll Biffa Severn Trent Biffa -0.26 -0.30 Total waste Waste recycled Water -0.5 Landlled at Biffas sites or recovered by Biffa 2004 2005 2005 2006 2004 2005 2005 2006 The second investigated the potential greenhouse Workplace gas emissions and related energy cost implications As described earlier, we devoted considerable of different technology choices for water and waste management time to workplace ethics in 2005 06, treatment.
In analysing our long term investment working to entrench a culture of openness and choices in the context of greenhouse gas emissions, honesty.
Alongside that, we continued a rigorous we aim to put climate change at the very heart of programme to improve health and safety our business.
Tragically, the importance of health and safety was underlined by Adaptation is the other theme of Severn Trents two fatalities: a Biffa contractor was hit by a Biffa climate change programme.
Severn Trent Water vehicle and a Biffa employee was struck by a car.
took a leading role in Sustainability West Midlands Biffa management has implemented the most Climate Change Partnership, helping the West rigorous investigation and made significant Midlands to understand and adapt to the potential changes to reduce the possibility of such incidents impacts arising from climate change.
completed a series of adaptation workshops in 2005 06, assessing how climate change could Among a wide range of measures implemented affect key areas of the business.
during 2005 06 were: restructuring the businesses health and safety departments to align them Our work on resource management focuses on two more closely with divisional structures: introducing principal elements: reducing our own consumption a health and safety multiplier in directors of natural resources and helping our customers performance bonuses: and launching group-wide manage resources, through activities like recycling.
Reducing leakage is an important part of both our Our strong focus on health and safety in 2004 05 own and our customers management of resources.
and 2005 06 led to a great improvement in our In our corporate responsibility report published performance in 2005 06.
The RIDDOR reportable later this year and following the June Return to incident rate for the group as a whole was Ofwat, we will provide a breakdown of demand and 17.3 per 1,000 employees, a reduction of leakage for Severn Trent Water.
We will also outline 27.6% compared to the previous year.
our work with domestic and industrial customers and our education programme to improve water Severn Trent believes that a diverse workforce is conservation.
important to the success of the company.
We regularly review our working practices to ensure equality of opportunity, and we promote the Biffa handled 1.12 million tonnes of solid waste for importance of good working relations based on recycling and recovery, 12.2% of the total amount fairness, equality and inclusiveness.
We are aware of solid waste directly disposed of.
Developments in that we must do more to improve our diversity 2005 06 included extending commercial glass performance over the coming months.
Our work to collections nationwide, and increasing composting achieve this includes: monitoring diversity proles activities.
across the group: targeted recruitment initiatives: diversity awareness training for staff and managers: Both Severn Trent Water and Biffa continued to and benchmarking our policies and practices expand their Biodiversity Action Plans in 2005 06. against best practice organisations.
24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Performance review Biffas landll tax credit scheme, Biffaward, Health and safety performance Full details of our distributed almost 8.6 million in 2005 06 to over CR programme can be 200 individual projects.
They included, for example, found on our website 27.6% reduction in RIDDOR urban regeneration projects, a project to double www.
com the population of the brown hare, and a grant reportable incident rate for the Roald Dahl Museum and Story Centre.
Per 1,000 employees Education remained a priority of Severn Trents 2005 06 17.3 community activities.
Severn Trent Water continued 2004 05 23.9 the BeSmart initiative, which encourages school children to learn about water and the important role it plays in our lives.
Biffas interactive 2004 05 data is restated.
educational CD on waste won two prestigious communications awards.
Marketplace Most group companies have their own intranets Supply chain assessment has been the object and magazines which form a major communication of increasing public attention in recent years as channel with their employees.
Employee opinion companies seek to understand their responsibilities surveys are used to provide feedback on a range and improve performance within their sphere of issues.
We intensied our focus on supply chain assessment after we expressed support Group companies continue to maintain positive for the UN Global Compact Principles in 2004. relationships with the recognised trade unions and with other elected representatives.
The groups Severn Trent agreed group supply chain meeting of its European Consultative Council assessment objectives and targets in May 2005, is an annual opportunity to promote dialogue and these are published on our website.
Later in with employee representatives and enhance the financial year, we conducted a comprehensive their understanding of the issues facing our review of the different businesses supply chain businesses in Europe.
The review covered five areas of CR concern: environment, human rights, Training is also essential to the continuing success health and safety, bribery and corruption, and of the group.
We are continually expanding our working with minority or small and medium-sized staff development programmes and tools, which enterprises.
include learning resource centres, e-learning, audiovisual materials, and programmes with leading The review was completed in February 2006 and business schools such as Warwick and Aston.
in 2006 07 we will use its findings to build on existing good practice within the group, and to We continued to encourage share ownership identify priority areas for improvement in the in 2005 06, and we offer a number of plans individual businesses.
including a Save As You Earn Scheme, and a Share Incentive Plan.
Severn Trent is sensitive to issues of affordability and the needs of vulnerable customers, especially Community given the price increases scheduled for 2005-10.
We maintained our commitment to community One of the ways in which we provide for those investment and community liaison in 2005 06. customers is a substantial annual grant to the Our community investment programme continued Severn Trent Trust Fund, an independent charity to focus on three main areas: environmental established in 1997 to help customers in genuine education, the built environment, and the natural economic difficulty.
We worked with nine partner charities: WaterAid, Birmingham Cares, Leicester Each year around 8,000 people in Severn Trent Cares, Cromford Venture Centre, Bridlegate, Waters region apply for the Trusts help with Stonebridge City Farm, VSO, Crash-IT, and Ackers.
paying water and other utility bills, and over 70% of those applicants receive financial assistance.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25
