The purpose and values of the business Rights, by respecting the dignity and human rights Associated British Foods plc is an international food, of our employees and in particular as stated below: ingredients and retail group with annual sales of 6bn and 75,000 employees.
Universal respect for an observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without The group is one of Europes largest food companies discrimination as to race, sex, language or religion.
with a wide range of successful brands and products in the food sector, and an increasingly strong presence in We remunerate fairly with respect to skills, advanced research and technology, where we are turning performance, our peers and local conditions.
natural products into innovative ingredients for the food, personal care and pharmaceutical industries.
Communication we will brief employees and their A significant supplier of branded and non-branded grocery representatives on all relevant matters on a regular basis.
products and a leading textile retailer, we have major businesses around the world.
Security the security of our staff and customers is paramount and we will at all times take the necessary Our aim is to concentrate our energies and our expertise steps to minimise risks to their safety.
to achieve strong, sustainable leadership positions in markets that offer potential for profitable growth.
As a Associated British Foods plc encourages an open group, we are also constantly searching for better, more culture in all its dealings between employees and efficient and more profitable ways to manufacture food people with whom it comes in contact.
Effective and and ways to employ our technology in other related sectors.
honest communication is essential if malpractice and wrongdoing are to be effectively dealt with.
The ABF As a responsible corporate citizen, we aim to act in Whistleblowing Procedure sets out guidelines for a socially responsible manner at all times.
The groups individuals who feel they need to raise certain issues organisational structure is highly decentralised and with Associated British Foods plc or their own operating as such our companies devise procedures appropriate company, in confidence.
We will make all efforts to to and compliant with local laws, culture and operating protect the condentiality of those who raise concerns, conditions but within the overall context of minimum and employees may come forward without fear for their overriding principles.
A full copy of the procedure is available on our website www.
co. uk Overriding principles Employees Ethical business practices Our employees are our most crucial resource, and Competition we are committed to free and fair therefore we abide by the following principles: competition and we will compete strongly but honestly complying with all local competition laws.
Equal opportunities we are committed to offering equal opportunities to all people in their recruitment, Bribery we will not condone the offering or receiving training and career development, having regard for of bribes or other such facilitating payments to any their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Full and fair person or entity for the purpose of obtaining or consideration is given to applicants with disabilities retaining business or inuencing political decisions.
and every effort is made to give employees who become disabled whilst employed by the company Political donations financial donations are not an opportunity for retraining.
permitted to political parties within the European Union.
The consent of the Chief Executive is required Health and safety we consider health and safety as for any other donation to a political party.
equal in importance to that of any other function of the company and its business objectives.
The policy and Condentiality and accuracy of information the full global report is available on the company website condentiality of information received in the course at www.
co. uk of business will be respected and never be used for personal gain.
False information will not be given in Harassment we will not tolerate sexual, mental or the course of commercial negotiations.
physical harassment in the workplace.
We expect incidents of harassment to be reported to the Conict of interest any personal interest, which may appropriate human resources director.
prejudice or might reasonably be deemed by others to prejudice, the impartiality of employees, must be Human rights managers must take account of the core formally declared to a senior manager.
Examples of International Labour Organisation labour conventions this include owning shares in business partners and and strive to observe the UN Declaration on Human personal or family involvement in trading contracts.
24 Corporate citizenship Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate citizenship Business gifts and hospitality gifts, other than items of very small intrinsic value, are not accepted.
Employees who receive hospitality must not allow themselves to reach a position whereby they might be deemed by others to have been inuenced in making a business decision as a consequence.
However, giving and receiving reasonable business-related products, marketing materials and entertainment are permitted.
Insider trading employees are prohibited from buying or selling shares or other securities such as bonds, derivatives or spreadbets on the basis of inside information.
Inside information is dened as information that is not available to the public, and includes financial data, plans for mergers, acquisitions or divestitures, changes in dividends, new products or major management changes.
Trading in shares in Associated British Foods plc or any other publicly traded company on the basis of inside information is prohibited, as is the passing on of insider information to anyone who uses it to purchase or sell securities.
Insider trading is illegal and may result in prosecution.
Food safety We recognise and acknowledge that consumer confidence in the quality and safety of our food products is essential.
To this end a high priority is placed on all aspects of food safety.
To manage food safety risks, our sites operate food safety systems which are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain effective, including compliance with all regulatory Green tomatoes requirements for hygiene and food safety.
Our food products are made to high standards regardless of where they are manufactured.
We will always put food safety Cornerways, the fresh produce business of before economic considerations.
British Sugar, is doubling its nursery site to 27 acres.
Environment Associated British Foods plc recognises the impact The business, established in 2000, is based near that its businesses have on the environment.
Therefore, Downham Market in Norfolk and is the UKs largest as a minimum, we will comply with current applicable producer of classic round tomatoes.
Located next legislation of the countries in which we operate.
to the Wissington sugar factory it is able to use waste heat and carbon dioxide produced as part The environmental performance of our businesses will of the sugar manufacturing process.
Improvements be regularly reported to and reviewed by the board.
The in energy efficiency have facilitated this expansion.
policy and full global report is available on the company website www.
co. uk The use of low grade heat and carbon dioxide, which would otherwise be lost to the atmosphere, Stakeholder relationships enables British Sugar to improve the overall cost Customers effectiveness of its Wissington operation as well We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with as reducing its environmental impact.
our customers and above all to provide the standards of product and service that have been agreed whilst at the There will also be a welcome reduction in food miles same time offering value for money.
At all times we take as a consequence since increased production from all reasonable steps to ensure the safety and quality of the site will be used to supply the UK tomato market the goods or services that we produce.
where more than 83% of volume is currently imported.
25 Corporate citizenship Annual Report & Accounts 2006 The power of Primark Green is the new black at Primark after it struck an innovative deal with its UK electricity suppliers.
Under the arrangement the companys entire energy consumption is sourced against the green power generated and sold into the grid by sister company, British Sugar.
This power is generated by low carbon fuel-efficient CHP combined heat and power plants which reduce fossil fuel use by 25%.
Conventional electricity generation so last season!
26 Corporate citizenship Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Shareholders Associated British Foods plc is committed to increasing shareholder value, and we will communicate our achievements and prospects to our shareholders in an accurate and timely manner.
Apart from the annual general meeting the Company communicates with its shareholders by way of the annual report and accounts and the half yearly interim report.
significant matters relating to the trading or development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
The Company also holds meetings with its major institutional shareholders to discuss the Companys operations.
Stockbrokers, Hoare Govett, offer a low cost share dealing service in our shares.
The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, operated by our Registrars.
Suppliers We will carry out our business honestly, ethically and with respect for the rights and interests of our suppliers.
We will settle our bills promptly being a signatory to the Better Payment Practice Code and we will co-operate with suppliers to improve quality and efficiency.
We seek to develop relationships with supplier companies consistent with these basic principles, and specically with respect to human rights and conditions of employment.
Where supplier audits show shortcomings in any of these areas, we will strive to encourage a programme of improvement leading to compliance.
Responsibility for specic supply codes and agreements rests with individual companies.
The wider community We recognise our responsibilities as a member of the Mauri communities in which we operate and encourage our operating companies to engage with the local community in their areas of operation.
Examples of this include chooses cultural and community sponsorship in Australia through George Weston Foods and the community activities of British Sugar through the British Sugar Foundation whose Policy and Guidelines are reproduced in full bio-gas on the British Sugar website.
The Gareld Weston Foundation was set up by the late AB Mauri in Hull is set to reduce its consumption W. Gareld Weston in 1958.
It is one of the UKs foremost of electricity generated by fossil fuel by more than philanthropic organisations and derives a substantial 25%.
It has added to its existing natural gas powered proportion of its funds from its interests in Associated CHP generator a further on-site generator which British Foods plcs ultimate holding company, Wittington burns bio-gas captured during the yeast production Investments Limited.
Further information can be found process.
Not only does Mauri benefit from this highly on www.
org cost-effective, renewable power source but the environment benefits from the reduced emissions.
Applying our principles These business principles apply to all our employees and are a minimum standard for their behaviour: operating companies may have additional standards.
Failure to comply with our principles may result in disciplinary action.
27 Corporate citizenship Annual Report & Accounts 2006
