CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SIG recognises its corporate and social responsibilities to its Shareholders, customers, suppliers and employees and is committed to good practice in all activities.
SIG continues to make significant progress in developing and implementing supply and promote, wherever possible, those products, which contribute its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policies and is pleased to be able to energy conservation and do not damage the environment: and to inform its stakeholders of the measures which it is taking to continue ensure that the Company continues to meet present and future to monitor and improve its CSR performance.
In accordance with the ABI reporting guidelines SIG is able to confirm that To this end the Company has in place an environmental management the Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental system in accordance with BS EN ISO 14001:2004. and ethical matters to the business of the Group and that it has in place a comprehensive risk management and internal control process which identifies ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT and assesses the significant risks to the Companys short and long term value During the year the focus has continued to be on putting in place the procedures arising from such matters.
The Board receives a report on CSR issues and systems for the Group to introduce an Integrated Management System at each of its Board Meetings.
CSR issues form part of the overall internal combining BS EN ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS 18001 Health control process and are covered in the training of Directors.
and Safety in the UK which includes full audits at all locations.
Moody International were appointed Assessors and the assessment process, SIG recognises its corporate social responsibilities to its Shareholders, leading to certification under these accreditation schemes, resulted in customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
April 2006 in all the Groups UK sites receiving certification.
In April 2006 SIG was granted certification uwnder ISO 14001 and OHSAS The Group has identified the significant environmental impact of its operations, 18001.
This certification covers all of the Groups UK mainland sites.
which are summarised below: ENVIRONMENT Energy and transport As a leading international supplier of insulation and related materials our core As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, business is focused on the reduction of energy consumption and the subsequent SIG is active in promoting and encouraging the raising of mandatory reduction in harmful environmental impacts.
The Group Chief Executive, Mr. D. Williams, is the Board Director responsible Reducing energy consumption is a priority for its operations.
This is targeted for the environmental performance of the Group.
Each individual subsidiary both through reducing the amount of fuel used in delivery, by increasing Managing Director is responsible for the environmental performance of their the efficiency of heating and lighting and maximising the use of natural light own business.
SIG is committed to minimising the environmental impact of in the Groups properties and by environmental awareness training at its activities through good environmental management practices.
Considerable effort has been put into recording and monitoring Environmental Policy was reviewed in 2006.
The policy is displayed in all electricity and gas consumption at each location, with sophisticated reporting trading sites and offices throughout the Group and on the SIG website.
technology being installed at larger locations.
Energy Brokers have been Environmental objectives and targets have been established at relevant instructed to, where practicable, purchase energy from renewable sources.
functions and levels within the organisation.
SIG is working with the Energy Savings Trust Transport Advice Team SIG believes that it is in the Groups best interests to be aware of, and seeks with the aim of achieving a green fleet operation: to minimise the risks arising from, the social and environmental impact of its SIG has a policy of introducing the most energy efficient vehicles activities and is committed to conducting its activities and operations in line commercially available currently considered to be Euro V category with current legislation and best environmental practice, seeking continual engines, which the Company has started to purchase, as vehicles are improvement and innovation within all Group businesses and activities.
due for renewal: All SIG plc UK companies actively seek to: SIG employs staff to train drivers in driving techniques aimed at reducing accidents and damage safe driving and to drive vehicles using methods minimise the use of all materials, supplies and energy and wherever and practices which will reduce fuel consumption.
All vehicles are regularly possible use renewable or recyclable materials: serviced to ensure that vehicle emissions are kept to a minimum: minimise the quantity of waste produced in all aspects of our business: adopt an environmentally sound transport policy: communicate our environmental policy to all staff and encourage them to participate in the achievement of our goals: 32 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 SIG ar06 middle.
indd 1 05 04 2007 11:08:41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the Transport Co-ordinators in each location throughout the Group are required to make the most efficient use of vehicles, consistent with meeting customer requirements.
Techniques used include maximising vehicle loading within legal limits so reducing vehicle numbers, and route planning, to minimise distances travelled and thereby fuel usage: SIG has fitted vehicles with logistics tracking systems and navigation planning equipment.
This is aimed at using the most fuel efficient route for each journey: the Company has a policy, which was introduced in 2005 of seeking to reduce the amount of motor fuel used relative to the amount of goods delivered, by a minimum of 1% per annum: and Komfort Workspace has installed a wood burning boiler at its Crawley site Komfort Workspace has this year launched a range of demountable which uses the off cuts from its manufacturing processes to provide heat partitioning with sustainability in mind.
Each component being reusable for the manufacturing unit.
Packaging and waste reduction SIG actively seeks to reduce the number of printed copies of its Annual SIG works with its suppliers to minimise primary and secondary packaging, Report and Accounts and will be actively encouraging Shareholders to elect while maintaining necessary levels of packaging to ensure that the product to receive their communications from the Company in electronic form.
arrives with the customer in perfect condition.
As a break bulk supplier, The 2006 Annual Report and Accounts has been produced using Mega Silk SIG has recognised that the major impact of the organisation on environmental and Challenger Offset, which are manufactured from wood pulp sourced waste is through packaging and has taken a pro-active approach to minimise from sustainable forests.
It is manufactured using Elemental Chlorine Free the amount of new packaging entering the market and the amount of waste pulp, bleached using weaker chlorine compounds such as chlorine dioxide, generated at trading site level.
producing significantly lower levels of polluting effluent than elemental chlorine bleaching.
This is achieved by: environmental awareness training at all sites including the distribution Acquisitions of energy reduction awareness information and reminder aids Considerable importance is placed on environmental matters as part to all employees: of the due diligence process for acquisitions.
External advisers review and assess any environmental risks to which the Group could potentially purchasing recycled and recyclable packaging where practicable, including become exposed and these are considered as part of the acquisition pallets and cartons: process.
Health and safety compliance and processes are also considered returning reusable pallets to suppliers and similarly recovering used pallets as part of the acquisition process.
from customers: Suppliers and customers reusing packaging for internal transfers and deliveries: The Group has in place a formal supplier audit programme.
The programme is conducted by way of questionnaire and includes a request for details actively taking part in recycling and reclamation schemes through the of the environmental aspects of the suppliers operations.
Environmental Companys membership of Valpak and working closely with suppliers management will be one of the criteria considered when examining to improve the accuracy of data.
SIG meets its responsibilities under the a suppliers qualifications for Group orders.
The Group has a policy that packaging waste regulations in the UK through Valpaks compliance scheme.
all timber purchased for use in its manufacturing activities must be from As part of the Companys ongoing development in this area, it has entered renewable resources.
This is a relatively small part of the UK operations into a national agreement with Veolia for waste removal.
Veolia operates but where accreditation and forest stewardship schemes are applicable its own waste recycling and reclamation compliance scheme: and available, SIG uses these in its sourcing procedures.
SIG embraces electronic communication within its businesses, which has resulted in a significant reduction in internal and external paperwork The Group has in place policies to ensure that its customers receive the level throughout the Group: of service and the quality of product that they have come to expect from SIG.
the expansion of the Groups waste paper and ink cartridge recycling activities at principal administrative centres and where practicable at site level: and SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 8 SIG ar06 middle.
indd 2 05 04 2007 11:09:02 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Accreditation to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 for the Groups UK Mainland sites is a significant achievement in the implementation of SIGs Health and Safety and Environmental policies.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The Group has a Charitable Donations Policy.
The Policy in addition The Group is committed to high standards of health and safety for all of its to supporting local causes where SIG employees are involved, is to provide employees.
The Groups Health and Safety Policy was reviewed in 2006. support for three main charities for a period of three years commencing The Policy is displayed throughout the Groups workplaces and is available in November 2004.
The three charities selected in the fields of disadvantaged on the Companys website.
Whilst Mr. D. Williams, the Chief Executive, children, humanities and the environment are: is the Board Director responsible for the health and safety performance Henshaws College, which is a unique and pioneering education facility of the Group, the SIG systems ensure that responsibility exists throughout offering high quality independent living skills training to around 65 young all of the SIG businesses.
Health and safety objectives and targets have been people aged between 16 and 23, all of whom are visually impaired with established at relevant functions and levels within the organisation.
SIG supports five students from different parts of the UK: As part of the Boards ongoing commitment to its health and safety improvement policy a programme to achieve OHSAS accreditation Yorkshire Wildlife Trust where SIG sponsors a number of Wildlife projects commenced in 2004 with Moody International as Assessors.
The preliminary and have encouraged volunteering days for interested staff: and audits were completed in November 2005 and all of the Groups UK mainland Hope and Homes for Children, which is an international charity, engaged sites received OHSAS certification following the final audits in April 2006. in providing homes and support for children on a long term basis in third world and war torn countries.
The continuing improvement of health and safety performance is a key priority.
A Health and Safety Training Manager has been recruited to lead Staff are kept informed of charitable activities and are encouraged to attend the ongoing program to ensure that all UK subsidiary company directors and events as appropriate, as a means of encouraging them to be personally managers will have received appropriate training in health and safety in order associated with charitable work and in particular with the causes supported to meet their responsibilities.
Additional Health and Safety Advisers who are by the Group.
This has included sponsorship for individuals entering specific either Company or regionally based have been recruited to support the events and support in kind for building projects.
By way of example CPD increased focus on health and safety education and awareness at workplace employee Neale Sim, Assistant Manager at the Liverpool CPD Branch level and to carry out full health and safety audits at every UK site.
Forklift pictured on page 33, supported by the Company, raised money for the and commercial driver training form an important part of SIGs Workplace charity Scope undertaking a three week high altitude trek up Mount Everest.
Safety Policy, which impacts on reduced insurance costs, enhanced pedestrian and site safety and improved working environment.
Daily inspections The Group has in place a Payroll Giving Scheme, which is available to all complement periodic training to keep the vehicle and driver at peak UK employees.
The Company launched this with a gift matching initiative to performance.
The statistics collected by the Group in the UK on a monthly encourage staff to enrol.
Employees are free to choose one of the current basis indicates that the overall rate of workplace injuries within the UK SIG sponsored charities listed above or any other charity of their choice.
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF ETHICS COMMUNITY The Group is currently in the process of publishing a Group wide Code The Group endeavours to contribute to the communities in which it of Ethics, which sets out a number of fundamental principles, which all operates particularly those neighbouring its sites.
SIG is a member of Group companies will be required to follow.
It is intended that the Code Business in the Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation when published will be available on the SIG website.
The Code will include to help to develop its approach and practices.
This is mainly achieved the Companys policy on how it addresses bribery and corruption.
SIGs through charitable donations and other initiatives that help the community.
existing policy on employee conduct and behaviour is set out in its Staff The Group also provides financial support for employees undertaking Handbooks which all employees receive a copy of on joining the Company.
The key business principles contained in the Code of Ethics are set out below: The HR Director has responsibility for community issues within the Group SIGs policy is to operate within applicable laws: and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for community issues discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: at Board level.
SIG aims to be a responsible partner within its local communities: DONATIONS the legal and moral rights of others will be taken into account in all SIGs During the year the Group made charitable donations of 100k 2005: 98k.
business transactions: It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made in the year 2005: nil.
we will maintain a safe and healthy environment for people to work in: we will be proactive in managing our responsibilities to the environment: we should not knowingly make misrepresentations: 34 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 SIG ar06 middle.
indd 3 05 04 2007 11:09:02 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE There is an active and extensive programme of training in place.
Full-time dedicated professional trainers are employed and their work is supplemented as required by external courses and external agencies.
In order to meet ever increasing customer demand particular emphasis is placed on technical, customer service and interpersonal skills.
The Group has an objective of increasing the number of man-hours of staff and management training each year.
Work has been undertaken during 2006 to identify in more detail the training and development needs of operating company directors and senior managers within the UK.
Personal development plans have been agreed and a programme of activities launched.
Processes to identify and nurture talent within the business have been enhanced, with the Group actively seeking to develop emerging talent, those with potential to progress into management, as well as existing managers seeking to progress their careers.
Baseline motives have been established to enable comparisons to take place in the future.
SIG recognises the importance of good communications with employees and acknowledges that there should be clear channels of communication and opportunities for consultation and dialogue on issues, which affect both business performance and employees work lives.
This is achieved through a variety of media including the Groups intranet, noticeboards, newsletters and meetings.
All employees are regularly offered the opportunity to address any questions, as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: particularly relating to the financial performance of SIG in relation to the no bribes can be given or received: Results Announcements, directly to the Chief Executive, either by email, by telephone, or in writing.
conflicts of interest must be avoided and in all cases must be reported: and During the year the Group introduced a childcare voucher system whereby employees are encouraged to report any suspected wrongdoings.
UK employees can elect to receive childcare vouchers in lieu of part of their salary in a tax efficient manner.
EMPLOYEES The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing employees Employees are encouraged to become Shareholders in the Company.
SIG recognises that its reputation is dependent The Group introduced a new Share Investment Pan SIP in November 2005 on the quality, effectiveness and skill base of its employees and is committed in place of the Save As You Earn Scheme.
The Company gives one matching to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically share for each share purchased by the employee up to a maximum of four to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, sex, nationality matching shares per month.
At 31 December 2006 there were 1,425 or ethnic origin.
employees saving under the Companys SIP.
Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance The Group operates a number of employee pension schemes across its with their abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
In the UK it operates a Defined Contribution Scheme, which If an employee becomes disabled during employment the Group makes is open to all employees.
The Groups UK Defined Benefit Schemes have every effort to enable them to continue employment, with re-training for been closed to new members since 1997. alternative work where necessary.
The HR Director has responsibility for human resource issues within The Group has a commitment to ensure that all employees and management the Group and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for are properly inducted into the Company and given the necessary training human resource issues at Board level.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 8 SIG ar06 middle.
