THE BUSINESS AND THE COMMUNITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Smith & Nephews aim is to help people live longer healthier and more active lives by repairing and healing the human body with advanced technology products.
The Group contributes to the treatment and recovery of patients throughout the cycle of medical care.
This is achieved by the design of products and instruments, the training of medical professionals and the procedures used to provide treatment and recovery.
Cost effective solutionsfor healthcare systems are achieved throughthe use of advanced technology.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other professional healthcare customers with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits of the Groups new products and line extensions not only improve patient outcomes but provide better treatment and procedures for both clinician and patient and contribute to more cost effective solutions for healthcare services.
In developing a sustainable business, Smith & Nephew considers that it has a low impact on the environment and is committed to improvingthe management of its environment, socialand economicimpact.
The Group has published a Sustainability Report since2001.
TheGroup monitorsprogress and views sustainable development as an integral part of the way the Group does business.
The seventh Sustainability Report, which gives detailed information, willbe published onthe Groups website inMay 2007 at www.
Smith & Nephews progress is measured by three leading organisations that assess sustainable development.
In 2006, the company was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and was named as leader in its sector.
In the UK, Smith & Nephew is a member of FTSE4Good and in France, Vigeo publishes an assessment report onSmith & Nephew used by some of the leading investment banks inEurope.
BusinessIntegrity Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from those with whom it does business.
The code of standards for suppliers, and the compliance processes for these standards is under continuous development.
Smith & Nephew does not give or receive improper financial inducements, either directly or indirectly, for business or financial gain.
The Group complies with the industry standards set by Eucomed in Europe and Advamed in the US in its relationships with customers.
Accounting records and supporting documents are designed to accurately describe and reflect the business transactions and conform to IFRS and US GAAP.
The Groups Code of Business Principles available at www.
com who governs the way it operates so that it respects stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
The Group takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of its operating methods.
Since 2005, the Group has operated a Code of Business Ethics and a Whistleblower Policy for all employees.
The success of these actions is demonstrated by the positive responses seen in the 2006 Employee Global Opinion Survey to questions about ethical operation.
Innovation Smith & Nephew uses innovation to create cost-effective products and techniques which deliver benefits for clinicians and patients.
The Groups scientific and technical leadership combined with an understanding of the needs of clinicians, enables Smith & Nephew to produce unique new products with distinct advantages in clinical performanceand cost-effectiveness.
The Groups research and development strategy is based on assessment of market needs and a longer range view of future requirements and opportunities.
Fundamental scientific work and the development of new technologiesare used to create new products and  delivery inthe future.
It is the Groups practice to develop platform technologies on which to build product ranges.
This provides an efficient and cost effective means for product development.
A measure of the Groups success in innovation is the proportion of revenue from new products introduced in the last three years to total revenue.
This information for 2006 is: reconstruction 16%, trauma and clinical therapies 26%, endoscopy 28% and advanced wound management 13%.
15 Group Description Health, Safety and Environment Management The Group has a health, safety and environmental HSE policy which sets out the Groups vision, aim, commitmentand operating  to HSE.
TheGroups commitmentis to: Give due regard to the effects of its operations on the environment and community to create a sustainable business.
Provide and maintaina safe and healthy workenvironmentfor employees, contractorsand visitors.
Require each Smith & Nephew business to achieve the HSE standards specified by the policy.
Seek to improve HSE performance through continuous evaluation and development of measures to control risk, conserve resources and minimisewaste.
Recognise, promote and reinforce the responsibility of employees, contractors and visitors to work safely and followprocedures.
In 2006 the advanced wound management factory in Hull, England and the orthopaedics sites in Memphis, Tennessee and Tuttlingen, Germany maintained accreditation of their environmental management systems under IS014001.
All Group manufacturing and research sites have designed environmental management systems to deliver cost savings and benefits to the environment.
Particular emphasis is placed on close control of energy, water consumption and waste in manufacturing and research and development.
Improvement targets are set and performance is measured against these targets.
ii Number ofaccidents resulting in a person being unable toworkthe followingday per 200,000 hours worked.
iii Number ofcases ofoccupational illhealth resulting in a day ormore awayfromwork per 1,000 people employed.
The 2004 hazardous waste figure excludes a spillage of chrome plating materials which occurred at the manufacturing site in Memphis.
Working closely with the state authorities, prompt action was taken resulting in a total of 920 tonnes of affected soil being removed from the site to eliminate any possible contamination.
Carbon dioxide emissions are calculated from the energy consumption and are dependent on the mix of energy used.
As a result of that mix, emissions rose in2006 despite a slight fall intotal energy consumption.
The rise in non-hazardous waste arose from the introduction, validation and optimising of new processes at the advanced woundmanagement factory inHull, England.
The fall in hazardous waste was largely the result of a change in the classification of FLAMAZINE burn treatment productionwaste at Hull, England from hazardousto non-hazardous.
Advanced wound management and the orthopaedics businesses continued to focus on the opportunities to recyclewaste leading to a significantincrease in2006.
Theincrease inwater consumptionin2006 arises from increased manufacturingoutput at Memphis, Tennessee.
The Group continues to show a year on year improvement in its lost time accident and occupational ill health performance.
A full analysis of these measurements and key health and safety performance measures will be included in the 2007 Sustainability Report onthe Groups website whenit is published inMay 2007.
16 Social responsibility The Smith & Nephew Code of Business Principles and Code of Ethics governs the Groups interactions with its stakeholders.
This sets out the behaviours and conduct stakeholders can expect from the Group.
The Code of Business Principlesdescribes the Groups values and provides a frameworkfor employees.
Employees The HR Policy Framework introduced group-wide in 2006 sets the key HR policies, values and behaviours and management principles that provide the structure within which the business units operate and deliver successful results.
Smith & Nephew has a policy of non-discrimination and aims to provide an open environment based on constructive relationships.
Smith & Nephew welcomes people with disabilities and makes positive efforts to retain any employee who has a disability.
The Group is committed to engaging with employees through the regular and timely dissemination of Group information and encouraging their feedback and ideas.
An employee global opinionsurvey is used every two years as a catalyst for improvements.
The 2006 Global Opinion Survey was completed towards the end of the year and the results communicated to employees by February 2007.
The results indicated continued high levels of employee engagement with the values and direction of the Group.
90% of employees said that they were proud to work for Smith & Nephew, 84% believed that they would stay with the Group for the forseeable future and would recommend the Group as a good employer to friends and family.
The Groups employees also told management that it needs to improve ways of working, speed of decision making and strengthen the link between performance and reward.
This survey used improved methodology providing a wider scope of measurements and the facility to be able to analyse down to individual departments provided they are of sufficient size.
For the first time, it was conducted online only and the Group had a high participation rate of 86%.
Details of the results and planned improvement actionswillbe covered inthe next Sustainability Report inMay 2007.
In 2006 the Group has continued to assess a number of indicators of employee engagement.
These measurements are a useful monitoring tool and alert mechanism for action as well as giving trend indicators of improved performance.
Threeyears data is nowavailable and is buildingintoa useful database.
Internal Appointments The internal appointments measure is an indicator of how well the Group believes it is developing its employees and the success of the Groups internal recruitment policy.
In 2006 an average of 28.2% 2005 23.1% of vacancies across all parts of the business were filled by internal applicants with over 37% 2005 35% of vacancies filled in the Groups business units.
The target for all employees, realistic in a growth environment, is 40%.
During 2006 the Group has started to specifically measure the percentage of management positions filled internally: advanced wound management was 80%: endoscopy was 60%: and the Research centre was 100%.
The target for management positions is 70%.
In 2007 these figures will be available for the whole Group.
The Group has a policy of open advertising and providing opportunities for existing employees wherever possible, whilerecognisingthe need to bringinnew ideas and approaches that external recruitmentbrings.
Labour Turnover For the last three years the Group measured both general voluntary labour turnover and turnover relating specifically to employees who have been with the business less than two years.
The latter measure is an indication of how well the Group recruits and then retains its employees so that they can make a contribution to the business.
The average turnover for employees leaving the Group within two years of joining was 6.2% 2005 4.3% ranging from 2.1% 15.2% for the year.
The average labour turnover figures are within the expected level for businesses inthe Groups sector.
Average labourturnoverinthe Groups business units was 2.8%.
Training and  The Group is committed to providing training and information so that all employees can make the best contribution possible.
Learning and development programmes are used to attract, retain and develop employees.
These programmes are linked to formal performance appraisal and development planning.
2005 saw the development and implementation of a range of training programmes under the banner of Management Excellence.
These continue to provide the key management skills required to be successful managers and leaders, covering the requirements of both new and experienced individuals.
Further programmes have been added in 2006 and the Group has continued to invest in on-line learning resources to further enable access to trainingfor all employees.
17 Group Description Leadership The Group continues to develop its current and future leaders to improve the performance of the business.
The senior management supports a set of group-wide leadership competencies and management development is a regular item on their meeting agenda.
Performance evaluation, coaching and attendance at leadership programmes are utilised.
2005 was the first full year of a Group leadership excellence programme, a three-day purpose designed residential course facilitated by a business school coach and this has been continued in 2006.
The programme focuses on leadership style and interaction and to date, over 100 senior managers have attended the .
Workplace Smith & Nephew provides healthy and safe working conditions for all its employees.
Health and safety is managed as an integral part of the business and employee involvement is recognised as a key part of the process.
The Group does not use any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
The Group supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and respects human rights, the dignity and privacy of the individual, the rightof employees to freedom of association, freedom of expression and the rightto be heard.
Societyand Community The Group works with national and local government and other organisations to meet its legal and civic obligations, manage its impact on the environment, and contribute to the development of laws and regulations that affect its business.
Smith & Nephew values community involvement and is an active member of its local communitiesand supports employees whoundertake communitywork.
The Groups principles for charitable giving are based on criteria relevant to its business, with priority given to medical education.
Individual company sites support their local communities in a range of charitable causes givingdonationsof money, gifts inkindand employee time.
The Group realises that its technologies and products do not reach everyone.
Project Apollo is a charitable and humanitarian service programme of the orthopaedics business.
This links up with physicians and non-profit groups engaged in medical philanthropy who receive donations of Smith & Nephew products with sponsorship and help from the Groups employees.
Teamed with these individuals and organisations, Smith & Nephew considersthat this is a way of increasingthe impact of charitable givingand the workit undertakes.
The Smith & Nephew Foundation is an independent charitable trust funded by Smith & Nephew advanced wound management.
It makes awards to individuals in the nursing professions for postgraduate research to improve clinical practice in nursing and midwifery.
The Foundation is the largest single charitable awarding body to the nursingprofessions inthe UK.
More examples of the programmes supported by Smith & Nephew are given inthe Sustainability Report.
In 2006, direct donations to charitable and community activities totalled $1,375,000 of which $279,000 was given to the Smith & Nephew Foundation.
Customers The Group is committed to providing innovative, cost-effective healthcare solutions benefiting healthcare professionals and their patients through improved treatment, ease and speed of product use and reduced healthcare costs.
It will continue to provide education and training support for healthcare professionals and maintaininvestment inresearch and development.
In 2006 Smith & Nephew had one of the strongest new product launch programmes in its history particularly in reconstruction where two new hips and two new knees were launched.
In addition, Smith & Nephews BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing product was approved by the FDA in the US bringingthe benefits of this productto the Americanmarket.
The Groups products are designed to be safe and reliable for their intended use and comply with or exceed all legal and regulatory requirements, including those concerningpackaging, labelling and user instructions.
The aim is to anticipate future standards and requirements promotinghealth and safety of its customers and patients.
18 BusinessPartners Smith & Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group works only with partners whom it believes adhere to business principles and health, safety, social and environmental standards consistent with its own.
Additional work has been done in 2006 to improve the monitoring of supplier standards for service quality and activities relevant to their corporate responsibility.
Economic Contribution The Groups business policies are designed to achieve long-term growth and profits which in turn bring continued economic benefits to shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Smith & Nephews sustainable development depends onits ability to provide a satisfactory economicreturn.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other healthcare professionals with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits from the Groups products improve patient outcomes, treatments and procedures for both clinician and patient and create cost effective solutionsfor healthcare services.
The Group has built expertise in the area of measuring healthcare economics within its advanced wound management business and continues to make good progress in developing similar systems across the business.
A description of the principles of healthcare economics and its integration into the business is given in the Sustainability Report.
LookingAhead The Group is fulfilling an important role in its areas of expertise.
Increased demands are being made on healthcare systems as the baby boomer generation ages and obesity becomes more widespread.
More active lifestyles and the increased incidence of diabetes, and other diseases increase also the demand for Smith & Nephews products.
Smith & Nephews strategy is to build upon its leading technologies, expand its markets and provide advanced technology to the medical profession.
The Group believes that it can achieve this by setting and meeting ambitious performance targets, by constant innovation in products and services and by earning the trust of its stakeholders.
In all its business activities, the drive towards sustainability is an ongoing process and Smith & Nephew is committed to maintaining a consistent effort to improve.
The Groups aim is to innovate to improve treatments and reduce healthcare costs thus contributingto sustainable and improvinghealthcare systems.
In reporting sustainability, Smith & Nephew is committed to improved monitoring of its performance in its development as a sustainable business.
It has made progress in introducing a range of non-financial Key Performance Indicators.
It is intended to introduce these during 2007 for health, safety and environment and  to expand economicimpact reporting.
19 Group Description EMPLOYEES The average number of full-time equivalent employees in 2006 was 8,830, of whom 1,776 were located in the UK, 4,087 were located in the US and 2,967 were located in other countries.
The Group does not employ a significantnumberof temporary employees.
Smith & Nephew operates share option schemes that are available to the majority of employees for further informationsee Note 26 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Further informationabout Smith & Nephew employees, management principlesand Visionand Values is set out inthe sustainability report onthe Smith & Nephew corporatewebsite.
