26 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued April 2006 May 2006 Smiths chemical biological protective Smiths provides Thrust Reverser Actuation shelters for US military System for Boeing 747-8 We developed this shelter for the US Smiths Aerospace was selected by Boeing to Department of Defense as a highly mobile, supply the Thrust Reverser Actuation System self-contained, collective protection system.
TRAS for the new 747-8 airplane.
Potential It demonstrates a growing capability in sales could exceed $100m.
The outcome of legal action is always uncertain and there Corporate responsibility is always the risk that it may prove more costly and time Corporate responsibility for Smiths is enshrined in the consuming than expected.
There is a risk that additional sixth strength: doing business the right way.
Smiths defines litigation could be instigated in the future which could have the right way in the Code of Corporate Responsibility and a material impact on the Company.
In some liability cases, Business Ethics the Code, which is based on 12 principles: legal expenses are covered by insurance.
1 compliance with national laws and regulations: Internal risks 2 fair and vigorous competition in the marketplace: Investment in new products, projects and technology Smiths develops new technologies and introduces new 3 integrity and ethical conduct as the standard of individual products, in some cases contracting to supply the products and corporate business behaviour: to the customer before the design is established or proven.
4 fair and honest treatment of suppliers and customers: All new technologies and products involve business risk both in terms of possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk, 5 proper and respectful treatment of employees: and potential customer claims or onerous contracts.
Such 6 high standards for health and safety in the workplace: risks may have a material impact on the Company.
7 respect for the environment: Acquisitions Smiths is an active acquirer: acquisitions may involve risks 8 contributions to the communities in which we live that might have a material impact on the Company.
These and work: risks are mitigated by extensive due diligence, and, where 9 straightforward public information and activities: practicable, by representations and warranties and indemnities from the vendors.
10 respect for human rights: Controls failure 11 prudent and transparent public accounting and reporting: Smiths operates controls as described in the Corporate and governance report.
Failures in these controls might have 12 a culture of compliance throughout the entire Smiths a material impact on the Company.
organisation from the Chief Executive to the newest Inability to supply and business continuity employee.
Inability to supply against contractual commitments is a Translated into 13 languages, the Code applies to all Smiths risk, which could be material in relation to larger contracts.
businesses and employees worldwide and provides the Smiths mitigates this risk by implementing effective business framework for policies, programmes and procedures for a continuity plans throughout the Company and, where range of corporate responsibility issues.
It is endorsed and practicable, transferring them through business interruption fully supported by the Board.
Controls on defence sales All sales of defence equipment are undertaken in accordance with government export and approval procedures and regulations, such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulation and the Export Administration Regulation in the USA.
These laws prohibit export of certain items to specific countries.
Smiths adheres to all relevant government guidelines designed to ensure that products are not incorporated into weapons or other equipment used for the purposes of terrorism, internal repression or abuse of human rights, with internal controls to ensure compliance with these guidelines.
Compliance support to Smiths businesses worldwide is provided through a Business Ethics and Compliance team, which provides advice, export control policies, education, training, guidance materials and risk assessment tools.
27 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued June 2006 Smiths opens plant in Russia Smiths Detection opened a production facility in St Petersburg enabling it to serve the fast-growing Russian security market.
In addition, Smiths Aerospace, together with the UKs leading Board.
Responsibility for managing specific issues, however, defence companies and defence sector trade associations, lies at different levels within the Company, depending on the joined the UK Defence Industry Anti-Corruption Forum, nature of the issue and how it can most effectively be managed: established earlier this year to promote the prevention of environmental issues are managed though a Group-wide bribery and corruption in the international defence business.
steering committee and organisation: Developments in reporting health and safety issues are managed likewise: For the first time Smiths is producing a Corporate responsibility employee issues are managed through the human report this year, building on the environment, health and safety resources function and by line management: reports published in previous years.
Bringing the discipline of reporting and measuring progress to other Company supplier customer programmes are managed divisionally: responsibilities employees, suppliers, communities will and help Smiths ensure that, in the long term, the principles of the community programmes are principally managed locally, Code are implemented consistently across the business.
although there is also some Group-level activity.
You can find the full report on the Smiths website, For the coming year, Smiths has set three main goals for www.
Following is a summary of the main managing corporate responsibility: activities and progress for 2006. to understand better the Companys corporate Summary of Corporate responsibility report responsibilities as they apply to global operations: Managing corporate responsibility to capture the views and opinions of key stakeholders: and The Code is set by the Board and monitored by the Code Compliance Council, chaired by the General Counsel, which to continue to drive the Companys environment, health and reports at least twice a year to the Audit Committee of the safety programmes.
Environment Smiths is committed to ensuring that, as far as is reasonably practicable, any detrimental effects of its activities, products and services upon the environment are minimised.
In practice, this means using performance-based environmental management systems to drive improvement throughout the business.
Performance against targets Target set July 04 2006 result Comment ISO14001 certification 83 out of 104 eligible sites certified Programmes in place to for all sites except small offices, with new achieve certification for the acquisitions achieving certification within two years remaining sites Energy consumption 176MWh m sales Target achieved one year target set at 180MWh m sales 5% reduction early.
Continuing with efforts over three years to achieve further reduction Waste to landfill 2.93 Tonnes m sales Target achieved one year target set at 3.5 Tonnes m sales 6% reduction early.
Continuing with efforts over three years to achieve further reduction Air emissions target set at 112kg m sales 100kg m sales Target achieved one year 6% reduction over three years early.
Continuing with efforts to achieve further reduction 3 Water consumption 398m m sales Target achieved one year 3 target set at 411m m sales 12% reduction early.
Continuing with efforts over three years to achieve further reduction 28 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued June 2006 Smiths turbine plant New Smiths Aerospace turbine engine components facility in West Jefferson, North Carolina.
The new facility represents a US$44m investment by Smiths.
Health and safety Smiths is committed to conducting all its activities in a manner which achieves the highest practicable standards of health and safety.
Smiths operates an internal health and safety management system using proprietary audit software against which all facilities are assessed once a year.
This year, the overall average scores for compliance continued to improve steadily, from 70% to 73%.
Performance against targets Target set July 04 2006 result Comment Recordable incident rate 2.58 200,000 man-hours Ongoing year-on-year no target set improvement achieved Lost days rate 27.91 200,000 man-hours Ongoing year-on-year no target set improvement achieved Lost time incident rate 1.15 200,000 man-hours Target not yet achieved, 1 incident 200,000 man-hours additional focus on this area Employees Reaching full potential Smiths and its businesses employ 31,832 people in 46 Smiths invests in employees skills and capabilities to help countries on six continents.
57% of employees are located them reach their own full potential, which in turn helps the in North America, and 23% in the UK.
The remaining 20% Company and its businesses to do likewise.
Current priorities is predominantly located in Germany, France and Italy.
for Smiths to achieve full potential across the Group are talent development, succession planning and employee engagement.
The Companys policy is to provide equal opportunities for employment.
Smiths recruits, selects and promotes Talent development employees on the basis of their qualifications, skills, aptitude Smiths Group and the individual businesses continue to and attitude.
In employment-related decisions, Smiths invest in identifying and developing the talents of employees.
complies with anti-discrimination requirements in the relevant Smiths provides employees with challenging work that jurisdictions concerning matters of race, colour, national stretches their capabilities, backing that up with training and origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, religious development activities tailored to individual needs.
In 2006, belief, age, or physical or mental disability.
Disabled people Smiths introduced a new process for the most senior people, are given full consideration for employment and subsequent integrating the performance review with the overall full training, career development and promotion on the basis of potential goals of the business.
Smiths continues to be actively involved in all aspects of All Smiths employees are treated with respect and dignity.
training and developing young people, including initiatives Accordingly, any harassment or bullying is unacceptable.
designed to ease the transition from school to work.
Horizons Smiths respects the right of each employee to join or not to is a two-year programme for newly and recently appointed join a trade union or other bona fide employee representative graduates and those early in their career which provides an organisation.
Smiths believes in good communications with understanding of the Company and the business world in employees and in promoting consultation, co-operation and general, and develops personal and teamworking skills.
teamwork on matters of mutual concern.
Succession planning Smiths offers share schemes that enable employees to Smiths has a systematic succession management process acquire an interest in the Companys shares and to align for senior leadership roles.
The Company identifies leadership their interests more closely with those of shareholders.
talent and development needs, and follows this up with 29 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Operating and financial review continued August 2006 January 2006 Smiths launches new IVF catheter Smiths in top 100 most sustainable We believe in talking to our customers and businesses adapting to fit their needs.
This year we Smiths was voted one of the worlds most launched a new range of catheters for IVF sustainable businesses in the Global 100. procedures after talking to fertility specialists This is a listing of the global blue chip and patients.
The embryo transfer catheters companies with the strongest sustainability are the first to be visible under ultrasound.
individual development plans that are monitored by senior The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to management.
the members of the Company.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance Employee engagement and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements Smiths provides information to and communicates with involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause employees as an important part of doing business.
Employees results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The are regularly provided with a wide range of information forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company concerning the performance and prospects of the business undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
in which they are involved by means of employee councils, Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
information and consultation forums, and other consultative bodies that allow their views to be taken into account.
Suppliers The Companys policy and practice is to pay suppliers promptly in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The average time taken to pay an invoice was 35 days 2005: 35 for the parent Company and 48 days 2005: 48 for the Group as a whole calculated in compliance with the Companies Act 1985 Directors Report Statement of Payment Practice Regulations 1997.
Smiths believes in working in partnership with its suppliers, so as to meet the expectations of customers, and to ensure quality, value and timeliness throughout the supply chain.
The extent to which the Company works in partnership with suppliers varies across the Group, however, and this is therefore an area Smiths will be focusing on in the coming year in terms of understanding better the Companys corporate responsibilities as they apply to global operations.
Communities As well as providing employment opportunities and training and development activities, Smiths seeks to contribute to the communities in which it operates by participating in and supporting community and charitable initiatives.
With long-established roots in local communities where Smiths is often a major employer, Smiths businesses take an active role in the community, in schools, universities, and hospitals.
These are often small but significant initiatives involving peoples time, rather than large corporate donations.
Individual businesses also support charity projects, for example funding the Smiths Medical Chair of Anaesthesia and Critical Care at University College London.
Additionally, Smiths supports national and international charitable organisations from a central budget administered by the Charity and Donations Committee, for example donations to St Mungos, a London-based charity that provides practical support for thousands of homeless and vulnerable people.
