CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY soCos commitment to high standards of corporate responsibility Cr is a core business priority.
the Company supports the principle that whilst a Board has a primary responsibility to its shareholders, it should also take full account of other stakeholders interests.
soCo believes that integrating Cr and sustainable development good practice into its management culture will lower the Companys risk profile and promote new opportunities.
This report focuses on our CR management and explains how this supports SOCOs overall business performance.
SOCO does not yet have an expansive set of policy documents and procedures, which is reflective of the relatively small scale and nature of the Companys activities and size of organisation.
Currently, the Company directly participates in the operation of two offshore exploration and appraisal ventures, in Vietnam and the Republic of Congo Brazzaville.
In these cases, environmental and social impacts are relatively minor.
Environmental impact assessments are nevertheless carried out and independent performance monitoring is standard practice.
Beginning in 2006, SOCO has begun onshore operations in the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa and detailed procedures are being developed for this activity see below.
Where SOCO participates as an operating interest holder or co-venturer in a project, we can directly influence operations and decision making.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 20 21 However, where SOCO holds a minority interest, as subsequent monitoring of their performance.
This an investor or participant in a project, our influence will become more of an issue for any development is less direct.
In both cases, our expectations for activities, where social and environmental impact CR are clearly established, communicated and would normally be much greater than that arising monitored.
The Company has had a health, safety from SOCOs current exploration focus.
and environment HSE policy conforming to best practice since the first year of its existence, and With SOCOs recent entry into West Africa, has tailored HSE management systems for its a new core area of operations, it has been Vietnam operations.
New operations in West Africa important to review and clarify the Companys will be undertaken using bespoke management approach to the implementation of community systems specific to the types of environment and relations and related risk management practices operations.
The Company also deploys external to assure the following key objectives: advisors to ensure that good practice is achieved.
Preservation and enhancement of SOCOs The Companys Code of Business Conduct and reputation and that of its existing and future joint Ethics the Code was drawn up in response venture partners to rising expectations in the wider community, Reduction of corresponding operating risks including among many institutional shareholders, in relation to the assets regarding social, environmental and ethical Clarification of SOCOs responsive risk management and is available to view on the management strategy Companys website.
Approved by the Board in Positioning for reporting on social risks and June 2004, the Code documents and responsive management practices.
encapsulates the Companys culture and objectives and addresses the three pillars of As such, we have had an independent third party sustainable development: economic, contractor, who specialises in this work, review our environmental and social performance.
It is current approach and recommend improvements.
designed to be a dynamic policy that will evolve Lessons from this assessment will be applied, as the Company expands its activities.
SOCO will with appropriate modifications, to all SOCOs continue to communicate its CR activities using operations in West Africa, as well as elsewhere.
its annual report and corporate website to complementary effect.
recent actiVity and outLook it is a priority west aFrica Consideration SOCOs approach to CR begins with the In the last year, SOCO has agreed participation in recruitment of key managers and operations offshore Republic of Congo Brazzaville, onshore that every personnel.
It is a priority consideration that every Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa and relevant employee understands the importance onshore Cabinda.
SOCO is operator for the first relevant of CR management and has knowledge of what two operations so has principal responsibility for employee constitutes best practice, which can foster management of CR issues.
informed decision making and an instinctive understands appreciation of the relevant business SOCOs new operations in West Africa are implications associated with each operation.
managed deploying the same approach to the importanCe There is no restriction on the use of external local involvement that the Company has taken of Cr advisors to ensure that corporate objectives are elsewhere in the past, principally Mongolia, where met.
This approach of utilising external, rather our operations were always underpinned by the management than dedicated internal resources can be highly Companys strong commitment to building skills effective in a company of SOCOs size because among local communities.
This has the effect of and has corporate objectives are not compromised by generating positive economic benefits, both locally knoWledge of management numbers and layers.
Virtually all of the people who work core element of SOCOs business culture, for us in the Republic of Congo Brazzaville and What Constitutes which is a source of potential benefit, is the the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa, practice of maximising local employment and whether employees or contractors, are nationals.
Their association with SOCO will give them access to training of a high international standard.
This Local involvement is our policy in all operations approach to local communities works both ways: that we control.
Such an approach has as well as reducing SOCOs costs and risk significantly benefited operations and has been exposure, it will attract ongoing support from a major factor in SOCO winning access to the local authorities.
opportunities on the strength of the relationships it has forged for example, in Vietnam.
A highly repuBLic oF congo BrazzaViLLe localised approach does, however, introduce Already, even though SOCO only established additional risks.
An ever-present risk is that an office in late 2006, the Company, together contractors may not, in practice, share an with the support and co-operation of the Ministry operating companys commitment to high CR of Hydrocarbons in the Republic of Congo standards.
This can be critical where contractors Brazzaville has supplied or commenced a have a large degree of control over day-to-day number of projects aimed directly at providing activities, and act as the main interface with support for the benefit of the local communities members of government and local communities.
These include the supply This applies particularly to locally based contractors of 3,000 impregnated mosquito nets to the and subcontractors whose histories and cultures communities of Ngoyo and Lumumba, supply may have demanded different social and of drugs at the Polyclinic Kitoko in Pointe Noire, environmental standards.
the drilling of a water well for the community of Madingo-Kayes, and the distribution of school SOCO manages this area of risk carefully, stationery and Christmas presents to children both in its selection of contractors and the in Pointe Noire.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED SOCO, through its wholly owned subsidiary yemen SOCO Exploration and Production Congo, has In Yemen, increased oil production has led already conducted seismic operations in the to an increase in associated gas production which shallow water Marine XI licence area.
Prior to this has resulted in increased gas flaring, rising to activity, the Company completed the required approximately 21 million cubic feet per day environmental assessments and impact studies.
SOCO has encouraged and supported Exploration activity is likely to commence in 2008 the operator in addressing this issue and the first and this year will see the additional work needed temporary gas injection facilities, having a capacity to support the approval of drilling operations of 10 MMCFD, are now installed and are being completed.
This will include all the required commissioned.
Additional permanent facilities environmental assessments.
have been designed and all the initial required activities commenced.
At the same time, gas fired democratic repuBLic oF congo kinshasa power generation and gas fuelled engines, which SOCO is currently preparing to undertake a seismic will utilise up to 3 MMCFD and displace existing programme in its Democratic Republic of Congo diesel powered generators, are being installed.
Part of the planning for The diesel powered engines produce more harmful this survey will involve environmental and social emissions than gas and the fuel requires impact assessments.
An important first step will transportation to site by road tankers.
be the identification of local social issues and this will require interaction with local communities to mongoLia learn about their social priorities and to inform Our operations in Mongolia, which have now them about the nature of impending and future been disposed of, had always been underpinned operations.
Being onshore, active community by a strong commitment to building skills among liaison will be important as will deployment of local communities.
Virtually all of the people who local personnel to support operations.
worked for us in the country, whether employees or contractors were Mongolian nationals and Vietnam their association with SOCO gave them access The Company also continues to demonstrate its to training of the highest international standards.
In 2006, as well as Even in the sale of its Mongolian assets, the providing a donation and support for victims of the Company worked with the government to preserve Typhoon Xangsane, we also contributed towards and enhance local involvement in order to make the construction of the Dang Thuy Tram hospital the most of the change in ownership of the asset.
at Duc Pho, Quang Ngai province.
Also, financial The new Chinese owners are committed to an assistance for the construction of Ky Son Hospital even higher level of activity which will further in Hao Binh province was made.
This project will benefit Mongolian and Chinese communities benefit a community of over 4,200 people and affected by the operations.
will serve the community for at least the next 10 years.
Equally, financial support was given for the poLicy and Future construction of a surgery for children with Delta management oF cr Muscle Fibrosis in Ha Tinh Provice that deals with SOCO is committed to applying widely accepted some 1,500 cases of the disease.
good practice in CR management.
The detailed guidance set out by the World Bank Group and At the same time we have contributed towards incorporated into the Equator Principles agreed the upgrading and provision of educational facilities, as well as scholarship for underprivileged pupils, in the Binh Thuan district of Ho Chi Minh City.
We continue to support construction of a rehabilitation centre for Agent Orange victims in Vinh Phuc Province.
After receiving the required approvals, the levelling of the surface and the commencement of construction has commenced.
Support for this project will continue in 2007.
Successful exploration and appraisal offshore Vietnam has resulted in the formation of plans for development.
With the approval of the first development full environmental and social impact assessments have been undertaken, although impacts are expected to be minor.
Oil production will pass to existing onshore facilities, so the principal impact will be an extension of the useful life of these assets, thus having a beneficial sustainability influence.
The most material environmental issue will be the production of significant quantities of associated gas.
This represents an important economic asset for the Company and the Vietnamese people.
Current plans are based on the successful sale of this gas for national use, passing through existing facilities.
In the event that satisfactory arrangements cannot be achieved in the development timescale, the gas will be temporarily injected until commercial contracts can be agreed.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 22 23 by many international lending banks is the basic environmental impact of operations is measured benchmark SOCO has adopted.
As well as and a means of reducing emissions of, in representing good international practice, this particular, greenhouse gases.
The equity share approach has two key advantages: of the Companys non-operated emissions for 2006 was approximately 0.02 million tonnes SOCO is involved in developing countries of carbon dioxide equivalent, all of which comes and, in conjunction with joint venture partners, from its participation in Yemen.
would expect to raise loan finance from international aid donor agencies and Equator SOCO is committed to transparency in its Principles banks activities and would expect to set up projectIt should be more straightforward for SOCO dedicated websites for any major operated to agree, with governments and other critical activities.
These would be designed to manage stakeholders, a set of standards with wide communication with stakeholders, particularly international recognition rather than standards local communities, and to highlight employment with a proprietary component.
and contractor opportunities arising from direct operations as well as any indirect socioIn this context, SOCO has, during the last two economic activities.
years, raised a credit facility from the International Finance Corporation IFC, which is the private While World Bank guidelines will be the operating sector arm of the World Bank Group.
As part of benchmark, SOCO would expect to provide the due diligence process, IFC personnel visited information to the wider public, either in public all of SOCOs sites to assess our environmental reports or on the Company website, in line with and social management practice.
We intend to the guidance provided by the Global Reporting build on this relationship with the IFC, whose Initiative and other widely respected guidelines.
guidelines are in line with international best The Chief Executive is responsible to the Board practice, to ensure that operations in all of our for HSE and other CR performance.
He delegates projects meet high standards of environmental day-to-day responsibility for managing such issues and social management.
This will demonstrate a to the Group Operations and Production Manager, commitment to sustainable development through who is invited to all Board Meetings.
These issues the allocation of benefits to local communities in are reported to all Board Members in a monthly its area of operations in the form of the creation operations report and there is a Board agenda of jobs, the creation and expansion of local item which addresses all significant HSE and infrastructure, support for local primary education CR issues.
and support for training and capacity building for local personnel.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing all areas of corporate risk assessment on an The Company recognises the environmental annual basis and HSE CR is identified as a impact of emissions from both its operated specific issue for assessment.
The Senior and non-operated activities.
Currently, SOCO Independent Director, who has experience in the has nil operated emissions in terms of carbon relevant area, reviews HSE CR performance in dioxide equivalent.
However, as part of its growth detail with senior managers annually and is kept in operations, the Company is establishing a routinely informed of any material performance reporting mechanism through which the issues as they arise.
