As the UKs leading provider of elderly care services, we are supportive of a number of charities, including Action on Elder Abuse.
Corporate, Social Responsibility Our local focus helps us to deliver a quality service to our residents, support our staff and interact with the local community.
Community Workplace Southern Cross provides financial support to our Care Centres so Southern Cross is committed to the principle of equal opportunity they can consolidate their position in the local community for the and opposes all forms of unfair or unlawful discrimination.
We benefit of service users, staff and the local community.
intend to provide an environment that gives equality to all, irrespective of race, gender, disability, religion or sexual orientation.
Each of our individual Care Centres has its own ideas for community integration based on its knowledge of the local community.
Our Southern Cross has formed a partnership with the Royal College service users and staff work together to raise funds from raffles, of Nursing in a special project aimed at  fetes and coffee mornings all for good causes.
The objective of the project is to enhance the opportunities gone to improve the lives of our service users and a variety of and potential for development for such staff.
Through local colleges local causes championed by our Care Centres across the United we have been able to help our staff develop their skills and to train Kingdom.
Our sponsorship of local primary school football teams nurse mentors to pass these skills on to their colleagues.
Our approach is designed to encourage confidence building, competitiveness and healthy At the end of October 2006 10.0% of our workforce were living amongst young children.
non-UK nationals and 82.5% of our workforce were female.
During 2006, our people supported a number of charities including By understanding and valuing diversity, we are better placed to Alzheimer's Society, Children in Need, Macmillan Cancer Support, meet the needs of our service users.
Equal opportunities for all Royal National Institute for the Blind, Multiple Sclerosis Society and are embedded in all of our principles and practices.
Action on Elder Abuse, which was the featured charity for Southern Cross in 2006.
Our people raised 16,770 from various local events Harassment, bullying or any form of intimidation of our employees, around the country.
This was increased with a 50,000 donation clients, customers or suppliers is not acceptable at Southern Cross.
We are committed to providing a safe, secure and attractive environment for both our service users and our staff.
Our community involvement is focused on local initiatives where we can really make a difference to children and their schools and where we can bring communities together across the generations.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Business Review We know that the best care comes from a continuous commitment to training and creating a motivated and knowledgeable team.
Understanding and valuing diversity within our people puts us in a much better position to understand the needs of our clients.
Health and Safety We have also made significant efforts to improve the amount The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the health, safety of recycling that we undertake as a company.
We comply with and welfare of staff and service users.
The Group Operations regulations on the disposal of electrical and other materials.
We Director has responsibility at Board-level, for the Statement of are also making progress in how we dispose of our clinical waste, Intent to implement the Health and Safety Policy.
managing the transition from reliance on landfill disposal to incineration.
We have recently appointed a national supplier for the The Senior Operations Team SET, comprising the Group Operations collection of our trade waste and establishing a programme for Director, Managing Directors and other departmental heads, meets the responsible disposal and recycling of cardboard.
The variety of regularly and reviews the Health and Safety Strategy and Standards initiatives we have put in place reflects the scope of our business.
for the Group as set by the Central Health and Safety Committee.
From recyclable products for our copiers and printers, to recycling This group reviews the organisations health and safety performance waste cooking oil from our kitchens, we believe in doing what we regularly, ensuring that effective monitoring and reporting can to protect the environment.
procedures are in place to meet all relevant legislation and standards.
We will continue to make efforts to reduce the impact of the Group on the environment and to integrate environmental issues into our Environmental Issues existing business practices.
On a number of levels, we are working with our suppliers to develop a greener approach to the way we run our business.
To Marketplace that end, we have put in place a number of initiatives to decrease Southern Cross is committed to providing a quality service to our our energy consumption.
For example, we have installed smart service users and their families.
We are committed to extending the metering and on line energy reporting for the vast majority of our level of accessibility to our services and communications regardless Care Centres with a commitment to have all of our sites included of an individuals physical characteristics.
This system allows each site to be monitored and adjusted where necessary in our efforts to establish an Our service users needs are central to the services we provide.
efficient, structured energy management programme.
In addition, We actively look for their feedback and conduct regular surveys by the end of 2007 it is our plan to have one third of all of our to ensure we incorporate their views when defining our service.
As a matter of practice, when our Care Centres require replacement lighting bulbs they are automatically.
Our suppliers are regarded as partners.
Without our partners, we sent low energy versions.
would be unable to provide the quality of service that we do.
They are a vital part of our service delivery.
14 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Professional Ethics Regular staff reviews and feedback are incorporated into our Our philosophy of care is to provide the highest standard of person employment policies as standard.
specific care through a range of specialist services.
Our core values of privacy, dignity, independence, choice, rights and fulfilment are Our aim is to provide a supportive environment that recognises central to this philosophy.
diversity and encourages people to reach their full potential.
The objective of the Southern Cross Practice, Ethics, Education and Employees Corporate Responsibility Research Review Group is to ensure that all research and Our staff works hard to deliver a top-quality service and we procedures operate under and maintain the highest standards of recognise this contribution each year with the Southern Cross Care ethics.
The protection of the rights of our service users remain Awards.
Awards are presented at both a regional and national level paramount.
to individuals that demonstrate excellence in a number of categories.
Their colleagues, service users and service users families nominate Employment Policy individuals for awards.
We are committed to recruiting, retaining and motivating suitably qualified employees at all levels within the Group to ensure we Southern Cross provides a number of services to our people to help meet our business objectives.
Our employment policies and them in their daily lives.
The Company benefits scheme provides a procedures are designed to support these objectives.
range of special offers and discounts available to our people.
This includes special discounts on holidays, health club membership, car To that end, we have put together a competitive remuneration purchase and hire schemes, cinema visits and insurance services.
package which is reviewed regularly.
Our employee assistance line is available to all of our staff and Training and professional development are also part of this their families to offer them advice on stress related issues 24 hours package and all employees are encouraged to undertake suitable a day.
and appropriate training relevant to their individual needs and roles.
All managers are expected to undertake a programme of continued As part of the local community, our staff organises and takes part in professional development which includes the Registered Managers local fund raising opportunities generating funds for both local and Award.
In addition, all staff undergo a rigorous training programme national charities.
Southern Cross actively encourages this activity.
to ensure that they are able to comply with all regulatory requirements.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15
