Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 17 Corporate social responsibility statement We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical conduct has Employees an impact on our reputation.
We therefore take our corporate social The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre of responsibilities CSR seriously and are committed to advancing our employees and encourages their contribution and development.
policies and systems across the Group to ensure we address and An environment that fosters innovation and collaboration are critical monitor all aspects of CSR that are relevant to our business.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition include good ethical behaviour, concern for employee health and safety, programmes are developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
care for the environment and community involvement.
Employees are provided with numerous learning and development We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with all parties opportunities to full their potential.
A wide variety of both courses and who may have an interest in our activities including shareholders, training materials are available to employees both in the classroom customers, suppliers and employees.
We have an established investor and via the intranet.
These development opportunities are structured relations programme, conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys, to align with our organisational objectives and to help employees in monitor supplier performance and actively encourage feedback from furthering their career aspirations.
our employees using a variety of methods including employee surveys.
We maintain our website as one of the main routes for providing Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through several information to interested parties and for contacting us.
The Engineering Fellowship Programme honours the top technical talent within the organisation, The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed to connecting the best and the brightest of Spirents technical expertise.
developing and implementing appropriate policies while adhering to a The Spirit of Spirent Programme tracks outstanding service using fundamental commitment to create and sustain long term value for Spirents core values: customer focus, innovation, collaboration, shareholders.
As a Group driven largely by technological innovation, our contribution, continuous learning and ethics.
This Programme is main assets are the talents and skills of the people we employ.
The implemented across the Communications group to encourage and Board does not believe that, to date, the activities of the Group present reward significant contributions to Spirent by employees.
Furthermore, any significant environmental risks.
the Annual Innovation Awards Programme recognises all facets of contributions to Spirent, including outstanding sales, technical Ethics innovations and general business innovations.
Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is recognised all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
particularly as it relates to the business and its performance.
The leadership team is responsible for providing forums for employees to The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is understand the business objectives and to ask questions.
A variety of available on our website at www.
Our Ethics Policy has tools are utilised to foster two-way communications, including management been developed to ensure that the Groups business is conducted in meetings, all-hands employee meetings, the regular distribution of an adherence with high ethical and legal principles and sets standards employee newsletter, and the intranet.
In 2006 a revised induction of professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations programme was implemented to orient new employees to Spirent and worldwide.
The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy: to assure that they have the knowledge and tools to be successful.
all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that Leadership and management development programmes are regularly Spirents business is conducted with high ethical and legal principles: reviewed and updated as the competition for talented employees increases our policy is to operate within applicable laws: and the leadership needs of our business grow.
Formal performance reviews are conducted and are linked to the values of the organisation.
discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: and prospective employees without unlawful or unfair discrimination.
no bribes shall be given or received: Full support is given to the employment and advancement of disabled conicts of interest must be avoided: persons and this is reinforced through the Groups Ethics Policy.
we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities: and employees are encouraged and supported to report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups internal control process.
18 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Corporate social responsibility statement continued Business units are required to comply with Group policy and local Health and safety statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental The Chief Executive is the director appointed by the Board to have targets.
An annual environmental questionnaire is completed by each responsibility for the health and safety performance of the Group.
business unit which highlights their environmental performance.
The Health and Safety risk prole of the Group has improved following the divestment, in February 2006, of the HellermannTyton Division The vast majority of our products are now manufactured by outside which had a number of manufacturing sites.
Additionally, certain other contract manufacturers and we check the environmental policies of business units have moved to an outsourcing model which has again these suppliers through audits and surveys.
Wherever possible our improved the risk prole.
The main risks of the Group have now products are designed and manufactured to take account of the changed to being based more around working environment issues recycling and disposal of the product at the end of its lifecycle.
such as ergonomics and RSI.
Our businesses comply with both The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations the WEEE Regulations and The Restriction The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and management of health and safety on the local business unit Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 the RoHS Regulations.
management, who are supported by the Group Risk Manager and local Where possible, business units monitor energy consumption and all external advisers, where necessary.
business units continue to take positive steps to reduce energy It is the Groups intention that each business unit should have a senior consumption, such as better space utilisation and more efficient individual designated as being responsible for ensuring the business running of equipment and machinery.
unit conforms to local statutory health and safety regulations as well as Group policy.
All business units are responsible for providing employees Environmental waste management in the Group continues to improve with a written health and safety policy.
with most business units operating waste minimisation schemes mainly focusing on increased recycling.
Our corporate goal is for continuous improvement in the area of health The vacant site where historic activity had led to minor land and safety.
An annual internal report on our health and safety performance contamination is continuing to be remedied with full cooperation of the is collated from a questionnaire completed by all our business units.
The highlights of this report in respect of 2006 are: we had 135 incidents that required on-site First Aid, a significant Community decrease from 2005 and 2004: Spirent strives to be a responsible partner in the communities in which we operate, and we recognise the signicance of local communities we saw a decrease in ill health long term sickness levels with one through our Charitable Donations Policy.
Our businesses are case reported compared with three in 2005 and five in 2004: encouraged to support the particular needs of their population by we saw a reduction in accident frequency and severity: and contributing to local charities and participating in community initiatives.
Support takes the form of employee time and skills, gifts in kind and we had no accidents that required short term hospitalisation cash donations.
In 2006, Spirent made charitable cash donations of compared with three in 2005 and two in 2004.
Independent external reviews of the Companys health and safety performance are conducted annually at selected business units.
Our employees help their communities by volunteering their time to Regular designated health and safety awareness training programmes various programmes and donating materials and equipment to local are also carried out.
In 2006, we continued to support education by offering internships and work experience programmes.
We again participated The Groups health and safety performance and significant risk in a programme that introduces local high school students to jobs related exposures are reviewed regularly by management twice a year by the to engineering, including participation in exercises in job shadowing and Audit Committee and annually by the Board.
Through Junior Achievement, an organisation which educates young people about business, economics and free enterprise, we help Environmental raise funds for childrens education.
We also were involved in fund Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have raising activities for local concerns and community initiatives, such as on the environment are of great importance to Spirent.
The main aim food drives, collections and sponsored events that help organisations of Spirents Environmental Policy is to comply with local, state and provide food, clothing and childrens toys to people around the world.
national environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate Spirent continues to support all of our employees and businesses in and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
The full text of our nding new ways of becoming involved to help their communities.
Environmental Policy is available on our website at www.
