Corporate Responsibility As a global manufacturing company, a significant worldwide employer and with operations in all major markets, SSL takes social and environmental issues very seriously.
We also have an additional special obligation as the owner of the worlds largest and best known condom brand.
We demonstrate our commitment to corporate responsibility by behaving ethically, contributing to economic development and improving the quality of life of our employees, the local communities where we operate and society at large.
Last year, we set out our approach to corporate responsibility in our Corporate Responsibility Framework, which focuses on four core areas: Our People Our People Social Marketing Corporate Community Responsibility Environment Our People We have developed our people strategy to complement and support SSLs vision Successful Socially Community responsible Lively, our operating principles Attitude Behaviour Culture and to help achieve our Corporate Responsibility business objectives.
To ensure that we clearly communicate our people strategy we focus on four key Framework established to reflect areas: resourcing, reward, development and communication.
SSLs commitment to social and environmental issues.
Resourcing Our approach to resourcing addresses how we structure our teams to meet the immediate and long-term requirements of the business.
We have conducted a detailed review of our worldwide global senior management team and we have made some significant changes.
Through a combination of internal promotions and external recruitment, over 40 of our top 55 senior managers are new to their roles over the previous two years.
We are confident that we have a high calibre, professional team which is dedicated to driving long-term growth in our business.
Our next step is to ensure that we retain and motivate our high performance individuals.
With this in mind, we have started a talent management and succession planning initiative which will be cascaded down the organisation over the next two years.
We are committed to recognising and encouraging diversity in our workforce and collect data to give us greater transparency of our employee demographics across all markets.
We espouse the principle of equality of opportunity for all employees regardless of gender, race or age.
We aim to give people with a disability or who become disabled whilst in our employment the same opportunities for employment, training and career progression as other employees.
Development We have offered a wide range of learning opportunities for our employees throughout the year.
These initiatives have emphasised the need for everyone to gain a greater understanding of the different elements that drive success in our business.
To meet this need, we have developed a three-tier development model that incorporates business awareness sessions run by internal teams, lifestyle programmes that support our employees both inside and outside of their employment with SSL, and core modules focused on personal skills development.
Following a successful pilot in one of our European markets, we have now begun to implement this programme in our America and Asia Pacific regions whilst continuing to expand roll-out across other European markets.
Reward During 2004 05, we focused specifically on our reward strategy, creating tools that are designed to support a performance-driven culture and which are directly linked to the over-achievement of our business objectives.
Our approach recognises the need for flexibility to use the right reward mechanism at the right time through a combination that includes base pay, increased responsibilities, performance-based incentives and recognition within the business.
Total reward statements To give our employees visibility and greater understanding of their individual reward package, we introduced to give employees introduced our Total Reward Statements in 2005.
After a successful pilot implementation, encompassing greater visibility of their 1,000 employees, we will now extend this initiative further throughout the Group.
For our senior executives, a new variable pay model was implemented during the year that incorporates both shortand mediumto long-term performance targets.
This incentive programme is based on stretching targets that directly link to the Groups performance and, where appropriate, to the individuals specific business objectives.
This programme will continue to be developed in 2006 07 and beyond.
SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Responsibility 2006 Environment Social Marketing Communication A culture of open communication is key to a successful business.
Our internal strategy is designed to create a common identity across our commercial and manufacturing units worldwide.
It supports our vision, operating principles and business objectives, and aligns all communication channels so as to build awareness of opportunity around the Group.
We have created a toolbox to help make these objectives become relevant to employees worldwide.
This includes poster campaigns reinforcing the SSL vision and ABC operating principles, communication focus groups, Be Inspired, our employee magazine, and Insight the SSL intranet.
Be Inspired continues to be an important communication tool to create awareness of what is happening across our global operations.
We have successfully relaunched SSLs intranet, Insight in the UK.
Insight complements Be Inspired by focusing on local news and information requirements, such that the combination of the two communication tools addresses both global and local communication needs.
We have now started to implement Insight in Italy and during 2006 07 we anticipate a wider roll-out in our major markets and regional clusters.
Insight the SSL intranet, focusing on local market news In our European markets we have used employee opinion surveys covering areas such as communication, and information.
training and development, and teamworking.
This has provided a focus for our people strategy and given us a robust basis for measurement going forward.
This programme is being implemented in the rest of our global operations and we expect to have a global opinion survey in place by the end of the current year.
Social Marketing The Durex Network social marketing in action As the worlds leading condom manufacturer and a socially aware company SSL has a responsibility for helping to promote good sexual health practices across the globe.
We welcome recent changes to policy and attitudes on sexual health to encourage the use of condoms, in particular the reduction of VAT on condoms in the UK and the Vaticans new study into the role of condoms in helping to prevent the spread of HIV AIDS.
We work closely with international organisations, healthcare professionals, educators, charitable organisations and politicians, developing and supporting initiatives to help prevent unplanned pregnancies and the transmission of sexually transmitted infections STIs, including HIV AIDS.
In 2005 this activity was formalised under the umbrella of the Durex Network with the aim of raising Established to raise the awareness awareness of the safer sex message, promoting a prevention not cure ethos and profiling the importance of the safer sex message.
Sharing our resources The Durex Global Sex Survey provides us with a wealth of information and data.
In 2005, the survey benefited from upwards of 317,000 participants across 41 different countries, making it the largest study of its type in the world.
The Durex Networks ethos is simple information leads to knowledge which, in turn, leads to action.
With this principle, the Durex Network conducted an in-depth statistical analysis of responses to the 2005 Durex Global Sex Survey focusing specifically on responses to the question Have you ever had unprotected sex with a sexual partner without knowing their sexual history?
The results of this study formed the inaugural edition of The Face of Global Sex a report presenting a model to help countries predict rates of unprotected sex and enabling more effective targeting of finite resources towards improving sexual health.
The Face of Global Sex concluded with the recommendation that to be effective in addressing prevention policies and programmes, sex education would be beneficial if prioritised according to age and that the safer sex message should be re-emphasised to people once they have left the school environment for example, into the workplace and beyond.
The Face of Global Sex 2005 helping predict rates of 20 21 unprotected sex.
SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Responsibility 2006 Turning knowledge into action Using The Face of Global Sex as a stepping stone, the Durex Network has begun to implement social intervention initiatives to address this need.
In India, a country facing the largest HIV AIDS problem outside of sub-Saharan Africa, we have been working with the Global Business Coalition GBC and iEnergizer, a progressive call centre business in Delhi, to implement an attitudinal survey based on the framework of the Durex Global Sex Survey.
The results of this study are now being used to develop a social intervention programme to target people in the burgeoning South Asia call centre sector.
We believe that the best way to help develop awareness and understanding is to involve the target group of people.
The iEnergizer model embraces this principle, based on engagement with call centre workers providing them with the information and resources to improve their understanding of the issues surrounding safer sex.
Our work with iEnergizer builds on a heritage of Durex involvement in social intervention programmes around the world.
Durex was a founding partner of the Program H intervention in Brazil.
Program H was initially launched to tackle attitudes to gender and equality among young men in the Favelas of Rio fide Janeiro, while raising awareness of HIV AIDS and the need to use condoms consistently and correctly.
Durexs involvement in this intervention has now expanded to include increased focus on lifestyle, social marketing and the development of the Hora H social marketing condom brand.
Hora H has successfully championed positive attitudes, built confidence in negotiating condom use among young people and has encouraged a way of life that advocates respect for ones self and for others whilst being hip and cool.
The Durex Network has a role as a conduit for sharing best practice initiatives.
Following the success of Program H in Latin America, we joined with the Population Council and Instituto Promundo to extend this social intervention into India.
Alongside the Committee for Resource Organisation CORO, a local NGO with a commitment towards promoting health education to young people, we started a four-month pilot programme called Yaari Dosti, a term meaning friendship or bonding between male friends.
This involved sessions which encouraged young men to express their ideas about masculinity, sexuality, gender-based violence and HIV AIDS, among other topics.
Following the successful completion of the pilot, Yaari Dosti was formally launched in Mumbai in January 2006.
Yaari Dosti community A major research study has been formulated to measure attitude and behaviour change, replicating the programme in Mumbai, India.
success of activities undertaken in Brazil.
Partnership working in action The belief that the safer sex message needs to be communicated to young people in a stimulating, effective and informative way also led Durex to become the founding sponsor of Dance4Life, the youth brand of the World AIDS Campaign.
Dance4Life uses movement and dance to raise awareness of HIV and AIDS among young people worldwide, involving them in a broad range of initiatives from dance events to educational projects.
Dance4Life communicating the safer sex message.
SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Responsibility 2006 A primary goal for the programme is to involve one million young people worldwide by 2012 all dressed in white and dancing in unity to mark World Aids Day.
Combined with innovative school projects, campaigning and television programming, this will provide a powerful global statement that will work towards breaking down silence and taboos around HIV AIDS.
Community SSL has operations in over 35 countries and employs around 4,500 people worldwide.
We look to support the local communities in which we operate and in which our employees live and work by investing resources through charitable donations and employees time and skills.
Support to charities In addition to charitable support provided through our social marketing activities, SSL has provided both practical assistance and donations to significant global activities.
SSL International has worked closely with an American-based charity, World Emergency Relief, in ensuring that donations of over 10,000 pairs of Scholl shoes reached the refugees of war-torn Uganda.
Our business based in Italy, Sweden, Hungary and Spain, amongst others, have participated.
We aim to support our employees in their own charitable activities through sponsorship and allowing time off from work for training and participation in events.
In the UK, SSL is a patron of the Outward Bound Trust, an organisation which provides the opportunity to young people to develop their self-confidence, team-building and leadership skills through participation in challenging outdoor activities.
In March 2006, a small group of SSL employees participated in an activityfilled weekend to raise funds for the organisation.
CSR indices SSL has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices DJSI for the last four years.
DJSI benchmarks the financial performance of companies that lead their sector in terms of corporate sustainability, looking at a number of factors including corporate governance, labour practices and environmental performance.
In addition, SSL is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, which is designed to measure the performance of SSL employees supporting the companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Environment SSL is continuing to make progress against the environmental objectives that we set ourselves.
In order to make further progress over the coming year, we recognise that it is necessary to improve our understanding of material use and environmental emission patterns in order to identify opportunities for improvement.
Also, at a strategic level we are currently evaluating the wider environmental impacts of our business activities to define our environment programme and to establish our future objectives.
Further information on our environmental performance can be found in the Environment Report 2005 06 on SSLs website, www.
Eric Folliot, OTC Brand Manager, running the 2006 Flora London Marathon raising funds for muscular dystrophy.
22 23 SSL International plc Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Responsibility 2006
