ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 26 Corporate Social Responsibililty Against a backdrop of increased international expansion, safety, the environment and the well being of our employees all remain a - priority and, in 2006, we further developed our procedures and policies to ensure we meet the challenges which arise in these key areas.
Since our decision to adopt the principles of the United Safe2Lead is recognised as a world-class initiative Nations Global Compact and prepare our first CSR in the industry and continues to be the focus of our Report we have focused our attention on specific efforts to improve performance.
The programme cost aspects of our core values.
Initially, our main efforts $2 million to develop and in 2006 over 300 personnel for improvement were in Health & Safety and from 21 different geographical operational locations Environmental Stewardship.
However, our CSR completed the programme.
Benchmarking Study in 2003 identified the need In 2007 we will continue this successful programme, to improve the Groups performance in other areas.
running 20 courses throughout the year.
There are In 2005, we reported on our progress in the overall also plans to deliver Safe2Lead in Russian, Arabic development of management systems and in providing and German.
greater direction to our staff in areas of business ethics.
All country managers, area managers and KCA Valuing all People has been our key driver in 2006.
DEUTAG directors will have participated in the Local Schools Project: Dhaka This was not only to fit in with our core values, Safe2Lead programme by the end of 2007 and we but also to help alleviate one of the key business will also be introducing a system to follow-up on In Bangladesh KCA DEUTAG is pressures facing our industry today, i. e. the shortage supporting a voluntary organised local individual action plans stemming from the programme.
Our response has been to continue school project in Dhaka by hiring the building, school materials and teachers.
our policy of recruiting local people at our operating Environmental Stewardship sites and providing them with high levels of training In our primary role of managing drilling operations and support.
This has also involved increasing the for clients, our responsibilities for environmental awareness and implementation of all our Health management are primarily related to site preparation, & Safety, environmental and business ethics waste management and atmospheric emissions from policies and procedures.
We undertake environmental risk assessments and site appraisals as standard in all our Health & Safety operations.
These assessments are discussed with Whilst we continued to remain well inside the IADC clients to assist with the identification of new ways industry benchmark for Health & Safety, our 2006 to improve the environmental performance of the safety performance was similar to that in 2005 with operation as a whole, through the preparation and a Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR of 1.05, implementation of site specific environmental plans.
falling short of the 0.8 target we set out in the 2006 HSE Plan.
It was however significantly lower In 2006 we targeted environmental audits and than the industry average of 2.19. inspections at our locations around the world in order to benchmark current performance and identify We achieved our target of training 35% of our areas for improvement.
The results of these audits International Youth Festival supervisors based on the number of supervisors will be used to improve our environmental processes we employed at the beginning of the year on and procedures during 2007.
KCA DEUTAG supported talented our Safe2Lead safety and leadership training 15-year-old Azerbaijani musicians Zahra programme by the end of 2006.
Yusifli and Mustafa Ahmed Ashurov, to perform at Aberdeens International Youth Festival in August 2006.
Corporate Social Responsibililty - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 26 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 27 Nationalisation Nationalisation programmes are key to our success in overseas markets.
We are committed to investing 1.05 2.19 in the recruitment and training of local personnel in all our Abbot Group Industry Average operations worldwide.
Health & Safety Whilst we continued to remain well inside the IADC industry benchmark for Health & Safety, our 2006 safety performance was similar to that in 2005 with a Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR of 1.05, falling short of the 0.8 target we set out in the 2006 HSE Plan.
It was however significantly lower than the industry average of 2.19.
Valuing All People Business Ethics We endeavour to employ local people wherever Our continuing membership of the FTSE4Good index possible in all of our operations.
To support our local provides an independent assessment of our success workforce, we undertake a variety of activities aimed in working towards compliance with standards at personal development through training at all levels relating to environmental sustainability, anti-corruption, of the business.
Our commitment to the principles of the UN Global In 2005, we rolled out new guidance to assist our Compact provides the basis for our policies and employees with implementing our business ethics procedures to ensure consistent labour standards policies.
The past year has seen the implementation throughout the Group.
This also sets the standards of the guidance throughout the organisation.
Technical Training for areas such as: Application of the policies and procedures is the responsibility of the business unit directors through Employing the best people to meet our requirements Our Nigerian operation has partnered local plans.
Performance is reviewed regularly at without discrimination in any form with Mercedes-Benz Anambra Motor Executive Board meetings and reviewed as part Manufacturing Company Ltd. to Recognition of the right of the worker to of Group audit plans.
provide technical training to KCA DEUTAGs mechanics and electricians.
freedom of association and collective bargaining Our inductions and training programmes include whilst recognising local culture, customs and ensuring that all employees are aware of our legislative framework expectations, policies and procedures to ensure human rights and ethical behaviour.
Prohibiting the use of forced, compulsory or child labour.
Michael J. L. Salter We work closely with communities local to our Chief Operating Officer, 16 March 2007 operations, supporting projects that focus on education, training and skills development, as well as those that improve social and economic opportunities for local people.
Well Control School: Libya In 2006 we opened our Drilling and Well Control School in Tripoli, Libya to train and certify KCA DEUTAG drilling supervisory staff.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Corporate Social Responsibililty 27
