The Group Safety Index compares safety Corporate social responsibility performance across Tate & Lyle.
This is a weighted average of injuries sustained in For Tate & Lyle, corporate social responsibility equates to applying our four core values the workplace, with more severe incidents safety, integrity, knowledge and innovation to the way we run our business.
A decrease in the means continuous progress in achieving the highest standards of safety: considering index reflects improved performance.
Our the environmental impact of every aspect of what we do: and treating our employees, target is zero for every Tate & Lyle operation.
suppliers and the communities in which we work as long-term partners.
Benchmarking results The US and Europe compile safety statistics Putting these concerns at the centre of our business requires proactive management differently and therefore it is difficult to at the highest levels within the Company.
The Board reviews Tate & Lyles policies and compare results.
However, we can compare performance annually, and the Chief Executive is the Board member accountable for all the performance of each of our divisions aspects of corporate social responsibility.
with results from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Again this year, our divisions are This report covers our performance in calendar year 2005, sets out plans for the future outperforming the average reported standard and explains how we manage corporate social responsibility to the benefit of both for their peers in their respective sectors and Tate & Lyle and our partners.
in the US private sector as a whole.
Managing safety Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy workplace for our people requires effective, proactive management.
Constantly to providing a safe workplace for all our Safety improving our safety results requires: employees.
Compared with the 2004 calendar year results: Tate & Lyle has no higher priority than safety, Changing behaviour by encouraging which we believe is fundamental to running Group safety index improved by 39.4%: a safety culture at all of our locations: a successful business.
Every year we Auditing safety performance: Recordable injury rate injury requiring strengthen our commitment to ensure safe treatment beyond first aid improved Rewarding improved safety performance and healthy conditions for our employees, with local safety awards, divisional Most by 12.9%: contractors and visitors.
By reporting, Lost-time accident rate recordable Improved Plant and Group-wide Safety recognising and rewarding safety First awards: accidents sufficiently severe to result performance, we ensure that all our in lost workdays or to restrict the Sharing information and best practice operations focus on continuous amongst all our locations: employees ability to perform his her improvement.
job, counted from the first day of Improving communication on safety issues throughout the Group: and incapacitation improved by 22.6%: and Employee safety Severity rate number of workdays lost The active involvement of senior Calendar year 2005 results executives in auditing and promoting due to injuries improved by 45.7%.
For the third consecutive year, safety safety.
Rates are based on 200,000 employee performance across Tate & Lyle improved hours worked.
in all categories, reflecting our commitment Benchmarking safety: recordable injury rate Benchmarking safety: lost-time accident rate Group safety index US industry statistics as reported by US industry statistics as reported by US Bureau of Labor Statistics US Bureau of Labor Statistics 8.20 5.60 5.80 1.26 0.72 12.20 4.13 2.08 1.90 1.50 0.40 0.07 0.51 3.00 0.28 1.21 3.75 4.07 3.51 2.84 1.72 US Industry US Industry 1.40 4.80 AB C D E F G H AB C D E F G H 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 A US Food Manufacturing A US Food Manufacturing The smaller the index, the better the performance B US Grain Milling B US Grain Milling C US Corn Refiners C US Corn Refiners D Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas D Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas E Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe E Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe F US Sugar Industry F US Sugar Industry G Tate & Lyle Sugars, Americas G Tate & Lyle Sugars, Americas H Tate & Lyle Sugars, Europe H Tate & Lyle Sugars, Europe Number of injuries per 200,000 employee hours requiring Rate of recordable accidents per 200,000 employee hours Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 35 more than first aid sufficiently serious to result in lost workdays or restricted work activities OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Achievements and awards begin to assess progress.
Compared with Working together is very important for Most of Tate & Lyles locations equalled or the 2004 calendar year results: improving standards, but ultimately we will improved their 2004 performance, including dismiss contractor organisations if they do Contractor safety index improved 29 that reported no lost-time accidents and not demonstrate the same commitment to by 3.7%: 11 that reported no recordable injuries for improving safety as does Tate & Lyle.
Recordable injury rate improved the year.
An important part of managing by 38.4%: safety is our annual World Class Safety Outlook Lost-time accident rate improved Excellence awards programme.
To qualify 2005 has been a year of transition in terms by 19%: and for entry, plants must: of developing programmes to improve Severity rate increased by 1%.
Our focus in 2006 will be Operate the entire year without lost-time: Benchmarking results to bring contractor safety standards closer Have active employee participation in Contractor safety continues to compare well to the high standards of employee safety their safety programme: with the US Bureau of Labor Statistics 2004 we are achieving at Tate & Lyle.
At the Have an active auditing programme: and the most recent data available.
The Bureau same time, while we are pleased with our Demonstrate adherence to Tate & Lyles reports the overall recordable injury rate per continuing progress in employee safety, standards during executive, management 200,000 employee hours for US contractors we recognise that there is always room for and network audits.
to be 6.10 against 2.18 at Tate & Lyle, and improvement.
By continuing our drive for a Calendar year 2005 winners were: the overall lost-time accident rate to be safe workplace as highlighted in this report, 2.00 against our 1.32. we are determined to improve our record Large plant over 250,000 employee still further in future years.
hours per year Managing safety Europe: Lisbon, Portugal While there have been improvements in Americas: McIntosh, USA.
some aspects of contractor safety this Benchmarking contractor safety: Small plant less than 250,000 employee year, the standards are not yet on a par recordable injury rate hours per year with those of Tate & Lyle employees.
The US industry statistics as reported by Europe: Plaistow, UK death of two contractors in October 2005 US Bureau of Labor Statistics Americas: Houlton, USA.
in Razgrad, Bulgaria, is a reminder that we 2.18 6.10 Most improved safety performance can never let up on our drive for safety for Europe: Nisasta, Turkey all those who work at our sites.
contractor safety is more of a challenge because Tate & Lyle does not directly Tate & Lyle has also received external supervise the employees of contractors: recognition for safety: the state of Alabama however, many of our sites are beginning to honoured our McIntosh, USA, plant with work more closely with contractors on safety their Safety Achievement Award for issues see Commercial partners suppliers outstanding safety performance in 2005. on page 38 for more details on how one of our divisions is working to improve Contractor safety A B contractor safety, and we hope to see Calendar year 2005 results improvements in contractor safety A Tate & Lyle 2005 is the second year we have collected B US Industry performance in future years as a result.
contractor safety statistics so we can now Number of injuries per 200,000 employee hours requiring more than first aid Contractor safety index Benchmarking contractor safety: lost-time accident rate US industry statistics as reported by US Bureau of Labor Statistics 1.03 1.25 8.20 14.8 0.00 4.61 8.57 21.42 42.21 5.32 5.29 2.86 1.65 2.05 1.32 2.00 A A B B C C D D E E F F G G 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 A B A Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas E Tate & Lyle Sugars, Europe A Tate & Lyle B Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe F Citric Acid B US Industry C Tate & Lyle Sucralose G Nghe An Tate & Lyle Sugar Company Vietnam D Tate & Lyle Sugars, Americas Rate of recordable accidents per 200,000 employee hours sufficiently serious to result in lost workdays or restricted The smaller the index, the better the performance work activities 36 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 projects are complete, we expect to return Environment Group energy index to decreasing the amount of non-hazardous 0.89 0.85 0.83 0.84 0.81 waste we produce.
Tate & Lyles environmental policy is for all our operations to be conducted in light Violation, abatement and of our responsibilities towards the natural compliance orders environment in which we live and work, and The vast majority of our operations to comply with relevant laws, regulations and completed 2005 without incident.
Where consents, which may vary from location to Tate & Lyle inadvertently contravened location.
The Board reviews environmental regulations, incidents were minor and we performance and the policy annually.
reacted immediately to correct the problems.
Tate & Lyle continues to subscribe to the 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 principles of the International Chamber Managing environmental impacts of Commerces Business Charter for Managing environmental impacts is very The smaller the index, the better the performance.
In accordance important at Tate & Lyle.
Environmental with Group policy, all locations fully integrate risks are included in the Group-wide risk environmental management into their management process, and are reviewed Group water index operational systems and procedures.
For more information, see the sections on Risk 0.89 0.83 0.81 0.79 0.80 Environmental impacts are many and varied.
Factors on pages 24 and 25 and When reviewing our environmental footprint, Corporate Governance on page 52. it has always been Tate & Lyles policy to focus particularly on those impacts which Measuring data have most effect on the environment and To manage our environmental footprint to the over which we have direct control.
Our three benefit of the environment and the Company most significant environmental impacts are, we collect detailed data and report results in order of magnitude, energy use, water use from each operating unit quarterly, using and non-hazardous solid waste production.
a comprehensive system that has been Energy use is by far our most significant validated by our Internal Audit department.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 impact, and we therefore give it the highest We then normalise the data to reflect the The smaller the index, the better the performance.
Managing our impacts for a positive amount of product manufactured.
This result is good for the environment and also protects the commercial sensitivities of the brings economic benefits to Tate & Lyle.
data while allowing us to report publicly on our progress, and make comparisons Group non-hazardous solid waste index Calendar year 2005 results between years.
The data is then aggregated 1.12 1.03 1.07 1.17 1.26 Energy consumption reduced by 3.6%.
to create a single set of indices for the Water consumption increased by 1.3%.
Group, adjusted to take account of Non-hazardous waste production acquisitions and disposals.
Training We focus our measurement and our Employees receive regular training on improvement efforts on the areas that have managing environmental impacts and most environmental and financial impact.
changes in legislation, so that they are always For example, on the 2005 energy bill, every aware of the issues.
Many operating units 1% improvement in our energy index offers have environmental management committees a cost saving estimated at 1.9 million.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 that meet regularly to discuss progress.
An equivalent improvement in the water index The smaller the index, the better the performance.
offers a saving of some 145,000, while Customers and suppliers a 1% improvement in the non-hazardous We work closely with our customers to waste index saves around 30,000. ensure our systems meet their requirements.
We are therefore pleased to report that We brief all contractors on key environmental Outlook energy consumption, our most significant issues to make sure that we are managing The production of value added products impact both environmentally and our environmental impact effectively and, for our customers consumes considerable economically, showed a good reduction on a in the UK, we have begun working with energy.
Our ongoing challenge is to reduce per unit basis of 3.6%, beating our Group contractors to help them improve business environmental impacts, energy in particular, target of 3.0% per annum.
Non-hazardous efficiency and decrease their impact while growing the business and developing waste production has increased this year on the environment see Commercial these products.
We will continue to manage due to major construction projects under partners suppliers on page 38 for our environmental footprint as efficiently way in a number of locations, for example, more details.
as possible, ensuring that we build our new plant in Singapore and expansions environmental concerns into our processes at two of our plants in the US.
Once these as we develop new products.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 37 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED measures to help them adapt to these new Employee health and Commercial circumstances.
This is a direct negotiation wellbeing partners suppliers between the countries themselves and the Commission.
However, we have stressed At Tate & Lyle, we aim to lead the way in Long-term, good relationships with our that these packages must be wholly employee health.
Programmes will differ partners and suppliers are very important adequate, correctly targeted, and efficiently across the Group according to local needs, at Tate & Lyle.
We have a consistent, delivered in a timely way.
but all are based on the principle that the Group-wide approach, based on our Information about the impact on Tate & Lyle Company has a role to play in helping Code of Conduct, which covers purchasing of changes to the EU sugar regime are employees improve their health by providing strategies at global, regional and local levels.
described in the Chief Executives Review information and advice on all aspects of We pride ourselves on our supply chain on page 11. health and wellbeing.
ethics, and are committed to sharing best practice and improving standards Safety and environment programmes Calendar year 2005 highlights amongst suppliers.
Reflecting our commitment to sharing best UK practice and improving standards amongst Tate & Lyles UK occupational health Calendar year 2005 highlights suppliers, Sugars, Europe, has begun to programme has been acknowledged as Auditing involve commercial partners in both safety a model of excellence by the UK National Managing supplier relationships for the and environment programmes.
The Department of Health benefit of both parties requires regular, is using our programme, which includes consistent auditing.
We continue to develop Safety health promotion activities, an occupational our supplier audit system, paying closer Monthly safety meetings: all contractors health clinic, advice on healthy eating and attention to supply chain ethics, while our are now invited to send a representative counselling services, as an example of best risk management programme focuses on to our monthly safety meetings, with each practice to launch the Departments new supply chain risks at a strategic level.
contractor organisation taking it in turn initiative, Business Communities of Health.
The host contractor gives Raw materials suppliers a presentation on how their organisation Our programme also won Silver in the Across the Group we have long-standing manages safety, and explains what they employee health and wellbeing initiatives and mutually beneficial relationships with can offer Tate & Lyle in terms of good category at the UKs Food and Drink our growers of sugar cane, sugar beet, practice.
The meeting serves as a general Federation Community Partnership Awards, maize and wheat.
We apply rigorous learning session for everyone, sharing which recognise the UK food and drink standards to our raw materials suppliers, best practice between contractor sectors commitment to the community.
and survey many of them on their ethical organisations as well as with Tate & Lyle.
We work closely with them to Europe Behavioural auditing: Tate & Lyle has ensure compliance with our needs, Many of our mainland Europe plants introduced behavioural safety auditing implementing traceability and ensuring that offer similar health programmes to the UK.
for contractors, using our own system.
our customers requirements over issues Programmes include Company-sponsored Each contractor group now performs such as genetic modification are fully met.
fitness programmes: health and wellbeing three audits per month.
awareness campaigns: healthy menu In June 2005, we strengthened our STOP: this year Tate & Lyle offered STOP options in employee restaurants and annual commitment to improving practices in Safety Training Observation Programme health and fitness check-ups.
the raw sugar supply chain by hosting to contractors for the first time.
One the first meeting of Better Sugar, Better contractor organisation will begin running Americas Business, a joint IFC International Finance the programme as a pilot in 2006, and it Throughout North America, Tate & Lyle Corporation WWF Worldwide Fund will then be rolled out to others, who will offers an outsourced counselling service, for Nature initiative on improving the run it with Tate & Lyle facilitating.
the Employee Assistance Programme, environmental and social impacts of cane Awards: each month we have a to employees and their families.
Since that meeting, the initiative contractor award for safety, in addition plants offer exercise facilities or Companyhas formed a steering group, of which to our employee award.
We have also sponsored fitness programmes.
In Decatur, Tate & Lyle is a member, and the group set up a contractors annual safety Illinois for example, Tate & Lyle has a Healthy is now drafting its terms of reference.
league table to encourage them to Lifestyles Task Force run by employee improve performance.
volunteers which plans and implements a In previous reports we have highlighted the Contractor passports: Tate & Lyle has variety of activities to promote health and long-term relationship we have with suppliers signed up to the Construction Industry fitness such as an annual health fair, of raw sugar for our European Union EU Training Boards passport scheme, flu vaccinations, exercise programmes refining business, acting as a conduit for the which has been introduced as a and regular presentations on a variety EUs policy of providing advantageous prices requirement for contractors in certain of health-related topics.
Clearly, the reduction in construction and manufacturing roles.
prices agreed by the EU under the new Under the scheme, contractors complete Outlook sugar regime will significantly reduce this a training course on the fundamentals of While our occupational health programmes benefit to our suppliers.
The African, safety in construction and manufacturing, will continue to be managed locally to meet Caribbean and Pacific ACP countries and receive a passport to certify that they employees needs, in 2006 we aim to share are currently in discussion with the EU can work at any site that requires one.
ideas and best practice more widely across Commission on a package of accompanying Tate & Lyle.
38 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 This system is an efficient way of on a range of issues.
We will continue Americas: American Red Cross, Millikin ensuring that each individual contractor to develop our supplier audit programme University, Community Foundation of has the necessary safety training to to ensure consistently high standards across Decatur: and work on our sites, and makes it easier the Group.
Vietnam: Road-building programme, for contractors to certify their suitability housing support programme for local for a job.
communities, For the future support Communities for schools programme.
Environment Tate & Lyle joined with UK organisation Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in all Key achievements Envirowise to set up a programme to help the communities in which we operate.
Over Tate & Lyle employees around the world suppliers improve their business efficiency the years we have developed a Group-wide make huge efforts to support their local by minimising waste and maximising cost community involvement policy that forms communities.
Here we highlight just some savings.
A group of suppliers attended the one of the core components underpinning of the great stories from each region.
launch workshop at Thames Refinery, and our ethical behaviour.
Our programme are now benefiting from practical plans for UK involves building long-term relationships their businesses covering a range of Educational visits: 850 students, up with local partners to deliver a shared subjects from waste management and from 660 last year, and 95 teachers objective: establishing strong, safe and minimisation and packaging optimisation visited our locations during 38 healthy communities by investing time to environmental management systems curriculum-based visits.
and resources into projects that directly and  procurement.
Citizenship Week: 23 schools, up from address local needs.
17 last year, participated in a range Our community partnerships are very well Sustainable procurement of citizenship activities during this supported by employees, many of whom We are reviewing procurement to look Tate & Lyle-sponsored event.
take part in local community programmes.
at how Tate & Lyle can encompass Ideas Factory at Tate Britain: 180 These benefit our employees by enhancing sustainability more fully in our strategies.
Newham primary school children their own local communities, offering As part of that process, we have signed completed the six-month project that significant personal development up to the Mayor of Londons Green uses original works of art to improve opportunities and making Tate & Lyle a Procurement Code, an initiative to help language and literacy skills, supported company for which they are proud to work.
companies based in London to identify by 15 employee volunteers.
best practice in recycling waste and Europe excluding UK Calendar year 2005 highlights buying products manufactured from Bulgaria: Tate & Lyle continued Charitable donations recycled materials.
to support the development of a Our Corporate Donations Committee rehabilitation centre in Razgrad for oversees community policy throughout the Managing suppliers: Tate & Lyles social integration of children needing world in order to improve internal standards, Business Code of Conduct special care, donating further funds select projects that target local needs and Tate & Lyles Business Code of Conduct for its expansion.
deliver the most positive impact, and to applies unconditionally to all parts of the France: Tate & Lyle sponsored the ensure that ultimately our community wholly-owned Group, and we also aim to local Telethon, a one-day event in involvement work reflects our broader apply the Code in those operations in which France devoted to raising money responsibilities as a company.
Our guidelines we have a 50% stake or more.
Where we for research into genetic diseases.
for funding and support are: Education have a minority stake, we encourage our Slovakia: Tate & Lyle donated money 50%: Environment 25%: Health 15%: partners to adopt the Code.
In contracting to support local disabled people, Arts 10%.
rounds with suppliers and when issuing including wheelchair purchase and purchase orders, we attach the Code of In the financial year to 31 March 2006, and guide dog sponsorship.
Conduct, and require them to notify us Tate & Lyles total worldwide charitable immediately if they have any issues with it.
Our total Every division within Tate & Lyle must Project Success: Tate & Lyle global pro bono contribution in goods and confirm twice a year that the Code is being supported this innovative programme services is estimated to have been 193,000, communicated to suppliers, and report any in Decatur and Macon County that up from 188,000 in the previous year.
Suppliers who persistently helps children succeed at school.
We support many local organisations contravene the Code may be faced with University of Illinois: Tate & Lyle involved in community activities all round termination of their contracts.
supports a number of research the world.
Listed here are the top three initiatives at the University of Illinois, in each region in 2005: Outlook the states flagship university.
In 2006, we aim to continue to improve City of Loudon: Tate & Lyle provided UK: Tate Britain, London Bombings standards in our supply chain through funding for the Tate & Lyle Performing Relief Charitable Fund, Community Links: developing our work on supply chain Arts Center in Loudons Municipal Europe excluding UK : Razgrad Disabled ethics, risk management and sustainable Park.
The Center hosts a variety of Childrens Centre Bulgaria, Telethon for procurement, and by working increasingly musical and theatrical performances.
genetic disease research France, Union closely with suppliers to share best practice of Blind People Slovakia : Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 39 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED cannot achieve.
Of the organisations we Outlook Community spend by allocation for financial year 2006 support, several have been partners for Our aim for the coming year continues to over a decade and our employees join their be to integrate our community efforts around committees, advocate their causes in the the world into one global programme.
While Education 49% wider community and provide mentoring work continued in 2005 to share expertise Environment 19% and business skills.
between locations where we have longHealth 23% running, successful partnerships with local Arts 9% Volunteering also brings benefits to organisations with our newer operations, Tate & Lyle.
Employees tell us that they there is still work to be done to ensure that benefit hugely from community work, which wherever we operate, Tate & Lyle makes helps them develop their skills and become Excludes donation made to the London Bombings Relief a positive contribution and is a valued part more rounded as individuals.
A strong Charitable Fund of the local community.
volunteer network is vital to the success of our community involvement programme, and developing that network across Tate & Lyle Vietnam is an important ongoing aim.
Support programmes for local community schools.
Rural housing project to improve living standards in local communities.
UK community survey results Again this year we sent out a questionnaire with our UK Community Involvement Report.
Responses from the questionnaire showed Results of 2005 UK Community Involvement Report survey: that our performance continues at its how Tate & Lyles community performance is rated % traditionally high level.
Our willingness to support community partners was rated 95 92 95 98 95 95 100 98 95 95 97 95 at 98%, while some 58% of respondents reported an improved capability to help their target cause, with the same number reporting an improvement in their facilities or environment.
Managing our impact Our aim is to ensure that our Community Involvement Policy, ratified by the Board, A A A A B B B B C C C C is followed wherever we operate.
While 2002 2003 2004 2005 2002 2003 2004 2005 2002 2003 2004 2005 we made progress in 2005 in developing A Efficiency of response community activities in all our locations, B Willingness to support there remain different levels of community C Contribution to the community activity in our various geographical locations, reflecting the history of Tate & Lyles involvement in the area.
Results of 2005 UK Community Involvement Report survey: how Tate & Lyles support created additional value % Our global Corporate Donations Committee, 67 59 58 50 59 52 29 45 39 54 41 58 13 32 30 which oversees community policy, will continue to share best practice and improve internal standards and reporting across Tate & Lyle to ensure that in future, all parts of the Group develop mutually beneficial long-term community partnerships.
Employee volunteering The time and effort our employees spend on community involvement work is vital to A A A B B B C C C D D D E E E 2003 2004 2005 2003 2004 2005 2003 2004 2005 2003 2004 2005 2003 2004 2005 maintaining the long-term good relationships we have developed with the communities in A Improved capability to help target cause B Raised profile which we operate: volunteering brings skills C Wider network of contacts volunteers and experience from the workplace into the D Improved facilities environment community that corporate funding alone E Improved staff motivation 40 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 Awards We never embark on any activity with the Community Prosperity Award USA specific aim of winning an award, however, The US communities of Lafayette, Indiana we value the recognition by experts in the and Loudon, Tennessee presented awards field that such awards represent.
Moreover, to Tate & Lyle recognising corporate and awards can help to support the reputation individual contributions to the areas.
The of the business and offer an opportunity Loudon County Economic Development to highlight and celebrate success.
Agency presented Tate & Lyle with Over the past year we have received a PEAK Performance, Excellence, a range of awards for our support for Achievement and Knowledge award, and local communities.
the Lafayette West Lafayette Community Prosperity Award was awarded to the Food and Drink Federation Community Lafayette South and Sagamore plants Partnership Awards 2006 UK for their positive impact on the Tate & Lyle won two awards, Gold in the local community.
Community category for our education support, and Silver in the Workplace Purdue University Award USA Community incorporating Healthy Tate & Lyle received an award from Workplace Initiatives category, for our Purdue University, Indiana for making employee occupational health programme.
a significant contribution to their agriculture and engineering programmes.
Employee Rewards & Benefits Company donations were used to establish Awards 2006 UK a food carbohydrate laboratory in the Tate & Lyle was a finalist in the Most Department of Food Science in the College Effective Health Strategy category, for our of Agriculture.
employee health and wellbeing programme.
Henrique Salgado Award Portugal Newham Education Business A team from Lisbon, Portugal, was placed Partnership UK second out of 3,000 companies in the Tate & Lyle was awarded a certificate Henrique Salgado Award competition from the Newham Education Business which recognises companies for their Partnership in recognition of the strong emphasis on developing industrial outstanding support given to the health and safety activities.
Partnership and the young people of Newham.
The operating and financial review was approved on 24 May 2006 on behalf of the Board by: Iain Ferguson Simon Gifford Stanley Musesengwa Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Operating Officer Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2006 41
