Directors report Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility Colorado Senator, Ken Salazar left, a member of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, views the CabRunner system during a visit to Gates in Denver.
Our commitment Developments in 2006 As a Group, we believe in the importance of social responsibility We are committed to improving the scope and quality of our CSR in our business practices and the part it plays in our success.
programme and raising the standard of our external reporting.
In Corporate social responsibility CSR underpins the way keeping with this commitment, we instigated a number of changes we go about our business and reflects our cultural values: during the course of the year relating to our CSR programme.
entrepreneurship, quality, innovation, customer service, As a first step, we appointed a dedicated CSR manager to oversee continuous improvement and citizenship.
our internal programme and external CSR reporting.
This was We seek to achieve the highest possible standards throughout followed by a review of our existing programme and reporting the Group, consistent with our obligations to our employees, together with the identification of our key stakeholders and risks.
customers, suppliers, providers of capital and the communities This has resulted in a more formalised structure for gathering in which we operate, all whilst providing an acceptable return information across the Group as well as more comprehensive to shareholders.
These standards, together with our policies, CSR reporting.
are applied uniformly across the Group, irrespective of location.
Going forward, our reporting on specific CSR matters will be Each company in the Group is encouraged to implement classified according to our main stakeholder groups and issues.
comprehensive employment policies designed to identify We now report on CSR under three headings: Our Workplace, employees with its achievements and to determine ways in Our Global Footprint and Our Marketplace.
Our Workplace relates which their knowledge and skills can best contribute towards to our employees, and covers issues relating to their health and its success.
Schemes are operated to encourage loyalty and safety, diversity, equality, training and human rights.
The Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme provides an Footprint refers to our interactions with our local communities and opportunity to purchase shares in Tomkins plc and is open to all the impact of our business on the environment.
Employee involvement and communication details our relationships with our customers, suppliers and capital programmes continue to be developed, designed to provide providers.
These three categories encompass all of our major equal opportunity to all, irrespective of sex, race, religion or stakeholder groups and CSR issues and risks.
Each company in the Group endeavours to provide Collating data and information from in excess of 180 sites equality of opportunity in recruiting, training, promoting and worldwide is a complex task.
In order to address this, we have developing the careers of disabled persons.
taken the decision to establish a CSR reporting network across Across all our business activities, the efficient use of energy the Group.
The aim of the network is threefold: to improve the is a key focus of our product development programmes, level of external CSR reporting: to share best practice: and, to whether to improve fuel efficiency in vehicles or to reduce raise standards across the Group.
We have also taken a close energy use in residential and commercial heating, ventilation look at our key performance indicators KPIs and put in and air-conditioning systems.
motion mechanisms for collating further metrics.
The choice of KPIs was based on an assessment of our key risks and stakeholders A summary of our progress and performance in 2006 together and a review of peer reporting and best practice guidelines.
The with details of our priorities for 2007 are set out below.
We KPIs cover safety performance, waste minimisation, emissions have chosen to publish a separate in-depth Corporate Social tracking, and resource conservation.
Data for the new indicators Responsibility Report which is available for download from our will be gathered for the first time for 2007. website, www.
22 Annual Report 2006 Directors report Operating and financial review Tomkins safety performance Severity rate 50 6.98 40 5.23 30 3.74 3.63 3.44 20 10 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Incident rate Severity rate 2006 performance 2007 priorities Safety performance We have instigated a number of improvements in 2006 relating Tomkins tracks safety performance data across the Group.
During the course of 2007 and beyond, chart above shows the safety trend over the past five years.
There we shall take further steps to ensure that these changes become has been a reduction of over 51% in the incident rate number established in the business.
of reportable incidents per 100 workers since 2002.
The severity Performance that is measured gets managed and, then in turn, rate average number of lost workdays per 100 employees for can be improved upon.
In keeping with this belief, we will in 2007 the five-year period shows a reduction of over 56%.
These make refinements and additions to the range of KPIs that we improvements were achieved through the continuous efforts collate and publish.
These changes place a continued emphasis of all employees, implementation of behaviour-based safety on excellent performance and continuous improvement, as well and ongoing efforts to make safety a way of life.
as encouraging facilities to report information that will aid in Certification of compliance making sound business decisions.
Senior management throughout the Group are required to Overall in 2007, our main aim is to achieve continuous confirm annually that they and their businesses have complied improvement in performance throughout the Group.
with the principles set out in both the Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Human Rights policy and to report any breaches.
This year certification was extended to cover the Health, Safety and Environment policy.
For 2006, no breaches were reported by any of the operating businesses.
Charitable and political donations Total charitable donations in the year were 560,931 2005: 836,348 of which the UK accounted for 155,939 2005: 165,483 : in the US, they totalled 323,398 2005: 571,253, of which 155,916 2005: 394,477 came from a Tomkins funded charitable trust: and in the remaining overseas companies, they totalled 81,594 2005: 99,612.
It is Tomkins practice not to use shareholders funds to make political donations either in the form of monetary donations or other in-kind benefits.
No political donations were made during the year 2005: nil.
