Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 THINK OF OTHERS CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR Together, the members of the working group are accountable for INTRODUCTION developing and improving our environmental management practice.
Corporate Social Responsibility is not new to Topps Tiles.
We know Each member of the working group is responsible for implementing that a reputation for acting responsibly helps build our business those elements of the environmental policy relevant to their through customer recommendation.
Topps Tiles believes that environmental responsibility This is why we pride ourselves on our commitment to product quality, should be an integral part of how we manage our business.
This is customer service excellence, good environmental management and why we have established such a senior working group to oversee our to making a positive contribution to the communities where we do progress in this area.
COMMUNITY RELATIONS In 2004, we set up a social and environmental responsibility working Topps is one of the biggest supporters of youth football in the UK, group chaired by a Board Director.
The purpose of this group was to providing new kits and equipment to junior teams local to our stores.
review how we were doing and to look for opportunities for improvement.
For example, we have set up We have a policy of building local brand awareness of Topps Tiles and a new way of including corporate social responsibility as part of our Tile Clearing House through involvement with young people.
Probably our most well known community project is our youth sports Our Website demonstrates the progress we have made on Corporate sponsorship, providing new kits and equipment to juniors in each Social Responsibility an extension of the way we have done and will town where we have an outlet.
This has made Topps one of the continue to do our business.
In it we describe our approach towards: biggest supporters of youth football in Britain and we now have over Community relations 260 teams playing regularly in our colours.
Environment We also take great pride in our fund raising achievements for our adopted charity Asthma UK.
This is our sixth year of support for the Workplace charity which aims to conquer this respiratory disorder which affects Supply Chain over one million children in the UK.
Asthma UK was the natural choice of charity for Topps to adopt, as our products help to reduce OUR APPROACH the levels of house dust mites which are one of the triggers of Andrew Liggett, the Finance Director for Topps Tiles Plc is the asthma attacks.
Our staff contributed greatly during the year to the Chairman and the Board Director responsible for the Social and fundraising by holding sponsored events and in total with our Environmental policy.
Company donation of 10,000 we raised over 65,000 for this worthy cause.
This now brings the total raised to date to 500,000.
Topps has established a social and environmental responsibility working group to further our consideration of corporate responsibility As well as sport there is also education, where via our product issues generally, but with a specific focus on environmental catalogue schools can win valuable computer equipment.
The members of the working group are the Group scheme started, over 25 schools have benefited nationwide.
Finance Director, the Head of Human Resources, the Buying Director and the Internal Audit Manager.
17 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 15% 70% is the target rate for recycling of 2005: 55% of our product is distributed plastic waste.
using our own fleet of modern vehicles, minimising unnecessary mileage.
WE RECOGNISE THAT OUR DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND AIM TO MINIMISE THE HARMFUL EFFECTS WHENEVER WE CAN.
18 Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR continued ENVIRONMENT There is a strong culture of internal promotion and regular dialogue Respect for the environment is an accepted part of modern day on job and career development.
Topps is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all, and we believe that we have the right policies in place to meet this objective.
At Topps, we recognise that our day-to-day activities impact on the The Group also operates an employee suggestion scheme which is environment and aim to minimise the harmful effects whenever we overseen by the Chairman, Barry Bester, which allows all employees can.
Last year, we began a Company-wide programme to improve to give suggestions which can help improve the business whether it our environmental performance, to review our policies, to put in be operational, environmental or social.
place management systems to monitor and measure our performance and to set targets for improvement.
This year we have An in-house magazine is produced six times a year and sent to all identified our main areas of environmental impact as being employees as a further way of keeping everybody informed of the Property particularly energy usage.
The Group constantly looks at developments within the business.
ways of reducing energy usage and also the use of energy efficient The Group has a well documented and clear Health and Safety policy lighting in our stores.
that is implemented rigorously throughout the business.
We operate Waste management at our stores, offices and warehouses.
All our a Health and Safety Committee which meets on a regular basis.
Its offices have now adopted paper recycling procedures and there is members are representative of all areas of the business and it is also a procedure now for stores to return their paper, cardboard chaired by our Chief Executive, Nick Ounstead.
and plastic waste to the distribution centre to be baled via the newly installed compactor unit.
SUPPLY CHAIN Topps Tiles purchases around 70m of goods each year.
The majority Transport Company vehicles and third party distributors.
The Group of our purchases are ceramic tiles and we also purchase stone, wood continues to review its distribution cycles and and those of its third and laminate and adhesives.
We source our products from around party carriers as well as continuing to encourage staff to use other the World.
modes of transport, in particular we have introduced a salary sacrifice scheme whereby staff can purchase bicycles at reduced Labour Standards and Environmental Responsibility are issues of prices and support a car sharing policy, where practical.
Topps Tiles has reviewed how it considers these issues with regard to its supplier relationships and has adopted: The Group works closely with key suppliers to source and distribute products that contribute positively to environmental performance.
A policy on Labour Standards and Human Rights The Group has developed an environmental policy on timber products A standard clause on environmental protection which is being and has adopted the principles and criteria of the Forest Stewardship introduced into all new contracts and existing contacts on renewal.
Our buyers also have a regular programme to visit our suppliers, to discuss these issues.
WORKPLACE Our full policy and established targets can be viewed on our website Topps businesses comply with current employment legislation and at www.
co. uk and can be found in the Investors section work with employees and local management of each branch to under Corporate Responsibility.
create a positive and equitable working environment.
