com ir results Environmental Key risks are described on page 31 of the Corporate Environmental and social Responsibility report.
Our environmental and social policy and statement, together with a Treasury The key risks arising from our activities and our financing review of our performance during 2006, is set out in the Corporate facilities are liquidity, financing and interest rates, foreign currency Responsibility Report on page 26. and covenants.
The treasury policies for managing these risks were approved by the Board in March 2001 and are summarised below.
Risks and uncertainties Liquidity risk There is an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and Our policy is to ensure continuity of funding and flexibility.
Debt management of the significant risks faced by the Group.
This is maturities are spread over a wide range of dates, thereby ensuring described in the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance that we are not exposed to excessive refinancing risk in any one year.
The maturity profile of debt outstanding at 31 December 2006 is summarised above.
Our liquidity risk arises from timing differences Operational The key risks arising from operations relate to between cash inflows and outflows.
These risks are managed organisation and people, advertising, circulation, pensions and through unutilised committed and uncommitted credit facilities.
our policy to maintain sufficient cash balances and committed facilities to meet anticipated funding requirements for the next two Organisation and people years.
These resources, together with the expected future cash flows The ability to execute and implement our strategic and business to be generated by the business, are regarded as sufficient to meet plans relies on the appropriate group structure, culture and availability the anticipated funding requirements of the Group for at least the of talent.
Our extensive review of the Groups businesses, operating next 12 months.
models and structure concluded that our focus should be on our National newspaper titles, key Regional titles, and UK digital assets.
Financing and interest rates risk A new technology-led operating model will be adopted to provide Our exposure to interest rate risk is managed through the use of a stronger platform for long-term growth.
The ability to complete interest rate swaps, options, caps and forward rate agreements.
the transition will be reliant upon the success of our change Hedging transactions are undertaken after a review of the effect on management programme.
profit after tax of a range of interest rate assumptions and probabilities, determined by reference to the general economic Advertising climate and market forecasts for interest rates.
In view of the The loss of major clients or reduction in a sector may adversely affect significantly reduced debt levels and forecasted low interest rate advertising, which is a significant proportion of our revenue.
We are environment, no debt was hedged at 31 December 2006. investing in our advertising functions using state-of-the-art technology to improve customer service.
We have strengthened our online Foreign currency risks presence through acquisitions and the launch of over 300 websites.
Less than 1% of the Groups turnover and operating costs are generated in currencies other than sterling.
Given the minimal impact Circulation on profit after tax of fluctuations in foreign currencies, we trade We may experience further loss of readership due to comparative foreign currencies at spot rates.
The payment of interest and capital cover price or competitive activity.
Our approach is to continue to on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies is all fully hedged focus on sustainable returns and appropriate levels of investment in through cross-currency interest rate swaps.
We have a programme of investment in colour presses which is progressing to plan.
Covenants risk We seek to maintain standard terms for all our financial covenants Pensions where possible.
Our covenants are monitored on an ongoing basis Pension deficits may grow at such a rate as to affect the viability of with formal testing of financial covenants at each half year end.
the Group itself or so that the annual funding costs consume a During the period the financial covenants of the bank facility were disproportionate level of profit.
Although this is carefully monitored revised following the extension of the bank facility to 2009 during and there are regular reviews with trustees, there are a number of 2005.
The Company continues to comply with all borrowing factors which are outside our control, including interest rates, inflation obligations and financial covenant obligations.
rates, mortality and regulatory change.
Outlook Business continuity We are dependent on our technology, networks and manufacturing We witnessed an encouraging finish to 2006.
Business continuity plans are in place and monitored and environment remains challenging and volatile we continue to we have invested in our network and manufacturing infrastructure expect advertising market conditions to stabilise during the year and flexibility.
with the rate of decline slowing.
The combination of this stabilisation andcontinued focusoncostreduction underpinsthe Boards confidence in the future, with 2007 performance in line with expectations.
