Tullow people Since 2000, Tullows business has grown beyond all recognition.
Tullow now operates in 22 countries and has over 250 employees.
We have built not just a great business, but also a great team.
The retention, development and ongoing expansion of our team on a consistent basis.
This system is based on a transparent set of complementary is fundamental to Tullows growth objectives personal and corporate objectives with a All our employees have a stake in the business and in its success clear link to key performance metrics in the Groups growth strategy.
through the Groups reward and recognition policies In 2007, as part of a Board level initiative, This enables Tullow to attract and retain high-performing Executive Directors and senior management and high-potential people in all areas of the business will participate in a programme to identify and develop the leadership skills and behaviours that are fundamental to the Groups continued success.
This will be Positive working environment is already improving communication within integrated into our strategy and objectives Our principal goal is to build an organisation offices and across the Group as a whole.
to help us continue to develop our team with a spirit that reflects a one Tullow ethos and the business in a way that supports Exciting career opportunities across all our locations and operations.
Our Tullows long-term profitable growth.
Throughout Tullow we have numerous career culture is based on respect for the individual development opportunities that offer exciting and integrity, openness and honesty in all new personal experiences and professional our dealings.
We have put in place a consistent Over 45% As a Group we focus on ensuring safe approach to remuneration and encourage working environments and systems for secondments to different projects, transferring of our staff are under 45 years of age.
our employees and contractors, supported technical expertise and enhancing skills and Tullow has built a team for long-term growth.
by appropriate policies and procedures.
This broadens and develops our competitive edge in the Still growing industry and helps us attract and retain The 2007 LTIFR target is 0.90, continuing to Over the coming years, we will continue to talented, ambitious and versatile people.
focus on the safety and well-being of our improve in all people-related areas.
of projects small and large will help us remain a great place to work and move closer We encourage and support healthy living to our goal of being the employer of choice 100 people options and achieving a work-life balance, within the industry.
offering flexible and remote working and in an operational or technical capacity sponsored gym and sports activities across positions the Group well in an industry the Groups three main offices in London, that is increasingly resource constrained.
Clear objectives and performance We are also committed to transparent based rewards disclosure and clear communication of our Our recognition and reward strategy activities and policies, both internally and is strongly linked to performance and externally.
During 2006, as part of a Group achievement, from both a Group and wide initiative to improve knowledge sharing, individual perspective.
All employees we began rolling out a unified Tullow Intranet participate in bonus and share incentive to give employees access to corporate and schemes and we have implemented a Group information and news at the same Group-wide Performance Management time.
This is the first phase in a major GroupSystem, providing training and support for wide project to integrate people, systems and ongoing staff appraisal and development information onto common platforms and 28 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 1 Bhav Amin and Tan Kent.
3 Gert-Jan Smulders and Monique Beattie.
8 Martyn Morris, Kevin Stallbom, Manu Wope.
12 Paul Burden and Nhlanhla Kubheka.
