Corporate and social responsibility Tullow has a long track record of operating in developing economies, many of which have complex socioeconomic challenges or high environmental sensitivity.
Our objective is to minimise our impact on the environment and to foster and support longer-term development and self-sustaining enterprise in local communities.
with Communities initiative with a particular In 2006, Tullow had no significant environmental, health, safety or emphasis on the development of social security issues, continuing to protect Tullow staff, contractors and entrepreneurship models within the local communities and manage our environmental impact communities where we work.
LTIFR was 0.81, well within our target of 1.0, despite a 65% increase to Our community-based environmental 6.1 million hours worked during the year in 17 countries, both onshore and social projects got off to a great start and offshore in Uganda in 2006.
Tullow undertook a US$220,000 project in the Kaiso-Tonya region We improved our corporate and social responsibility initiatives by on the shores of Lake Albert and in close developing our procedures and formalising Tullows policies for proximity to the Groups operations there.
Based on discussions with local village chiefs Working with Communities and communities, Tullows initiatives and funding centred on health, safety, education and access: 3 Overall, we performed well against our to 18,678 m, 60% below the Environment Each year more than 30 people die in the 2006 objectives set out in our first CSR Agencys consented annual limits.
area from water borne cholera.
Wells and Report, published during the year, achieving Tullow has two discharging gas platforms pipelines were installed to carry fresh water or exceeding all of our targets.
A review of in the SNS and, combined, these the options for full external verification has To help prevent the spread of malaria, we discharged 0.1624 tonnes versus a DTI been completed and a procedure is in place gave 1,000 mosquito nets to local families consent of 1.11 tonnes.
for verification of the 2007 CSR Report.
As 25% of infants in the region die at birth, More disclosure training was given to local women and Environmental performance from our At Tullow we are committed to transparent traditional birthing attendants, on hygienic UK operated assets was strong, achieving disclosure and clear communication of our birthing practices and birthing rooms have results well within consented annual limits activities and policies, both internally and been constructed in Kyehoro, Kaiso, Mbegu in each case.
We are constantly refining the and Tonya Groups policies and procedures to manage Strong environmental performance Road access built for the drilling the increasing range of risks we face in our operation provides a route to market for Environmental data is collected for our business and facilitate our day-to-day work.
operated producing assets, the majority of local fishermen and inbound access for In 2006, for example, we reviewed our driving medical advisers and local government which are in the UK.
Full details are contained policy in recognition of the fact that this is a in the 2006 CSR Report, which will be published aid.
Two new airstrips built in the region frequent source of accidents occurring within facilitate additional local access in May 2007.
The key environmental the oil and gas industry.
In addition, we have performance highlights for 2006 are: recently formalised and updated the Groups A beekeeping co-operative was set up Human Rights and Anti-Bribery policies, which incorporating seven villages and 200 A further 15% reduction in Carbon Dioxide apply to all employees, contractors and agents hives are already in place, with 2,000 emissions from the Bacton and Hewett of the Group.
Tullow appointed Graham Martin, planned over two years.
At 216,940 tonnes, this was almost General Counsel and an executive Director of to build a profitable business in the 50% below the European Union Emissions the Group, as the nominated director with substantial Ugandan honey market Trading Scheme consented amount.
responsibility for Human Rights issues.
To improve safety on Lake Albert, which Water is used as part of the gas refining Investing in social entrepreneurship is used daily by thousands of people process and for fire water at the Bacton One of the key tasks we set ourselves in fishing, Tullow undertook two projects.
Terminal and this year decreased by 36% 2006 was to develop the Groups Working For full details please see caption and picture opposite 24 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 While thousands of people fish Lake Albert for their livelihood, many do not swim and few wear life jackets, so loss of life through drowning is a constant threat.
To improve safety on the lake, Tullow undertook two projects: the manufacture of life jackets by local women and the training of a locally based lake rescue team.
In January this year two fishermen were rescued as a result of these initiatives.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Corporate and social responsibility continued Linking CSR and business development for individual and collective responsibility.
This system was in full During 2006 we formalised the Groups With activities across 22 countries, Tullow operation on 11 January 2007, when a 4,500 CSR activities and, through the CSR operates in very diverse environments of tonne commercial cargo ship passing through Committee, aligned funding and sponsorship regulation and compliance, but seeks to the CMS Area in the SNS, lost power from its with business development.
Projects will be apply common Group-wide standards engines and began to drift in force 10 gales.
a mix of recurring long-term investment in wherever possible.
Emergency Response Teams were assembled key areas, combined with one-off investments at the Bacton Terminal and in the London We manage our EHS performance, and appropriate to the context of Tullows office.
Production in the area was shut in, work to improve this performance, through business.
The terms of reference of the 30 offshore personnel were evacuated by the the Groups Integrated Management System.
Committee are to: Coastguard and a full media briefing plan This is a disciplined framework for the was put in place.
Fortunately, the vessel Develop and implement a framework management of environment, health, safety passed just south of the Murdoch platform for Group-wide CSR expenditure: and security matters throughout the Group.
and, at a later stage, within a couple of The Groups Performance Management System hundred metres of the Caister platform Consider and propose an annual budget provides clear links between Corporate EHS without incident or injury.
By the early hours for CSR activities to the Board: targets and Business Unit targets.
of the morning of the 12 January, the ship Evolve and further develop Tullows social was out of the CMS Area and production Tullow Oil plc achieved International Standards and ethical policies: recommenced on a staged basis on 12 and Organisation ISO 14001 certification, an 13 January.
Prepare and approve the CSR Report: internationally recognised standard for environmental management, in May 2006. Review and coordinate internal and More to do This certification and implementation of external CSR activities: and 2006 was a good year for EHS and CSR in Tullows environmental standards will be Tullow.
However, the sheer pace of growth Consider other CSR matters as specified tested and verified in Bangladesh and that the Group has achieved in the last by the Board.
Pakistan in 2007 and in Uganda in 2008. number of years continues to present us with In 2006, the Group spent US$1.5 million on opportunities and challenges in these areas.
During 2006, the Group prepared and adopted CSR projects, including funding committed Addressing these is given the highest priority a Tullow standard for Environmental and under various licence agreements.
We have set ourselves key Social Impact Assessment, in line with represents an increase of 12% over 2005. plans and objectives again in 2007 including best practice and World Bank Standards.
In 2007, total expenditure of close to the successful transition of the Hardman We developed the process using input from US$2.5 million has been approved or is assets, no significant environment incidents Tullows country managers and tested committed under licence terms, with projects throughout the Group and LTIFR below 0.90. our findings in the field on projects in spread across all the Groups core areas.
Risk management, good corporate behaviour Madagascar and Ghana with positive results.
and continuous improvement are built into To ensure positive practice across all key the fabric of Tullow and our approach is to areas of our Contracts and Procurement be responsible, aware and committed.
Process, we also reviewed our methods of 12% ensuring the EHS commitment and increase to US$1.5 million in funding for awareness of our suppliers.
social and community projects within our Tullow operates a 24 7 on-call crisis core areas.
management system, which in 2006 was again subject to ongoing live simulation Rigorously managing risk exercises to test the plan, team and facilities.
There are inherent risks in the oil and gas All exercises are independently observed industry.
We manage these through good and feedback is implemented to ensure policies and practice which stress the need continued improvement in our practices 26 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Street scene on the road from Bangora in Bangladesh.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27
