Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility Alan Wignall left was Both Alan and Vic received awarded an OBE and their awards for services to Vic Shannon right the the defence industry MBE, in 2006 In inlet ice protection system and the Electrics business received a Ultra is a responsible citizen note of congratulations on the same programme.
For the second Ultra believes that it should at all times be a responsible year in a row, Flightline Systems was awarded the STAR award for corporate citizen.
As such the Group complies with all applicable the ARR-84 Performance Based Logistic contract from Lockheed legislation in the areas of trading, employment, health and safety Martin in recognition of being one of its top fty suppliers.
Ultra further believes that, in order to achieve superior business performance, the Group must, in Feedback from customers is received in other ways including certain areas, exceed the minimum standards required by law.
surveys and formal rating systems.
Lockheed Martin Maritime Ultras policies relating to its corporate responsibility are generally Systems & Sensors gave Advanced Tactical Systems a supplier total established by the Board with individual businesses taking a performance quality rating of 100%, based on delivery, quality major role in their implementation.
and service ratings, up from 99% in 2005.
The Groups Precision Air Systems business was recognised by Boeing as a gold standard Business ethics quality supplier in connection with deliveries of HiPPAG airborne Customers compressors for the Small Diameter Bomb programme.
Ultra requires that the Groups employees comply with the spirit and principles of laws and standards of conduct of the countries in People are at the heart of Ultra which it does business as well as behaving ethically and with fairness.
Directors and employees are required to avoid personal Employees conicts of interest regarding company business and are bound by The performance of Ultra is fundamentally driven by the individual strict rules on insider dealing and insider information.
and team contributions made by employees.
The Groups success in innovating to meet customer needs is based on the broad range In addition, all businesses are strictly required to comply fully of skills and capabilities of employees.
All managers in Ultra, with the relevant national export control regulations.
They are supported by HR professionals, work towards the aim of delivering also required to conduct their business in strict accordance with an efficient organisation with competent and committed people to competition and anti-trust laws.
meet the Groups business commitments.
Ultra supports and respects the protection of internationally Ultra employees have been recognised during 2006 at national proclaimed human rights in the countries in which it operates.
level with Alan Wignall being awarded an OBE and Vic Shannon Ultra does not make any political donations.
the MBE, both for services to the defence industry.
Customer relationships In order to ensure that Group businesses can recruit, retain, Ultra promotes good working relationships with all our customers motivate and develop the right people, Ultra pursues a range of with a special emphasis on meeting commitments.
The Group initiatives, which are described below.
receives direct feedback on relationships from many customers such as BAE Systems where Ultra is a member of the Major Employment practices Equipment Supply Programme MESP and from UK MoD Supplier Ultra believes that superior business performance can only be Relations Group.
achieved through having committed and efficient people.
Achieving this high quality requires Ultra to recruit widely and with no bias or These relationships are also regularly recognised by other discrimination.
It is therefore the policy of Ultra to be an equal customers across the range of Ultra businesses through feedback opportunities employer and to oppose all forms of unlawful or and award processes.
For example, the team of which Ultras unfair discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, Controls business is a key member received a Leadership Award disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion or beliefs.
from United Technologies for performance on the F-135 engine In addition, the Group is a responsible employer, seeking to innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 24 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility Ultra works hard at Ultra works hard at training and developing communicating effectively its people.
Off-the-job with its staff the 24th training was provided at edition of Ultra News was all businesses in 2006 published in the autumn of 2006 achieve a culture of fairness to employees and of being a good All US and Canadian employees are offered medical plans.
Many place both to work and develop a career.
Employees and businesses promote and offer specic wellness programmes such applicants are treated equally and fairly in respect of remuneration, as smoking cessation.
training, promotion and career development.
Retirement benets In complying with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 in the Ultra offers retirement benefits to employees in the UK, US and United Kingdom, the Group has established a procedure enabling Canada.
Further details are provided on page 23 of the Operating employees to bring matters to the attention of an appropriate and Financial Review.
manager outside of their own business in the event that they do Employee consultation not feel able to approach their local line management.
A similar Gaining the commitment of everyone who works at Ultra involves system of third party hotlines has also been established at US and effective communication and consultation.
This takes a number of Canadian businesses.
forms such as the bi-annual Group magazine Ultra News, Development and training company-wide strategy and performance presentations, birthday The Group actively supports and invests in training and and communication lunches, cascade team brief meetings and development linked to business needs.
Each business is responsible YOURviews employee surveys.
The YOURviews employee for identifying the training needs of its employees and managing survey provides local management teams with feedback and an its own training budget.
This typically takes place through opportunity to benchmark across the Group.
The process is individual employee performance and development reviews, which typically conducted every one to two years: during 2006 the are held at least annually.
Specic training programmes are survey took place in 16 businesses and showed high levels of provided for individuals as necessary.
Additionally, training employee satisfaction and engagement.
programmes on management processes and techniques are run at Succession planning Group level along with workshops on Ultras successful competitive An annual organisation and succession plan is produced by the strategy, strategic selling and programme management processes.
Managing Director or President of each business and is used to Individual businesses provide a wide variety of training and identify the development actions for employees with high development opportunities.
As well as tuition reimbursement for potential.
It also reviews the performance of the business shorter programmes, support also ranges from apprenticeship management teams and any planned organisation changes.
programmes to sponsorships at bachelor, master and doctorate level.
Health and safety There are also very strong links with a large number of A healthy, committed workforce working in a safe environment is Universities.
For example, at Ultra EMS a student from the State necessary to achieve better business results.
Ultra therefore places University of New York helped develop a complex mathematical great emphasis on maintaining high standards of health and safety.
algorithm that can be applied to ranging and calibration of vessels All Ultra businesses are required to have a written local policy, to with advanced degaussing systems.
In Canada, Ultra Tactical have the necessary resources to implement the policy, to provide Communication Systems has worked with Institut National fide la adequate information, instruction and training for employees and Recherche Scientifique to develop a new type of radio antenna to implement monitoring of health and safety standards.
The Chief Executive has been appointed as the main Board member Benets with overall health and safety responsibility.
The Managing Directors Ultra offers competitive and comprehensive benets to all and Presidents of the operating businesses are responsible for employees, which are regularly reviewed.
The Group believes in implementation of the policy.
rewarding its employees well for good performance.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility In 2006, Ultra PMES received Ultra is committed to a RoSPA Gold Occupational working together with Health & Safety Award in others in the UK aerospace recognition of a very high and defence industry in standard of health and order to develop safety at work competitive supply chains Bi-annual audits by independent, external, qualied assessors and Defence industry in order to develop supply chains to ensure covering health and safety matters are conducted, with the next they remain competitive, so that we are able to deliver increased cycle scheduled for 2007.
Audits and the resulting follow-up value to our customers.
process have proved effective in reaching and maintaining high Activities are centred upon seven commitments: standards across all sites.
Each business is required to submit a delivering a new business culture separate annual report on health and safety issues.
The results of delivering innovation the audits and annual reports from each business are reviewed by offering through-life solutions the Board annually in January.
increasing the pace of change Health and safety of employees, visitors and the local community demonstrating leadership alike is taken very seriously by the Group and the individual delivering the SC21 action plan businesses.
Ultras commitment to health and safety was conducting business ethically and with integrity exemplified during 2006 when PMES received a RoSPA Gold Senior Ultra representatives participate in the various SC21 Working Occupational Health & Safety Award in recognition of a very high Groups and the Key Customers Group to assist the SBAC with the standard of health and safety at work.
Supplier and other partner relationships Supplier payment policy Suppliers Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and Contracts with suppliers are placed following a fair, competitive conditions under which they conduct business transactions with tendering process on an arms length basis or through formal their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are teaming agreements.
Conflicts of interest are avoided at all times.
made in accordance with those terms, provided that the supplier is Such relationships engender a cooperative culture which helps also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
The Groups with problem solving and helps to accommodate changes to actual payment performance at the end of 2006 is described on requirements where these occur.
Gain-share arrangements are page 21 of the Operating and Financial Review.
also entered into where appropriate and provide benefits for both Ultra and its suppliers and partners.
Community Ultra recognises the importance of being a responsible partner in Ultra is committed to close working relationships with suppliers.
This the communities in which it operates and in which its employees is illustrated by Tactical Communication Systems where a new live.
The Group has a positive attitude to environmental issues supplier web portal was developed in 2006 to provide faster and and is pleased to support selected charities and maintain links clearer communication with suppliers enabling them to react more with the local communities.
The supplier web portal database contains real time information such as the suppliers scorecards for on-time Environment delivery and quality ratings.
It also advises the supplier of any delivery Ultra recognises it is important, both for its employees and the date changes and provides a le exchange drop off site where the communities in which it operates, that effective measures are in supplier can access drawings, parts lists and other information.
place to ensure that the Group minimises the environmental impact of its activities.
Supply chain and SC21 Ultra is a founding signatory to SC21, the UK SBAC-led action Ultra has a formal environmental policy that addresses compliance with environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, plan for 21st Century supply chains, which was launched at waste disposal and noise, the economical use of materials and the Farnborough International in July 2006.
Ultra is therefore committed to working together with others in the UK Aerospace establishment of appropriate environmental performance standards.
innovative solutions winning performance consistent delivery 26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility Manufacturing & Card Ultra MSI was recognised Systems was the first Ultra by the US Environmental business to be accredited Protection Agency and the to ISO 14001and now Department of offers RoHS-compliant Transportation for excellence manufacturing services to in commuter benefits its customers Progress is monitored through annual reporting and a bi-annual Charitable and community activities audit process.
The Chief Executive has been appointed as the main In addition to the charitable donations made by the Group Board member with overall environmental responsibility.
The outlined in the Directors report, Ultra employees are actively Managing Directors and Presidents of the operating businesses are supported in their charitable fund raising endeavours.
A large responsible for implementation of the policy.
number of local and national charities is supported.
Bi-annual external audits covering environmental matters are Charitable activities vary from donations to fund raising events conducted by independent, external, qualied auditors: the next including sponsored walks and runs, raffles and an employee cycle will take place in 2007.
As with health and safety the audits cookbook.
Many thousands of pounds are raised in this way.
and the resulting follow-up process have proved effective in reaching As well as charitable work there is also a very wide variety of and maintaining high standards of compliance across all sites.
Ultra DNE has yet again been The results of the audits and annual reports from each business are nominated for the Governors Prevention Partnership Corporate reviewed by the Board each January.
Honor Roll in Connecticut through its participation in a mentoring programme at a local school.
Ultras Precision Air Systems business In 2006 Manufacturing & Card Systems was the first Ultra business has continued to support work experience programmes with local to be accredited to ISO 14001.
As part of its environmental schools.
The Airport Systems business sponsors a local youth commitment all Magicard products are now compliant with the football team.
Elsewhere, Ultra Manufacturing & Card Systems RoHS Reduction of Hazardous Substances and WEEE Waste took part in the three-day skills festival event for secondary Electrical and Electronic Equipment legislation and the business education students at a local college.
Maritime Systems in Canada offers RoHS-compliant manufacturing services to its customers.
is a gold sponsor of the Robots EAST Exploration and Other businesses have made investments to improve their Awareness of Science and Technology initiative which provides environmental and business performance.
For example, Sonar & high school students from the Atlantic provinces with the Communication Systems has upgraded a compactor to reduce waste opportunity to design, build and test large robots.
collections by 50% and installed new energy efficient air compressors while Maritime Systems has reduced energy consumption by 40% The performance of Ultra is fundamentally since 2002 through an energy reduction programme.
driven by the individual and team Following its move from Faireld to Wallingford, Connecticut, in contributions made by employees.
The 2006, MSI was recognised by the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation for excellence in Groups success in innovating to meet commuter benets.
This award was granted in recognition of MSIs customer needs is based on the broad range efforts to provide alternative commuting options for their of skills and capabilities of employees.
MSI has 22 employees in a subsidised van pool and over 30 employees who take advantage of alternative work schedules including compressed work weeks.
Nearly all Ultra businesses have video conferencing facilities.
These have been progressively installed over the last eight years and have proven highly effective in holding reviews and other meetings without the need for travel.
