24 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report Contributing to the basics of life in harmony with nature we highlight Vedanta on account of a recent site visit from which our analyst reported a higher level of engagement by skilled and semi-skilled employees than anywhere else in the industry.
A leading market analyst facing the world and specifically the 3.
Establish processes based on Our Commitment to Sustainable non-ferrous metals sector in which national regulations and globally Development we operate.
We understand how accepted standards, guidelines and We at Vedanta are engaged in the mining the growing requirements of the systems for continuous and smelting of the top three most used burgeoning world population need to improvement: and non-ferrous metals aluminium, zinc be met from scarce resources, and 4.
Involve our stakeholders, especially and copper.
Each of these metals has an hence are steadily aligning our business employees, in the sustainable important role in modern life, be it processes on the foundations of a development programmes through their use in power generation well-planned sustainability strategy undertaken at our operations.
and transmission, galvanisation of steel, to address both short-term and , automobiles, term issues.
As a first step, we have embraced fertilisers or food supplements.
Thus, health, safety and environment HSE our business directly and indirectly We continue to believe that our and community development as a core touches the lives of millions of people approach to sustainable development business commitment seeking to across the world.
Whilst we are will not only give confidence to our achieve excellence in all areas of humbled by the vast impact of our stakeholders about our performance Vedantas operations.
This commitment business on the basics of life, we also but will translate into attractive returns extends to all levels of Vedanta, recognise that, due to the nature of our for our shareholders and also create including employees and contractors, business operations, there could be sustainable value for our operations.
in order to achieve excellence in our adverse impacts on the environment activities.
During 2005-06, we have and the occupational health and safety Our Approach to Sustainable proactively sought to move beyond of the communities and habitats around Development regulatory compliance and continued our operations.
We have established a four-step the trend of improvement started in approach to our sustainable the previous years across all of our In recognition of our responsibilities development commitments.
towards our stakeholders, including steps are: our employees, customers, suppliers, 1.
Establish sound governance and Our approach towards sustainable communities and the environment from drive sustainable development development is summarised in the flow which we draw our raw materials, we initiatives from Vedanta Board level chart opposite.
continually strive to reduce any adverse to operational levels Tone at the impact, thereby creating sustainable Top approach : The subsequent sections in this report value for all our stakeholders.
Plan for and achieve phased provide detailed information about our Accordingly, for Vedanta, sustainable performance improvements by sustainable development programmes development is a journey wherein we developing and completing initiatives and performance.
progress by contributing to the basics that are congruent with our shortof life in harmony with nature.
term and long-term business needs without restricting the allocation of We continue to look forward to the resources: sustainable development challenges VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 25 BVcV Z Y kZghZ edgi[da d d[ b c c VcY bZiVah Wjh cZhhZh VcY IkijW dWX b jo bV ciV c V hjhiV cVWaZ gdli] c ]Vgbdcn l i] H: VcY Xdbbjc in cZZYh# Feb Y [i 8dbb ibZci id hjhiV cVW a in eda Xn [dgbjaViZY Wn 7dVgY VcY beaZbZciVi dc d[ hjX] eda X Zh h jcYZgiV`Zc Vi 7jh cZhh aZkZah# 8dchZgkZ cVijgVa gZhdjgXZh VcY gVl bViZg Vah!
dei b hZ dc lViZg VcY ZcZg n jhZh VcY bVm b hZ hVk c h!
"VcY lVhiZ ji a hVi dc cXajY c gZXnXa c VcY gZjhZ d[ lVhiZh# IV`Z je VcY eVgi X eViZ c c i Vi kZh Xdcig Wji c id Xdbbjc in YZkZadebZcih# :cXdjgV Z djg VhhdX ViZh a `Z XdcigVXidgh VcY hjeea Zgh id VYdei VcY egVXi XZ djg eda X Zh VcY eg cX eaZh c i]Z g VXi k i Zh "" VXgdhh i]Z kVajZ X]V c ZcXdjgV Z hjhiV cVWaZ gdli] c ]Vgbdcn l i] cVijgZ# KZYVciV 7dVgY!"
Y gZXih VcY IkijW dWX b jo hjeZgk hZ l] ahi cY k YjVa deZgVi dch YZkZade eaVch [dg c i Vi c VXi k i Zh idlVgYh [ja[ aa c Xdbb ibZcih bVYZ c HjhiV cVW a in IjhWj[]o Eda X Zh# I]Z Wjh cZhhZh id VaadXViZ Veegdeg ViZ gZhdjgXZh!
iZX]cdad n dg [jcYh# beaZbZci kVg djh Zck gdcbZci bVcV ZbZci hnhiZbh Z# #!
dXXjeVi dcVa ]ZVai] VcY hV[Zin bVcV ZbZci hnhiZb Z# #!
"D H6H &-%%& VcY Xdbbjc in eVgi X eVi dc [dg bjijVa lZaa""WZ c idlVgYh hjhiV cVWaZ gdli]# 8dci cjZ l i] VcY c i ViZ cZl egd gVbbZh VcY egdXZhhZh [dg YZci [ XVi dc d[ H: beVXih d[ cY k YjVa deZgVi dch VcY gZYjXZ Vcn VYkZghZ beVXih dc Zck gdcbZci!"
ZbeadnZZh VcY XdcigVXidgh VcY adXVa Xdbbjc i Zh!
VcY hig kZ idlVgYh Xdci cjVa begdkZbZcih# 8dci cjZ l i] VcY c i ViZ cZl egd gVbbZh [dg WZcZ[ i c i]Z adXVa Xdbbjc i Zh l]ZgZ lZ deZgViZ# 9ZkZade Wjh cZhh eaVc dc H: VcY Xdbbjc in YZkZadebZci ?Z[dj o d] a[o egd gVbbZh Vh gZaZkVci id eda Xn aZkZa Xdbb ibZcih VcY hjhiV cVW a in higViZ Zh# f[h ehcWdY[ HZi dW ZXi kZh VcY iVg Zih V V chi cY XVidgh dc H: VcY dZ YWjehi WdZ 8dbbjc in c i Vi kZh Vi gdje VcY 7jh cZhh aZkZah HV[Zin Adhi I bZ c jgn :gZfjZcXn GViZ !
LViZg i[jj d] eX`[Yj l[i 8dchZgkVi dc!
6 g :b hh dc WdZ jWh][ji GZYjXi dch [dg gZaZkVci eVgVbZiZgh!
LVhiZ BVcV ZbZci Ji a oVi dc hda Yh di]Zg ]VoVgYdjh !
ZiX# VcY 6lVgYh GZXd c i dch# 6cVanhZ VccjVa eZg[dgbVcXZ dc ZVX] cY XVidg [dg l] X] dW ZXi kZh F[h ehcWdY[ VcY iVg Zih lZgZ hZi# GZedgi eZg[dgbVcXZ VcY YZci [n gZVhdch i]Vi aZY id begdkZbZcih h[l [m WdZ mWo dg di]Zgl hZ# ehmWhZ HeZX [n gdjeh Xdbb ibZci [dg Xdci cjVa [jijgZ begdkZbZcih VcY V b idlVgYh VX] Zk c hiVijh d[ V gZXd c oZY adWVa aZVYZg dc hjhiV cVWaZ YZkZadebZci c WVhZ bZiVa b c c VcY bZiVa cYjhign# 26 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued Health, Safety and Environment Policy At Vedanta Resources plc, we believe in sustainable development and are committed to effective management of health, safety, environment and community development as an integral part of our business.
Accordingly, we will strive to: develop, implement and maintain health, safety and environment HSE management systems aligned with our commitments and beliefs, and consistent with world-class standards: comply with applicable HSE regulations in all our activities, thereby providing a safe and healthy work environment: seek continual improvements through setting and reviewing targets, assessing and reporting HSE performance, using appropriate best available practices and providing all employees with HSE training: implement regular health surveillance and risk-based monitoring of employees: conserve natural resources, raw materials, water and energy by process improvements, recycling and reducing waste including waste utilisation: work with communities to contribute to their development: encourage contractors and suppliers to adopt principles and practices adopted by us: and communicate with all our stakeholders on the progress and performance of HSE management.
1 June 2005 Social Policy At Vedanta Resources plc, we believe in sustainable development and are committed to raise the quality of life and social well-being of communities where we operate.
Towards this, we will be guided by following: Our community development initiatives will be prioritised based on local needs.
Broad areas of focus will be: Social Investment health, education and livelihood Bio Investment water harvesting, agriculture and social forestry Environment conservation.
All operating locations will incorporate corporate social responsibility CSR activities as an integral part of their business plan and have an appropriate organisation to implement the same.
We will be open to working with like minded associates, government bodies and other volunteer organisations in pursuit of our mission.
We will measure and report progress as per social accounting systems and encourage third party reviews for effective delivery and measurable impact.
We will regularly communicate with all our stakeholders on the progress and performance on social management.
24 October 2005 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 27 develop, implement, and maintain health, safety and environment management systems aligned with our commitments and beliefs and consistent with world-class standards Vedanta HSE Policy, June 2005 Vedanta has a system for periodically The Governance Structure for Management Structure auditing its HSE system performance.
Sustainable Development Each business has systematically It also undergoes mandatory periodic We are committed to continually developed its management structure reviews by the relevant regulatory ensuring that the HSE and social based on a Plan-DoCheck-Act authorities.
commitments of our business are approach.
In order to plan, implement managed appropriately and in harmony and review progress on all initiatives.
As sound The following four primary enabling We have invested in developing our corporate governance is the first step to elements are provided within the organisation, processes and people to excellence in sustainable development, management structures.
support and sustain a growing business a Board-level committee was formed of global size and stature.
This HSE Committee is Leadership a policy framework for recruitment, chaired by Dr SK Tamotia, a nonSenior management and operational training and development, compensation, executive Director, and includes the heads lead all HSE and community conduct and business ethics that guide CEO of the Vedanta Group and other initiatives, setting objectives and our Human Resource Management senior management from operating targets, continually reviewing and processes.
Through these processes teams as members.
The HSE monitoring performance, and allocating we aim to promote empowerment, Committee provides direction on all resources wherever necessary.
higher degrees of commitment and HSE and community initiatives and accountability and being an equal monitors progress.
It has met three Management Systems opportunity employer.
Further details times during the year.
Formal management systems OHSAS on our employee development, is given 18001 on occupational health and safety in the Business Review section.
Separate HSE committees have been and ISO 14001 on the environment have formed at each Business during the been adopted at the majority of the unit Training year to assess and address the HSEoperations.
These systems have Training on HSE issues and community related risks specific to their assisted in improving our development initiatives has been operations.
These committees ensure competitiveness and effectiveness provided to employees and contractor implementation of Group policies at unit through systematic improvements in personnel.
HSE training has helped to levels and communicate performance our processes and operations, and by reduce HSE incidents across the to the HSE Committee.
The committees setting and achieving specific Groups operations and enhanced the are headed by Mr MS Mehta CEO improvements in relevant activities.
communitys perception of the Group.
HZL, Mr T Venkatesan CEO Sterlite, These systems have been integrated Community initiatives such as Sterlites Mr CV Krishnan CEO KCM, Mr CP with the existing quality management Women Empowerment Project at Baid Executive Director BALCO and system based on ISO 9001:2000.
With Tuticorin have also significantly Mr S Rathi Executive Director the help of these systems, we have been enhanced the HSE-related awareness MALCO.
Separate teams have also able to establish robust processes for amongst local communities.
been formed for addressing community continuous improvement.
development issues at each business.
All significant Indian operations in The Group CEO and the CSR Manager Vedanta have been certified under the spearhead community development management systems mentioned above initiatives.
In addition, the respective also please refer to Table 1.
In addition business heads are responsible for the Vedanta operations at Debari and taking the community initiatives forward Vizag have been certified to SA 8000, through their units CSR Cell.
which provides wider coverage on health and safety issues for both contract personnel and our own employees.
28 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued We will strive to seek continual improvements through setting and reviewing targets, assessing and reporting HSE performance, using appropriate best available practices and providing all employees with HSE training Vedanta HSE Policy, June 2005 Risk management Table 1: Status of Certification of Vedanta operations to E & OHSAS Standards Risk assessments were carried Company Unit ISO 14001: certification OHSAS 18001: Certification out during the year, particularly on Sterlite Tuticorin smelter Certified Certified hazardous operations, and significant Silvassa copper refining facility Certified Certified risks were minimised by the application Mt Lyall mine Not intended Not intended of engineering measures and the Thalanga mine Not intended Not intended adoption of new improved technology and safe working practices, wherever HZL Rampura Agucha mine Certified Certified practicable.
Rajpura Dariba mine Certified Certified Zawar mining complex Certified Certified HSE and Community Development Chanderiya smelter Certified Certified Business Plans were created at unit Darbari smelter Certified Certified level at the beginning of the year.
Vizag smelter Certified Certified Monthly progress against those plans BALCO Manipat mine Certified Certified was discussed and reported at the Bodai-Daldali deposit individual business and Group levels.
Kawardha mines Target July 2006 Target July 2006 Regular reviews against those plans Korba complex Certified Certified at unit levels were also completed.
MALCO Yercaud mine Certified Certified A management information system Kolli Hills mine Target March 2007 Target March 2007 has been developed for reporting Mettur Dam complex Certified Certified performance from all unit operations up to the level of the HSE Committee.
KCM Konkola mines Under Certification Certified Designated HSE managers for each Nchanga mines Under Certification Certified business unit worked with management Narnpunclwe mines Under Certification Certified on the implementation of HSE Nkana smelter Under Certification Certified initiatives, with their respective roles Expected to be certified by June 06. being summarised below.
Operational Managers It is the responsibility of operational We have over 200 specialists across the The operations are guided by the managers throughout the Group to Group working on HSE activities.
The country-specific HSE regulatory ensure implementation of the HSE and distribution of HSE personnel across framework compliance and individual Social Policies and systems, and to the major operations is reported below: operations work closely with the monitor operational performance authorities on HSE-related issues.
H: HE:8 6A HIH 6I K:96CI6 Specialists on Community Initiatives HSE Specialists Each operation unit has employed 6ajb c jb ', O cX All individual units have qualified and personnel with professional 8deeZg cY V '& experienced HSE specialists to advise qualifications in either rural 8deeZg OVbW V &&& on implementing HSE improvement development or social work to work on 8deeZg 6jhigVa V commitments, policies and community development programmes.
During 2005-06, These personnel include field workers they undertook compliance who live in and around areas where management, impact assessment, we operate.
measurement and monitoring, and continuous improvement programmes.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 29 HSE Steward System at Tuticorin An innovative HSE Steward System was introduced at Tuticorin on an experimental basis in 2004-2005 to improve standards.
This system has gained widespread acceptance from employees of all units and has resulted in tangible improvements in areas of health, hygiene, housekeeping, safety and environment.
The total smelter complex has been divided into 28 areas and each area is owned by one designated HSE steward who implements the HSE system in totality in his her own area.
In addition, six HSE representatives from the units HSE department work with these stewards to ensure the system is implemented effectively.
So far, 16 rounds of audits have been carried out and the compliance level has been over 90%.
Though the HSE Steward System was introduced as a penalty-based system, enough care as been exercised in terms of empowering the stewards so that they are motivated.
Improvement and sustainability are the two key focus areas in the HSE Steward System.
So far, 16 rounds of audits Memberships of Charters Safety have been carried out at Tuticorin and and Institutions The highlights of our initiatives in safety the compliance level has been over 90%.
We are committed to engaging in are provided below.
discussions on sustainable development The implementation of this system at the international level.
We therefore Safety Committees was successfully completed at track the issues raised by various Safety committees are in place at BALCO during 2005-06.
At HZL, the organisations relevant to our sector in different levels within the Group to implementation is still in progress forums like the International Council on review incidents, suggest improvements due to their wider spread of operations Mining and Metals ICMM and World in safety systems and to implement risk and activities, however it is showing Business Council for Sustainable reduction and training to prevent satisfactory results.
Safety committees at individual units have been strengthened Green Card Reporting System HSE and Community in terms of representation, frequency of A green card reporting system has been Development Initiatives meetings and the implementation introduced at BALCO for improving shop Individual units within Vedanta set of suggestions.
This system is accompanied short-term targets to be achieved in by a yellow red cards system for 2005-2006 which were appropriate BALCO has introduced a drop box safety violators.
to their operations, technology, and system to invite safety suggestions and previous years performance.
Our concerns from employees, which are Audits performance on occupational health then reviewed and implemented.
Internal and external audits were and safety, environment, and undertaken by specialists or other community initiatives is highlighted in HSE Steward System relevant agencies.
During the year, the subsequent sections of this report.
We have started the HSC Steward these looked at the operations System at Tuticorin and have replicated identifying risks and hazards, whilst similar systems at BALCO, MALCO and also recommending preventive HZL as a result of the success at measures.
These audits have provided valuable feedback to the operational teams to assist with improving safety risks.
Training As a policy we provide initial and periodic training to all employees and contractors.
At some locations, such as in Korba, Tuticorin and Chanderiya, 5S training was provided to employees to embed safety as a way of working, rather than as an add-on to normal job requirements.
The system of recording all incidents, including first aid cases and near-misses, was further enforced at all units during the year.
During the year, a total of 25,829 employees, including the contractors, were given HSE training.
As a result of this training, significant performance improvements have been achieved across the Groups operations.
30 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued The Group has placed considerable 2,186 at BALCO, 296 at MALCO, 3,353 at Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate emphasis on observing safety systems Sterlite, 18,048 at KCM and 12 at CMT.
LTIFR and precautions from the planning LTIFR across the Groups operations stage of projects during the year.
Specific focus was given on checking showed a significant reduction of over Dedicated safety teams have been the following: 30% during the year reducing from 5.50 formed for new projects.
Adherence audiometry, tuberculosis, noise in 2004-05 to about 3.84 during the with rigorous safety systems and induced hearing loss NIHL, year.
The LTIFR performance of various associated compliance have been made silicosis and pneumoconiosis at KCM: businesses is shown below.
audiometry, silicosis and blood lead level up to 40mg 100 ml at HZL: Several initiatives have been Vedanta remains committed to audiometry, eye check and lung responsible for an improved safety achieving zero fatalities and serious disease at BALCO: and performance during the year, including: injuries in all its operations.
Despite new surveillance programmes Safety performance being treated Vedantas continued focus on safety, monitoring NIHL, lead poisoning, holistically with other business there were, unfortunately, nine three arsenic poisoning, toxic anaemia, parameters.
permanent employees and six contract fluorosis, dermatitis and Strictness in the use of personal workforce fatalities at our operational neumoconiosis, at Sterlite, Tuticorin.
protective equipment such as units during the year.
These included helmets and safety shoes.
five at KCM Zambia, three at HZL and Wherever required, medical treatment Regular site visits to identify and one at BALCO.
HSE committees have and counselling has been provided as a prevent unsafe acts and conditions.
investigated all these incidents and result of these checks.
Successful establishment of the HSE action has been taken to prevent the Steward System at Tuticorin, which is recurrence of of such incidents.
An occupational health surveillance being replicated at other units.
facility was started at Tuticorin, which Adherence to the Work Permit Occupational Health included the provision of company System at BALCO and MALCO.
Unit operations maintained, and, in mediclaim coverage to all employees Regular audits by experts in relevant many instances, improved occupational and their families, half-yearly health areas such as safety, fire, HAZOP, etc.
health surveillance programmes for all check-ups for all employees and Contractor safety performance employees and contractors during the contractors working in hazardous monitoring.
These included specific workrelated checks based on exposure to locations, a total ban on the use of Creation of a transport emergency occupational hazards.
asbestos gloves and replacement with plan.
leather and Kevlar hand gloves and the Introduction of proper risk Of the total number of 28,198 provision of appropriate PPE.
A assessment before commencing examinations completed across our programme was initiated to map the critical tasks.
Group operations, 4,303 were at HZL, occupational health of all employees and contractors, based on the ADHI I B: C?JGN :G:FJ:C8N G6I:H significance of exposures.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 31 Ausmelt Technology Adoption in Chanderiya At Chanderiya smelter ausmelt technology is adopted.
The off-gases from the ausmelt furnace contain varying percentage of SO, depending on the process cycle, which 2 cannot be handled in acid plant due to its operational limitations.
State-of-the-art technology provided by M s Cansolv Technologies Inc. Canada has been adopted at the cost of INR 290 million.
This patented technology uses an aqueous amine solution, Cansolv Absorbent DS, to achieve high efficiency selective absorption of sulphur dioxide from a large variety of gas streams.
The scrubbing by-product is pure, water saturated SO gas recovered by steam stripping which can be converted to sulphuric acid or 2 sulphur.
Both the Cansolv SO scrubbing system and the absorbent have excellent 2 health and safety properties.
This process uses the fact that SO is absorbed in a cold amine solution and can be 2 easily released from the solution desorbed when the SO laden solution is heated.
This 2 absorption process is highly selective for SO and is also easily reversible.
By using this 2 circle-type process, the SO can be separated from the other gaseous parts of the SO 2 2 gas.
This separation of SO from the other gaseous compounds allows the release of 2 the non-absorbed gases to the atmosphere and production of a flow of concentrated SO gas, which is easily fed into the sulphuric acid plant.
"2 By bringing awareness of efficient EG B6GN L6I:G use of water in the colony and '%% ""% %% villages a reduction of 1,000 m3 day '%% ""% was achieved."
%% A sewage treatment plant of 150 KLD capacity for reusing the treated %% water in green belt development is under installation.
%% As a result of these efforts, MALCO was awarded the National Award for '%% excellence in water management by &%% CII in 2005.
% BALCO OA H OA B 76A8D B6A8D HI:GA I: @8B 8BI The following projects for reduction in 3 primary water consumption were taken HZL S-smelter, BALCO, MALCO, KCM and Sterlite: m mt of metal.
3 3 HZL M-Mine : m mt of metal in concentrate CMT: m mt of concentrate.
Some of these have already been implemented Environment During 2005-06, we were able to while others are expected to be We remain committed to the efficient conserve water due to initiatives implemented by mid- 2007.
Once use of all resources.
Many of our Indian such as improved metering and completed, we expect a reduction in our operations made significant progress in measurement systems, minimisation primary water requirement of about 3 implementing their commitments to the of leakages, other specific initiatives to 10,000 m day.
Charter on Corporate Responsibility for further reduce water consumption, and Dry ash evacuation system in the Environmental Protection CREP, reuse recycling of treated wastewater 270 MW power plant.
which included significantly reducing and mine water, which together resulted Dry red mud disposal.
sulphur dioxide emissions, achieving in a reduction in primary water Recycling of kiln cooling water in zero discharge of waste water, improved consumption, despite increased levels alumina plant.
handling and disposal of hazardous of production at many of our operations.
Introduction of dry scrubbing system wastes and improvements in in GCP instead of the current wet housekeeping and on-site plantations.
The specific initiatives that helped in scrubbing process.
reducing water consumption are Treatment and recycling of backwash Water Consumption summerised below.
water in the water treatment plant.
Reduction and Reuse Use of treated sewage water for Water is a key resource which is MALCO gardening in the townships.
primarily required for cleaning and The commissioning of a cooling tower Reduction in water consumption in cooling in many of our operations.
for vacuum pump for hydrate filtration townships by eliminating wastages.
Water management is therefore a and the revamping of the evaporator Use of industrial recycled water in critical element in our mining activities, cooling tower, along with the the in-plant utilities.
particularly in respect of mine modification of the water pipeline fide-watering.
system for the Properzi cooling tower control, achieved a total reduction of 3 1,500 m day of water.
32 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued Conserve natural resources, raw materials, water and energy by process improvements, recycling and reducing waste including waste utilisation Vedanta HSE Policy, June 2005 fide-dusting systems, the use of HZL Aluminium evaporation retardant tailing dams, In order to achieve zero discharge of BALCO and MALCO initiated the and the construction of a reclaimed water, HZL aims to recycle 100% of its phasing out of the wet scrubbing 3 water reservoir of 50,000m capacity treated water.
A number of water system in their old smelters and are for storing water drawn from the conservation initiatives were taken at the installing dry scrubber systems to tailing dam, thereby reducing the HZL smelters and mines during the year.
Approximately INR 500 million and At Zawar mines, the recycling of At the Chanderiya smelter, new hydro INR 162.5 million, respectively, have surplus underground mine water and aussmelt smelters resulted in been invested in these scrubber resulted in a reduction of freshwater higher primary water consumption.
consumption in the mill beneficiation However the commissioning and The BALCO smelter also introduced operations.
stabilisation of an RO plant, having a a point-feeding system, which 3 capacity of around 80 m hr, resulted reduces the frequency of anode Sterlite in significant overall reduction during effect resulting in lower fluorine PFC At the Tuticorin unit an additional the last four months of 2005-06. emissions.
Additionally, the lower catchment pond was constructed An additional RO plant is also being anode exposure is also expected to at a cost of INR 80 million for the installed and is expected to be reduce the CO generation due to 2 collection of rainwater during the completed by October 2006, at an lesser oxidation of carbon.
monsoon for reuse in the process estimated cost of INR 75 million.
The installation and commissioning Rainwater harvesting was initiated at Management at the unit have also of the new pot control software will Silvassa by recharging bore wells.
initiated a comprehensive study of enable earlier prediction of anode water management based on the effects thereby reducing fluoride CMT collection, storage, treatment and emissions by faster quenching of Copper Mines of Tasmania in reuse of effluent generated from the AE.
Australia has completed an internal floor washings and rain water.
At MALCO, improving the air quality review of water usage and identified At the Debari smelter, the installation around the ash silo was initiated by a recycling option, which included of an RO plant has also resulted in a providing an ash dust collection return of tailings water, reduction in water consumption.
system using suction from the ESP.
3 neutralisation of acid mine water and About 1,250 m day of treated trade 3 re-circulation of thickener overflow.
effluent and 100 m day of treated Zinc sewage effluent are recycled in the DCDA technology has been adopted Air Emissions processes and also used for at the the Chanderiya lead zinc While our units comply with the gardening.
Similarly at Vizag, an RO smelter hydro plant.
The plant is now applicable regulatory standards, we plant is expected to be installed and consistently achieving SO emissions 2 continue to work towards meeting new completed by March 2007. lower than the current regulatory and evolving standards.
To this end we A 24% reduction in freshwater requirement.
Furthermore three continue to improve processes and consumption per tonne of ore continuous ambient air monitoring technology so as to reduce air treatment was achieved at the stations were installed.
Such proactive planning will Rampura Agucha mine through a A tail gas treatment TGT plant for reduce the long-term costs associated combination of several actions.
reduction in SO emission is being 2 with environmental issues.
These included the retrofitting of installed at Debari and Chanderiya at all thickener with hi-rate system, a cost of INR 200 million.
the use of reclaimed water in all VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 33 Red Mud Utilisation at MALCO The extraction of alumina from bauxite generates a residue known as red mud, which primarily contains process residues, water and caustic soda.
This red mud does not have a ready productive use and storing it involves issues relating to land cost, storage and pollution.
After some focused research it was found that the aluminium, iron and silica oxide constituents of red mud have potential uses in cement manufacturing as a replacement for low-grade additives like bauxite and laterite.
On the basis of this research and subsequent trials MALCO has been able to find an application for the surplus red mud in cement manufacturing.
In 2005-06, 76% of the red mud produced, about 110,000 tonnes, was used in cement manufacturing at nearby plants.
Since January 2006 all the mud produced in the plant has been successfully used in cement manufacturing.
The hydraulic vacuum sweeper at The improvement of fluoride recovery Copper Chanderiya has become an integral efficiency by using a dry scrubbing SO emissions are being brought 2 part of housekeeping thereby system at BALCO: down at Tuticorin with the installation reducing SPM levels within the The use of waste heat gases in place of a TGT plant at the cost of INR complex.
of conventional fuels for calcinations 70 million.
Emissions from particulate matter at BALCO: and All ambient air quality stations have from slag grinding at the Debari A waste heat recovery boiler in the been converted to on-line for SO, 2 smelter were reduced to less than ISA smelter at Tuticorin.
SPM and Nox with a centralised 3 100mg Nm.
This was achieved by display.
modifying and replacing bag filters Waste Management A 3 1 convertor modification is being and bag filter clamps and by Our aim is to exceed regulatory added along with TGS to further adjusting the ampere settings compliance requirements for the reduce SO emissions.
reduction of waste generation both At Chanderiya, improvements in zinc at source, during operations and in Climate Change refinery ventilation were achieved by disposal.
Consequently, the Group We have set a strategy at the Group modifying the ducting.
A new focuses on the proper identification, levels to address climate change issues ventilation system has also been characterisation, quantification, by reducing greenhouse gas emissions planned at an investment of INR segregation, storage and disposal of all and we have started developing five 35 million.
Data on waste from all its major projects as activities under the Dust levels at Zawar mines have operations is classified as hazardous or Clean Development Mechanism on the come down significantly as a result of non-hazardous and also as disposable, Kyoto Protocol.
These are: old ductings being replaced with new recyclable or landfill waste, as specified Back pressure turbine projects for ones, the installation of air spray by the applicable regulations.
the utilisation of waste gases from mist and the use of skirt guard and Overburden and waste rock from mines the roaster plant at the Chanderiya impact pads for reducing spillages is systematically stacked in earmarked smelter: in the crusher house.
areas while tailings are disposed of in The reduction of PFC emissions Similarly, acid suppressant mist is tailing dams.
All fly ash generated in our using cell house modifications in being employed in the cell house at Indian operations is used productively in Vertical Stud Sderberg VSS the Vizag smelter.
based at the aluminium smelter at BALCO: 34 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued The following specific waste Zinc Copper management initiatives have been Jarosite from hydrometallurgical The use or disposal of slag, gypsum undertaken in our operations: zinc smelters is disposed of in and vanadium constitute the largest secured and lined containments at waste related concerns for copper Aluminium the Chanderiya smelter.
At Tuticorin, a secure A pioneering initiative taken by technology adopted involves the landfill was constructed this year in MALCO for red mud disposal has stabilisation of jarosite with lime and an attempt to improve hazardous been welcomed by the pollution Portland cement to produce a hard, waste management.
control authorities and is becoming compact and inert mass known as Copper slag is being used in road recognised as a benchmark in the jarofix.
The total capital expenditure construction and abrasives.
A CRRI industry with other aluminium for this exercise was INR 122 million.
study has also initiated a study for manufacturers being advised to This is the second such facility for usage of slag on roads and adopt this practice.
jarosite disposal in the world.
BALCO is moving towards the A moore cake treatment plant has The use of this slag with cement is dry disposal of red mud, while been installed at the Debari smelter, also being explored.
The NCCBM has currently red mud is disposed of at a cost of INR 120 million, for completed a study for use of slag in earmarked ponds.
recovery of zinc from moore cake with cement and has recommended Our aluminium operations have been and the reduction in hazardous its use at the level of 3% at raw able to achieve a 66% uptake of red waste load.
material stage and 33% in clinker mud by the cement industries after At the Debari smelter, anode mud is stage.
reducing the caustic soda content.
being recycled in the leaching and The highest ever sale of gypsum, MALCO has commenced the disposal cadmium plant to reduce the fresh 70,000mt, was achieved in March after treatment of spent pot lining for MnO consumption.
2006 in comparison to the previous 2 use as fuel.
The TGT plant being installed at years average of monhly 40,000mt.
BALCO also sells its spent pot lining Debari will use zinc oxide in place of for use as fuel in cement industry.
The end product Research studies are being undertaken BALCO has also developed a process produced in the TGT plant will be to reduce the hazardous characteristics for recovery of fluoride salts from recycled in the process eliminating of waste and to ensure the re-use of tunnel dust, ESP dust and carbon the generation of calcium sulphite waste materials.
and sulphate sludge, as would have Efforts are being made to achieve been the case if a lime scrubber had 15% increase in the production of been used thereby this will result in vanadium sludge, which is a bylower hazardous waste generation.
product in the alumina refinery and Waste rock at the Zawar and Rajpura for production of ferro vanadium Dariba mines is being used for the at BALCO.
Similarly, Construction of secured landfill for the Rampura Agucha mine has the safe disposal of hazardous waste started using waste rock in road at BALCO has commenced at a cost construction.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 35 Encouraged by such support the team at administrative responsibility for the Midday Meal Sponsorship HZL approached the State government kitchens is discharged by the State The Rajasthan State government has with a view to playing a proactive role in government and the actual cooking is introduced the cooked midday meals the implementation of the scheme.
This undertaken by the Nandi Foundation.
programme in all primary schools in the was the first ever endeavour of Public The unique aspect of this project is its State.
The coverage of midday meal Private Partnership in this specific area.
scaleability and the cooperation between programmes has steadily expanded, and A tri-partite partnership between the various agencies to help improve, along cooked lunches have rapidly become part Government of Rajasthan, the Nandi with health enrolment, attendance and of the daily school routine across the Foundation, a Hyderabad-based NGO and retention of children in primary schools.
Jean Dreze the noted economist HZL was formed which focused on observes a recent survey suggests that providing cooked nutritious quality midday school meals have made a promising start meals for the school-going children in the around the country.
Yet, quality issues three Districts of Rajasthan, namely need urgent attention if midday meal Bhilwara, Udaipur and Chittorgarh.
programmes are to realise their full Within this partnership HZL set up potential.
Improved midday meal centralised kitchens to cook daily midday programmes could have a major impact on meals for 55,000 primary school-going school attendance, child nutrition, and children at a cost of INR 11 million.
The hydro smelter at Chanderiya In addition to the above, the following Energy Conservation uses a cathode of power 3,000 kwh initiatives have resulted in a All our units have shown a high degree mt compared to a normal reduction of energy consumption by of commitment to the cause of energy requirement of 3,435 kwh mt 8 GJ mt of product: conservation.
of metal: The replacement of old inefficient The slag mill at Rampura Agucha Vacuum pumps in RMF and HF As a result of our energy conservation mine has achieved an energy saving areas in the alumina plant: programmes and captive power of over 10% during the year: The replacement of energy generation facilities, we have been able Both HZL and Sterlite have installed inefficient motors in the alumina to reduce power drawn from local waste heat recovery boilers: plant: electricity grids.
"Zawar mines improved the power The installation of VFDs in the factor by installing an auto power filtrate aluminate liquor pump EG B6GN :C:G N factor control system and reduced 1 and 2 in the alumina plant: &'% '%% $% specific fuel consumption in CPP by The reduction of the impeller size '%% ""% &%% optimising its operation: in the identified pumps: -% Rajpura Dariba mines replaced the Reducing AE duration from % cyclone feed pump direct current 3.4 min to 3.0 min by better % drive with variable frequency drive at operational discipline in the '% the cost of INR 1.35 million resulting smelter: % in further energy savings: Introduction of dry paste OA H OA B 76A8D B6A8D HI:GA I: @8B 8BI At Rampura Agucha mines, energy preparation systems in the conservation drives and the smelter: and HZL S-smelter, BALCO, MALCO, KCM and Sterlite: GJ mt implementation of recommendations Using shot blasted clean studs in of metal."
from CII audits resulted in a the smelter.
HZL M-Mine : GJ mt of metal in concentrate.
reduction in energy consumption: MALCO saved 936 kwh d of energy by major projects undertaken included installations of VFDs and saved 900 Total energy use fuel and electricity the installation of AC drives in the kwh d of energy by auto control in the amounted to 41 million GJ during the first stage cyclone feed pumps, soda tank and dilution tank.
Energy conservation efforts at optimisation of the running hours of energy saving projects completed Vedanta in that period included energy compressors, installation of a ball included the addition of a flash drum in audits and the identification of energy sorter, adopting six sigma tools and the auto-clave condensate circuit and efficiency projects, such as the use of installing new screw compressor a temperature control loop in the third energy efficient equipment.
The current with VFD for instrument air: digester and plate heat exchanger.
Group policy for technology selection is BALCOs new smelter employs a prebased on primary energy consumption baked technology wherein power criteria, as illustrated by the following consumption is 13,500 kwh mt as examples: compared to the VSS technology in the existing smelter that consumes 17,618 kwh mt of primary aluminium: 36 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued Sustainable Environments for Sustainable Development Left: the SHG at BALCO tending their barren forestland into a productive farm land using alternative cropping patterns Right: greening the environment with their tree plantation drive at Yercaud Mines at MALCO business heads, at the unit level, each Madras School of Social Work.
We used Communities unit has a CSR department with tools like Participatory Rural Appraisal The Other Side of Mining: personnel qualified in either rural PRA, personal contact programmes, Sustainability Beyond Business development or social work.
The village meetings and focused group This section provides an insight into our development catalysts or field workers discussions to map their needs.
This commitment to environmental and who are local to the area they operate served four purposes: social performance with practical in are important members of our It involved the community examples of our actions, including case outreach team.
in identifying and prioritising studies showing how Vedantas people their issues contribute to sustainable development These development catalysts are It brought to the fore the real needs in their daily lives.
experienced people from within the of the community Group who have moved roles to the CSR It helped effective planning, We have adopted an approach whereby department and given formal training in prioritisation, allocation of budgets we integrate environmental and social CSR.
We enrolled 25 members of the and implementation of a holistic aspects of our business into our decisionteam on a 12-day Orientation development plan making framework.
For us this means a Programme in Rural Development It ensured stakeholder participation proactive participation in enhancing the at the National Institute of Rural in the development process.
quality of life in the communities in the Development.
At present regions where we operate.
the CSR team consists of 40 people.
All our interventions have a threefive year sustainable perspective in line with Last year we appointed a Group CSR Approach How we Manage our CSR our business planning process.
We Manager and site-level managers to Stakeholder engagement is the key to define our role as that of a proactive provide focus to our CSR initiatives.
This any successful CSR intervention.
To enabler and partner in development.
We year, we consolidated the process by understand the needs of the community map the needs of the community and further embedding the CSR function and plan a suitable response we acting upon them in collaboration with within the Group.
We have sharpened conducted a base-line survey and need those communities, Government, NGOs our focus this year with each unit having assessment.
At some places this was and INGOs.
an annual business plan guided by our done internally and at others through Social Policy.
Spearheaded by the Group external agencies like the Department Based on the results of the study we CEO and the CSR Manager, at the of Social Work, Loyola College and have developed a holistic focus in corporate level, and by the respective She was not only expected to work to earn have also been paired with the younger Sharper Pencils money, but also to help her mother with ones to ensure continuity of support Sharper Minds the everyday chores.
But Karthika knew beyond school and the study centres.
It is a that if they were ever to improve their sentiment echoed by Karthika.
I want The eldest of six children from the remote situation, she had to do more than fetch other children especially girls to know that village in rural Tamil Nadu, 13 year old water and work in the fields.
one has to face challenges in life, most of Karthikas biggest battle in life has been to all for education.
This is important as continue her education.
With girls in her Despite the odds she now attends regular without it, you cant change your life or impoverished community dropping out from school and is enrolled in class X.
formal education and with her father not does so is thanks to her enrolment at earning, she has had to overcome many Sterlites evening study centre.
The centre obstacles in her quest for learning.
A few takes children who have dropped out or visits to the evening study centre conducted having problems with their education by Sterlite in Tuticorin changed her life.
because of financial reasons or sheer lack of support and guidance for education.
At It was so interesting, she said.
I knew the centres they are given intensive then I had to continue my education.
Her coaching, individual tutoring where need first hurdle was convincing her parents.
The older ones VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 37 Women Empowerment The Sterlite Matri Mangal Post Graduate Girls College started its journey as a centre offering skill development courses for women.
Set up in 1938 at Ringus in Rajasthan, the centre today functions as a residential post graduate college.
Rajasthan is one of the more traditional societies in the country where women still exist in the purdah system and accessibility to education especially for female children is still uncertain.
The college is a unique story of empowerment especially given its location.
Today it is a prominent education centre for girls from 65 neighboring villages.
This year, with an enrolment of 746 students and 22 teachers, the college offered programmes in social sciences and humanities, science and home science at undergraduate levels.
The postgraduation programmes conducted in the regional language of Hindi are popular in courses like literature, political science and public administration.
Equipped with stateof-the-art laboratories and library, sports and cultural facilities, debates and festivals, the college offers a wide range of opportunities.
Women graduates from the college pursue careers as home-makers, bureaucrats, professors, entrepreneurs and teachers.
Our significant Rotary Club crucial.
Pre-school centres are run by interventions are: Bright Vision Society the Group in nearly all of our units for Social Investment in areas which Society for Selfless Social Service children between the ages of two and empower the social fabric of the US Agency for International six years to address this gap.
These village namely health, education and Development USAID centres are run in partnership with the livelihood.
International Finance Corporation Sterlite Foundation, an NGO with Bio Investment which addresses the Confederation of Indian Industries expertise in this field.
We operate 21 interlinked components of water TERI such centres at Tuticorin, Udaipur and harvesting, agriculture and social District Disability Rehabilitation in Orissa covering more than 800 forestry.
Besides providing quality The Environment component of Hanuman Van Vikas Samiti education through play, these centres community intervention focuses on Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahitya also serve a nutritious meal each day planting trees, conservation and Samiti and conduct regular health check-ups promoting eco-technologies.
Tamil Nadu Voluntary Health and take anthropometric Association TNVHA measurements.
Our work usually focuses on the area District Health Department within a 10 kilometre radius of our District Education Society At Sterlite, we have equipped 20 existing operations.
NABARD ICDS-run pre-school centres with a DRDA kitchen, boundary walls and play Each unit has developed a threefive year Farm Science Centre Krishi Vigyan materials.
MALCO has built a new horizon for their CSR interventions which Kendra.
building for one of its pre-school is broken down into an annual work plan.
centres and repaired another one.
Both Monitoring and review of these work BALCO and HZL are also signatories of these centres each have 30 children plans is continuous with monthly reports, the UN Global Compact.
Under Project internal reviews and clearly outlined Pavarish, HZL has renovated a building indicators for success established for Sterlite was adjudged the Best and constructed new toilets for child each activity.
Third party social audits Corporate Blood Donor for 2005-06 in welfare centres in two villages, are conducted every three years.
Tuticorin District by the Tamil Nadu benefiting 80 children.
Voluntary Health Association for Today our community initiatives cover 124 providing the highest number of blood We also run some of the best schools villages, reaching out to more than 1.7 donations from a corporate enterprise.
around our plants for children of the million people within a 10km radius of our employees and from the community at plants.
These cover four States in India Our Interventions large.
At MALCO, 2,700 students study Chattisgarh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Education at the MALCO Vidyalaya.
HZL runs five Orissa and four townships in Zambia.
We believe education plays a vital role Central Board of Higher Secondary in moulding the future and is Education-affliated schools and a State Citizen Partnerships fundamental to prosperity.
To address Board-affiliated school in five unit Forging partnerships with unilateral this need in the rural and tribal terrain locations.
It caters for a population of and bi-lateral organisations is where we operate, we have developed 3,057 children of which 1,703 children important to us.
We work with many an all-encompassing approach to came from a rural background this year.
corporate responsibility organisations, education with interventions in preincluding: school centres Bal Wadis, formal At VAL in Lanjigarh, we run one school The Global Health Initiative to schools, study centres, infrastructure under the Education Guarantee Scheme Stop Tuberculosis of the World and study material support along of the Government for 114 children from Economic Forum with scholarships, sports, and three villages.
The Kendriya Vidyalaya Care India cultural activities for the for all-round at BALCO is run in association with State governments development of children and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and is Sterlite Foundation adults alike.
affiliated to the Central Board of Higher District AIDS Control Society Secondary Education.
The school District Blindness Control Society Formal schooling in the rural and tribal has 976 students and 41 staff, District Agriculture Department belts only starts at the age of six.
Government Veterinary Department first five years of a childs life are most 38 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued Empowered Women Empowered Societies at KCM Left: The drivers of the widows cooperative Right: The widows in action at a tailoring session HZL conducts the Sterlite Matri Mangal were provided with notebooks and Support for community sports and Post Graduate Girls College at Ringus.
At MALCO, three outstanding recreation at Konkola Copper Mines This residential college imparts higher students were supported in their shows that sport plays an important education to 725 rural and tribal girls engineering education.
A unique facility, 82% of the materials were also donated to 51 policy of supporting the development of women enrolled come from nearby students at a primary school in sports in its areas of operation.
KCM villages, of which 46% are married.
Tharamangalam and the elementary also provides support on an annual school at Thippampatti for 85 children basis through sponsorship of events At Sterlite, the Evening Study Centres was renovated.
HZL provided undertaken at KCM-owned sports have ensured continuity in education for scholarships for 72 outstanding clubs.
During the year, KCM supported children.
Fifteen study centres run by students selected at District-level the Nchanga Open Youth Golf college-going girls and boys reach out in Chittorgarh.
Golf Club in Chingola also hosted the Four non-formal education centres Nchanga Open Youth tournament.
Rural Talent Search, a sponsorship providing basic literacy skills for adult Ninety-five youths participated at the scheme run by the government of Tamil women are run at BALCO in Korba.
The Konkola Open Golf Nadu, enables 100 students from each classes, which operate three times a Tournament, September 2005 was District to receive scholarship of INR week, are conducted by trained persons hosted by the Konkola Golf Club at the 1,000 each to pursue their education.
from the respective villages and have 88 course in Chililabombwe.
The event The entrance exam run at the Statewomen enrolled.
attracted 42 players from across level is highly competitive.
MALCO support this scheme by running Project Jyoti is an employee volunteer coaching classes for students who wish program run at BALCO.
Twelve Chingola Arts Society CAS is the to take the exam.
185 students sat the employees volunteer an hour-a-week most active theatrical club in Zambia.
to spend time with the tribal children Members from the community run the teaching and mentoring them.
CAS gives awards for outstanding Scholarships to support students actors and performances annually at is a crucial part of the education HZL, under the Guru Govalkar Scheme the Banham Awards.
In December 2005, programme, having two purposes of the government of Rajasthan, has KCM supported the Banham Awards, serving as a great morale booster, and provided facilities for 27 villages.
So far held at Chingola Arts theatre, ensuring continuity which might they have built two classrooms and sponsoring four out of the 17 award otherwise be lost due to the lack of constructed an 8km long link road to categories.
Across Vedanta, connect two villages.
At Zawar mines, companies have instituted various a 9km long road connecting three 10 youth clubs at Lanjigarh which scholarships to meet local needs.
villages was constructed under the conduct their activities in partnership Project Utkarsh at BALCO is a StatePradhanmantri Gram Sadak Yojana with VAL.
During the year they level scholarship supporting eight Scheme.
organised two football and cricket students this year to pursue their tournaments each and five cultural engineering education in premier HZL constructed two classrooms for programmes.
institutes like IIT, BITS, and NIT.
In a senior secondary school in Puttholi addition, BALCO supports nine schools, village, which caters to five nearby Temples are the focal meeting and benefiting 3,900 children in Balco villages.
bonding points for communities in the Township.
We give the schools INR 50 Indian culture.
This year at VAL, we per student up to the 8th standard and Sports instil a spirit of competitiveness built seven temples in seven villages INR 100 per student from the 9th to the and bonding among children.
MALCO and renovated the Shevarayan temple 12th standard as a subsidy.
At Sterlite, co-sponsored the Coimbatore regional at Yercaud.
Community halls are scholarships were instituted in VOC sports meet for the ITI students, centres for a lot of cultural and College, Tuticorin to help five needy training for 90 sports personnel for the community activity.
At Sterlite we meritworthy students throughout the National Forest Sports Meet and the supported the construction of one course tenure from this year.
In State-level Taekwondo Sports Meet at such centre at Madathur, contributing addition, about 1,400 school-age Salem, where 114 sports personnel INR 400,000 and engineering support.
children in coastal and rural regions from all over the State participated.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 39 Recognising students of merit, the Deputy Ten students won the Junior Scientist Providing Basic Education Chairman has instituted the Sterlite award.
Best teachers and students awards Malco Vidyalaya is located in 12 acres of Scholarship an award of INR 15, 000 every are also awarded.
A strong Parent Teacher land at Mettur in Tamil Nadu.
It has been in year for the top three students in Plus Two Association PTA provides strong support existence for more than 30 years.
With a examinations to pursue an education in to the school.
committed team of 119 staff the schools engineering in reputable colleges in India.
mission is to promote excellence in the Another 10 scholarships are awarded to field of education.
It has 2,630 students, students excelling in Class X.
Last year 40 from kindergarten to the 12th Standard, of students enrolled for engineering in whom only 8% are the children of further education colleges on merit.
Supported completely by Students bought home awards as District MALCO, the school has been rated as one champions in art and literary competition of the best schools in Salem District.
Under the R&R plan at VAL 66 youths bed hospital with an annual patient by pregnant women, counselling of from rehabilitated families were turnover of 14,600.
Two health care eligible couples on family planning and promised employment with the Group.
facilities have been set up at VAL for promotion of small family norms by the Most of them were uneducated and both employees and members of the distribution of condoms and oral pills in being unskilled were not employable.
The first one, a first aid the four districts of Jdaipur, Bhilwara, The youths were divided into three centre, is at the VAL plant site and the Chittorgarh and Rajsamund.
In the first phase they were second is a dispensary at Niyamgiri taught basic literacy in Lanjigarh by a Vedanta Nagar.
We are members of the India Business retired school principal.
In the second Alliance to Stop Tuberculosis TB.
This phase they enrolled for ITI training at a An outreach component of the health initiative is a joint collaboration between college in Bhawnipatna.
In the third programme is the mobile rural health the Revised National TB Control phase they undergo a personality camps which are run across the Group.
Programme of the Government of India training programme at Entrepreneur These are run especially where health RNTCP, a Global Health Initiative of Development Institute Bhubaneshwar infrastructure is missing.
At BALCO, the the World Economic Forum and various and in the last phase they will be 187 general health camps were Indian companies.
Our interventions are enrolled in an internship for six months conducted in four villages benefiting at two levels: at the workplace and before joining the Group.
Similarly, at VAL these through outreach in the community.
first batch is in the third phase, the camps are both general, and addressing BALCO implemented the DOTS second batch in the second phase and diseases like malaria, diarrhea, skin programme in the villages via the health the third batch is in phase one.
More than 12,000 workers who help identify the disease people took advantage of these camps and administer drug too.
The MALCO Celebrating International Womens Day, and 700 children were immunised.
The Clinic at Mettur is an authorised DOTS HZL organised a talk at its Chanderiya dispensary at Niyamgari Vedanta Nagar Centre, providing care, treatment and unit for women from nearby villages.
is a focal point for all basic health care preventive measures for TB.
Fourteen More than 50 women participated and facilities and provides for 7,200 people.
patients are under going such discussed social issues like female HZLs camps on eye care, family treatment.
VAL also implemented the foeticide and girls education.
planning, immunisation, yoga and DOTS programme in the villages.
pediatrics have helped more than 9,000 Health people.
Similarly the multi-specialty AIDS is a problem which we are seeking Our health programme delivers curative clinics and outreach camps at MALCO to address head-on by reaching out to and preventive health services.
Most of provided quality health care to over the employees internally, the our health programmes are run in 3,918 people.
MALCO also conducted communities around our operations, the partnership with the District Health major awareness drives and screening supply chain and beyond.
Authorities or other authorities in the camps covering issues like TB, AIDS, field.
Advocacy is an essential and leprosy during local festivals and Korba has 1,500 trucks onsite each day.
Our fairs, reaching out to more than 100,000 These carry migrant populations who health interventions include Group-run people in the process.
They also are at risk of HIV AIDS this is a major hospitals, mobile health services, conducted a rally on tuberculosis along risk to the community around too.
We general and specific health camps and with students from the local school and planned an HIV AIDS awareness awareness drives.
organised a quiz competition on leprosy campaign targeting truckers and sex for the school children.
This sought to create The Group runs state-of-the-art awareness and equip both the groups hospitals and clinics which not only look Under the National Rural Mission of the with the right information.
Special after employees and their dependants, Government of India, more than 22,000 awareness camps and street plays were but also provide care for the people took advantage of the health also organised.
Literature and free communities at large.
At HZL, we have care mobile clinics organised by HZL condoms were distributed.
One-on-one six hospitals in six locations with a and the Health Department in nearby counselling was offered where needed.
central hospital at Udaipur providing villages.
Primarily conducted on the Taking a cross-community approach, quality health care for 230,249 patients Maternal and Child Health Day, it aimed we worked with NGOs like SROUT, through a team of 119 qualified doctors, to improve the health status of children ASTHA, CARE INDIA, IMME and the nurses, technicians and other support against the six killer diseases through District AIDS Control Society on World staff.
Similarly at BALCO we run a 100- an immunisation drive, IFA consumption AIDS Day.
40 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued HIV AIDS Management Programme Left and right: The health clinic accelerating access to health interventions at KCM information generated during the pilot Indicators like VCT uptake monthly, Unseen Perspective phase provided input for the production PMTCT uptake monthly, ARV uptake The HIV AIDS epidemic has had a major of the final Resource Handbook on HIV quarterly, HIV AIDS-related hospital impact on the Zambian economic and AIDS, which will be used worldwide in admissions monthly, HIV AIDS-related social structure.
It is against this addressing issues of the pandemic.
The deaths monthly and awareness through backdrop that KCM launched an HIV AIDS IFC HIV AIDS Guide for the Mining Sector annual surveys are monitored closely by Programme in 2001 that aimed at raising was officially launched on 1 December an internal team to assess the impact.
awareness to prevent and control the 2004 by Dr. Kenneth Kaunda, Patron of The programme annually is assessed by spread of HIV AIDS.
To better understand the KCM HIV AIDS Programme as part external auditors too.
the magnitude of the threat and allow for of World AIDS Day celebrations.
No effort to reduce the spread of HIV AIDS an appropriate response, KCM In February 2004, a Memorandum of can be effective unless the process is commissioned an HIV AIDS anonymous Understanding was signed with the ongoing.
Going forward we have plans to prevalence study in 2001.
About 7,000 Comprehensive HIV AIDS Management enhance the entire range of services and employees representing 64% of the Programme CHAMP to implement the align ourselves with more partners.
This Business Response for Access to HIV needs are urgent, the goals are ambitious, was followed by an AIDS audit to analyse AIDS Treatment BRAT Programme.
and with our collective effort, they are knowledge, attitudes and practices, 122 youths were recruited in Chingola to also reachable.
KAP and study the impact of HIV on the undertake the KAP Survey for CHAMP in company.
The prevalence survey revealed Outreach Tools the implementation of the BRAT a severe and advanced epidemic with an programme.
The KCM Business Response for Access Ratio Peer Educators: Employees 1:49 to Treatment HIV AIDS Programme and KCM planned an HIV AIDS control VCT Centres 14 the Voluntary Counselling and Testing programme with a mission to minimise Training of trainers 28 Expansion and Mobilisation for Access to the social, economic and developmental Community organisers 30 HIV AIDS Treatment was launched in consequences of the epidemic to the Health care providers 48 June 2004. company, employees and community in Counsellers 92 The KCM HIV AIDS programme was which it operates i. e. Konkola, Nchanga, Community care givers 101 enhanced with the BRAT intervention.
In addition a Peer educators 279 23 March 2005, KCM signed a Statement non-discriminatory HIV AIDS Policy was ARV uptake 300 of Collaboration with the United States drawn up for employees.
Community educaters 2,097 International Development Agency VCT uptake 7,004 In combating HIV AIDS, various strategies USAID, Comprehensive HIV AIDS Testing Kits 8,000 were adopted like Voluntary Counseling Management Programme and all major Workplace sensitisation 13,400 and Testing VCT, Condom distribution: Zambian Mining Companies under the Community sensitisation 17,000 Syndromic treatment of sexually Global Development Alliance GDA.
The Educational materials 87,500 transmitted illnesses: Prevention of purpose of the GDA is to provide support Condom Distribution 7,320,000 Mother to Child Transmission PMTCT : to HIV and AIDS workplace programmes Targeted Health Education: Support and and through these workplace treatment of opportunistic infections: programmes to the employees, Community Outreach, and Home-based dependants and identified outreach care.
These strategies have been communities of the alliance partners.
enhanced over the years: The programme is completely communityIn 2002, KCM implemented the PMTCT based and participatory.
KCM peer of HIV with assistance from the educaters, voluntary members from the Ministry of Health who provided the community along with a rigorous initial training and infant formula.
sensitisation programme like weekend In March 2004, KCM agreed to pilot the public film shows, drama presentations, International Finance Corporations electronic billboard advertising, pay slip IFC Draft HIV AIDS Guide for the messages, e-mail communication, Mining Sector with its stakeholders.
messages on the intranet, CEOs monthly This exercise provided an opportunity message, KCM weekly radio programme, for mine supply companies to draw on Konkola news health column, and IECs like KCMs expertise and experience to leaflets, pamphlets, posters and banners initiate and establish awareness and are the key players of the programme.
The VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 41 namely Budhima Mahila Samiti.
The group product and participates in District level From a Daily Wage Earner to started with thrift saving of INR 50 per events to explore further markets and an Entrepreneur month.
They were trained to produce advocate hygiene and sanitation.
Her phenyl and were given access to markets.
monthly earnings have improved from 2002: Sulochana Harijan, 45, was a After training the group marketed their INR750 to INR1,000 with opportunities to landless widow, two sons, small hut for a phenyl to the plant and the contractors.
house, earnings INR 2025 per day and With success came confidence and they only odd jobs here and there.
decided to widen their activities and 2005: With the advent of VAL, Sulochana penetrated the local markets with branded has a permanent roof and a rehabilitation phenyl Niyamgiri Phenyl.
Today package with an investment in post office Sulochana, as the president of the group, savings giving her regular income.
She travelling with her team members to towns enrolled to be part of a Self Help Group, to buy raw material, sell the finished KCM is also involved in the fight against Mining Companies under the Global At VAL, 30 people were fitted with lower HIV AIDS.
They have a policy on HIV Development Alliance GDA.
The artificial limbs popularly known as AIDS that protects the confidentiality of purpose of the GDA is to provide Jaipur Foot in India and 23 tricycles employees status, the employees support for HIV and AIDS were also distributed.
This project was right to work and benefits irrespective programmes and through these a collaborative effort between Bhagwan of their status and prohibits workplace programmes for Mahaveer Viklang Samiti, the District discrimination.
In combating HIV AIDS, employees, dependants and Disability Rehabilitation Centre the following strategies have been the wider communities.
developed: voluntary counselling and testing VCT : condom distribution: The Take Home Ration THR Cataract surgeries have been found to syndromic treatment of sexually programme is a State government be a boon in most areas enabling many transmitted illnesses: prevention of scheme administered by the VAL team.
people to become independent again.
mother to child transmission PMCT : It is a nutrition programme for the At BALCO 212 cataract surgeries were targeted health education: support and pregnant and lactating mothers and performed and, in an eye camp in treatment of opportunistic infections: children between the ages of zero and collaboration with the District Blind community outreach: and home based six years.
THR camps are run weekly in Control Society, 57 cataract operations care.
To date, 2,810 people have all the villages.
During the camps were performed at HZL and 12 at VAL in accessed the VCT services.
Awareness children are examined for general collaboration with the Rotary Club.
and prevention campaigns were health, anthropometric measurements undertaken through public film shows, are taken to monitor growth and MALCOs cardiology camp conducted in one-on-one peer dialogue and one-toimmunisation is provided by doctors partnership with Adyar Heart one counselling.
Since August 2005, from the VAL team.
Mothers are also Foundation, Chennai was attended by 53,331 people have attended the public immunised and given iron tablets and a 607 people.
All of them were given blood shows, of whom 50% are below 15 nutritious ready-to-eat mix.
This mix, sugar, cholesterol, ECG, echo scans and years of age.
KCM has also signed a which comes from the Government of physical examinations by the Statement of Collaboration with the Orissa, consists of Orimix a mixture cardiologist.
Fourteen adults and seven United States International of powdered grains, pulses and children were referred for further Development Agency USAID, vegetable oil.
We also sponsored open Comprehensive HIV AIDS Management conducted attended by 2,054 mothers heart surgery for two children identified Programme and all major Zambian and 1,770 children.
during the cardiology camp in Redefining agriculture as a profitable venture with project Kadambari at BALCO 42 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued Work with communities to contribute to their development Vedanta HSE Policy, June 2005 collaboration with the Pondichery Heart the towns in which it operates.
All of the status of the villages and in the Foundation.
More that 12,000 patients 42 townships within the KCM areas of availability of care.
Sterlite has also suffering from cardiac ailments were operation were encouraged by the 132 equipped three primary health centres provided treatment at Hindustan Zinc Community Educators to participate in PHCs with a deep freezer and Cardiology Centre, Udaipur by HZL.
A total of 1,187 houses autoclave machine for sterilisation, entered the competition from which 45 financial assistance for ambulance During KCMs annual Roll Back Malaria were declared as winners.
repair and electrification of the family Programme, prevention and treatment planning operating theatre.
Last year, this During the year, more than 5,000 people conducted a public relations campaign programme covered more than 36,500 benefited from Sterlites rural health and arranged for PHCs to promote the households within a 10km radius of clinics operating in the villages of Pulse Polio Campaign in order to Chililabombwe, Chingola and Madathur, Milavittan, Therkku maintain Polio Free Zone status in our Nampundwe and part of Kitwe.
programme involved anti-malaria These centres are run two days per spraying, drainage clearance and grass week and offer free screening, MALCO has set up a blood donors cutting in partnership with the medication and referral services for club.
The club maintains the database community and the National Malaria general diseases.
In chronic cases of 100 voluntary blood donors in the Control Centre.
The KCM Roll Back patients are referred to the District or region who can be called on during Malaria Programme has been adopted City hospital.
A medical team of a doctor emergencies.
as model for malaria eradication in and a paramedic from Sundaram Zambia.
This year the programme Arulraj Hospital conduct the clinics in Advocacy of good sanitation and hygiene commenced with an indoor residual all of the villages.
Two TB cases were is an important component of the health spraying exercise.
In readiness for the identified and referred for treatment at programme.
At VAL in order to campaign, Konkola Copper Mines, in Tuticorin Government Hospital from the strengthen this, specific sanitation partnership with British Petroleum Madathur Rural Health Centre.
The first drives were conducted in every village trained eight trainers.
To eliminate clinic was set up in 1997 in response to with activities like a cleanliness drive, mosquito breeding sites and promote the need for quality health care for the promotion of the use of mosquito nets, the maintenance of clean surroundings, villagers.
An impact study conducted in and importance of being hygienic.
KCM introduced a garden and house March this year showed a marked Proper drainage systems are crucial in competition for communities in all of improvement in the overall health maintaining hygiene and sanitation.
Women members at Sterlite mapping their village and issues using the Participatory Rural Appraisal tool VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 43 188 women expressed an interest in the trainees in Chililabombwe use the nine Widows Entrepreneurship project with 85 women from Chingola and sewing machines donated by KCM whilst Project KCM Chililabombwe being selected for the those in Chingola use machines provided programme.
These women attended the by the training centre.
Widows and orphans are a vulnerable training on a part-time basis over a six group.
Some widows are responsible for Participants also learnt the art of tie-andmonth period.
They formed a co-operative an average family size of eight members dye, a method of fabric design which is known as the Fipelwa na Lesa Coper household with little or no income.
highly popular in traditional wear.
On operative, which means God given.
The Most widows are engaged in low-income completion of the programme, a review co-operative will: activities such as seasonal agriculture and found the need for a further one-month assist widows of deceased mine the sale of cash crops at local markets.
After skill-training, the employees to set up an incomeThe income generated from these group enrolled on a business management generating project: activities is barely adequate to support programme with the Don Bosco Youth offer life skills for personal and their families, with some families failing to Training Centre to learn the art of running professional growth: and provide even for their childrens education, a business.
The group has now formed a train widows in skills like tailoring and leading to school drop-outs.
working co-operative in garment design for manufacture of PPE for KCM.
manufacturing and obtains business It is against this backdrop that in 2005 The Don Bosco Youth Training Centre a contracts through KCM and other clients.
Konkola Copper Mines undertook a project Chingola-based Catholic institution was KCM provided administrative services for to assist widows of ex-mine employees in identified to provide training for tailoring the formation of the business enterprise, establishing an income-generating project and design.
The six-month course was linking them to the companys through the provision of skills in tailoring conducted at two training sites The Don procurement system.
The programme and design, as well as business Bosco Youth Training Centre and the KCM has now been extended to another group management.
KCM contacted the widows Lower Trust School in Chililabombwe.
of former employees from 2000 to date and Four drains were constructed at VAL behalf of the community.
The total their livelihood the self help group in the rehabilitation colony.
At MALCO outlay of the project is INR 86.4 million.
model seemed most appropriate and a public toilet was constructed for This project is expected to provide effective.
At the heart of these women at Ramamoorthy village and drinking water to 20,000 people in 43 interventions is the need to gain access at Karumulaikoodal High School.
Sterlite also to new resources and opportunities and school has 550 students of which 250 provides 10,000 litres of drinking water to climb out of poverty.
to Milavittan village by tanker, benefiting 100 families each day.
At KCM widows of former KCM Defecation in open spaces is common in employees at Zambia have been rural areas, resulting in the spread of At BALCO under final-JAL Yojna drinking mobilised to form a co-operative.
The merits of water facility was provided for 200 The co-operative manufactures and using a flush toilet were therefore school children in Dhondro village.
supplies protective clothing to KCM.
communicated to the villagers at These children would drink water from KCM has donated nine sewing machines Rogbahary.
A partnership programme the village well, which was not only which are used to train the women.
was developed with the help of the unsafe but hazardous too.
A drinking The training covers tailoring, business beneficiaries and the panchayat and 32 water facility has now been created in management and accessing finance households came forward to build flush the school premises providing a 2,000 for the enterprise.
The programme toilets in their household area.
BALCO litre tank with multiple taps.
The water attracted 85 women and Don Bosco and the panchayat supported this is sourced from a local well with the Youth Training Centre of Chingola was project providing expertise and building help of a submersible pump.
identified as the trainer in tailoring materials, while the facility owners and design for the widows.
The training contributed their own labour.
The trauma centre at BALCO built at a lasted six months and was held on cost of INR 8 million is equipped with an three days a week.
The business At BALCO 10 community volunteers ICU and an emergency trauma care management aspect of the training from six villages were trained in first aid centre.
The new centre has five beds will commence soon.
to serve as Swasth Mitra or health which are remotely controlled and supporters.
They are provided with centrally supervised with individual life Our interventions in micro-enterprise basic first aid kits and equipped to support systems.
Surgery can also be through the Self Help Groups SHG address basic health problems for performed in the beds which can be have been doing well and are poular the villagers.
converted into cabins in less than a with the local population especially the minute.
The centre is also supported women.
Each group has between 10-20 Potable water is another major problem with a state-of-the-art ambulance, women members.
The project is in most villages.
At BALCO in Roghbary which can be converted into an conducted in four phases: the formation village, a 7,000 litre water tank was operation theater in case of of the SHG: thrift saving for six months: built and street taps placed at common emergencies.
the entrepreneurship development locations to address this problem.
programme: and an income generation The project was implemented in Under the Total Sanitation Campaign programme including intensive collaboration with the Gram Panchayat, of the Government of India Project, marketing support to ensure the Jal Nigam, Korba and BALCO.
MALCO HZL has assisted in the construction sustainability of the enterprise.
Once supplies 800,000 litres of potable water of five public toilet complexes in nearby credibility has been established, per day to five villages through villages catering for a population of microfinance from a bank for the pipelines.
HZL on the other hand 5,000 people.
HZL contributed INR enterprise is relatively easy to obtain.
supplied 48.6 million litres of potable 2 million out of a total cost of INR water to 29 villages with a total 10 million.
At Tuticorin, we have partnered with population of over 40,000.
VAL installed Mahaliar Thitam and six NGOs for the eight hand pumps thus making safe Livelihood Sterlite Women Empowerment Project.
Under the Rural people are moving out of natural We are working with 121 SHGs and Central Government Scheme of resource-based occupations.
These 1,815 women members with savings of Swajaldhara Drinking Water Project, transitions are neither simple nor INR 840,000.
More than 43 SHGs are Sterlite contributed INR 714,000 on painless.
Looking at ways to enhance linked to some form of income 44 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued The 20 metre long water channel linking the check dam to 21 acres of farm land at BALCO and the embankment is also the venue for the plantation of 30,000 Jatrophas generation activities like prawn pickle A third SHG with 15 members are Horticulture Department.
Three making, chitin preparation, ornamental currently undergoing training on sewing awareness technical workshops were fish breeding, fish noodles, candle and stitching.
The making, rabbit, goat, pig and poultry farmers were introduced to agricultural rearing to name a few.
At VAL, 22 self help groups with 346 best practice like the use of improved members were trained in thrift saving.
seeds, modern tools and techniques At HZL, 690 women have been trained Of these, two groups have been involved and crop protection through pesticides.
for micro-enterprise management and in phenyl and spice making.
Another SHG are part of 35 SHGs.
Currently they produces detergent powder which is Hybrid seeds were distributed to 200 are in the thrift saving stage.
All our marketed by the Bright Vision Society.
farmers to be used on 15 acres of land.
development interventions on the The group has branded the product as The groups were involved in different ground are conducted through SHGs Style with a punch line of style mein projects.
One of the groups worked on where training is provided for the job on dhone ka, style mein pahene kaa, which two model plots where they cultivated the job.
The entire process is monitored means, wash it in style wear it in style.
and supervised by a three-tier village The monthly revenue of the members is Another SHG identified seven acres of structure being the SHGs committee between INR 1,1001,500.
The other 19 barren forestland in their village for itself, the panchayat and the CSR team.
groups are currently in the thrift saving cash crops like vegetables and phase.
In the coming months they will floriculture and bio-diesel using In this regard, workshops were also form an income generation enterprise jatrophas.
A first in the District the jointly organised with NABARD Gram based on their interest and skill.
A core farmers today earn over INR 5,000 per Panchayats Polytechnic College and aspect in exploring different livelihood month.
Facilitating the process, further District-level government agencies to measures is connectivity.
At VAL we have a 20-metre long water channel was highlight the effectiveness of SHGs as developed five roads, 24km long, and constructed to supply water from the a workable strategy for poverty concreted five internal roads, 1km long, check dam to the fields via a three alleviation.
These kilometre long channel, the infrastructure improvements have embankment of which is being used for At BALCO, two SHGs have been set helped us to provide direct and indirect the plantation of 30,000 jatrophas.
up to make papad an Indian delicacy employment to around 3,000 people.
and dona bowls made from leaves.
HZL trained 50 farmers in The papad-making group sells their Bio Investment vermicompost: an organic manure products in the local market and also At BALCO, land and water resources which is used in their own fields and have a long-term contract with local are plentiful.
Project Kadambri is an sold in the local market.
schools for the midday meals initiative to revitalise agriculture.
They thus have an average tribal farmers of the villages generally HZL also planted 2,200 trees at the monthly income of INR 1,200 per take one paddy crop annually.
We Dudh Talia in collaboration with the member.
The other group produces enrolled three non-functional SHGs to Forest Department under the Social 1,000 donas a day with two machines explore vegetable and fruit cultivation, Forestry Programme.
They have a buy-back floriculture and bio-diesel plantation for the plants for three years before arrangement for the machines with the possibilities.
The programme was handing it over to the Forest machine supplier and earn INR 600 launched in collaboration with an Department.
agronomist from the District Veterinary camps are a common need of most villages.
HZL, in joint collaboration with the Department of Animal Husbandry, helped to immunise 20,000 animals and provide minor surgery The Mansi Wakal Dam treatment.
Simultaneously, through HZl has been an active player in the construction of the Mansi Wakal Dam.
A mammoth personal contact programmes and IEC undertaking of the government of Rajasthan catering for the drinking and irrigation materials, the villages were provided water requirements of the city of Udaipur and the nearby areas.
HZL contributed INR 9.4 with prevention mechanisms against million out of a total expenditure of INR 31.1 million.
Apart from financial assistance, seasonal infection and effective HZL also provided technical expertise.
guidance on cattle nutrition practices.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 45 the art of cooking, the women felt the need Sterlites support and entrepreneurship Bringing Natural Resources for professional training in the art of pickle development training have given these and Skills into Play making to ensure quality, standard and women the confidence to venture into scaleability.
The group underwent 15 days economic activities to supplement family The Sterlite plant is located in the coastal of intensive training on seafood processing income and even be sole bread earners.
region of Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu.
with the Fisheries College, Tuticorin.
They now need further guidance on Integration and innovation are the two key branding and market opportunities.
words which describe this project.
Kadal The group would never have become a comments Ms. Jayarani, Director, Justice Tamira Justice Self Help Group is an model for others had they suppressed their Mahalir Munnetra Iyakam, one of the empowered group of women.
For home makers like partner NGOs.
at possible enterprises, they were clear many other women in the village, life that they wanted to use the locally changed when they took on the job of available resources, their own skills and making and selling prawn pickles.
A group something that could be easily consumed of accomplished entrepreneurs their in the local market for their enterprise.
monthly production of 15 kg supplies a Thus the idea of setting up a prawn pickle select customer base of bank employees making unit was born.
Though proficient in and school teachers.
The Nampundwe population at KCM is farmers installing gobar LEAD India, an associate of LEAD made up of cattle farmers.
Through a tri-partite International organised a Global supply in Nampundwe was previously partnership, the beneficiaries have Training Session GTS for the first erratic which meant that the farmers contributed their labour and raw time in India.
The objective of the GTS had to walk as far as 25km to find water materials like bricks, cement and sand, was to sensitise LEAD associates on for their cattle.
KCM assisted the BALCO have provided skilled labour water governance, forest governance farming community by constructing especially masons and engineers, and and corporate social responsibility.
animal drinking troughs near the CREDA Chattisgarh State Renewable BALCO invited the LEAD associates for tailings dam.
The newly constructed Energy Development Authority a site visit and gave them a first hand animal troughs feed 1,000 cattle.
The provided with technical expertise experience of the CSR activities at troughs are located near the and equipment.
A group of 17 LEAD associates community.
from various countries like Russia, 5,000 saplings have been planted under Mexico, Malaysia, Zambia, Nigeria, KCM has continued its agribusiness the road side plantation and school Brazil, Indonesia, China, Holland, programme to help KCM employees and campus plantation programmes at HZL.
Nepal, and India participated in an retirees undertake smallholder farming interactive session with SHGs in village to provide a sustainable livelihood MALCO conducted a major drive at Dhondru.
The team members were wealth creation, food security and Yercaud to fide-weed and fide-silt the lake given information about Project alternative employment.
Beekeeping to remove all the water hyacinth spread Kadambari, its concept, sustainability, and honey production was undertaken across the lake.
Also as part of the marketing and impact on their lives.
The under a Global Development Alliance Green Yercaud programme, they members expressed a desire to know that KCM forged with various planted saplings on open areas in more about the jatropa plantation.
8,000 saplings were also Group also had a glimpse of AID The Zambia Agribusiness Technical distributed as part of the campaign awareness programme being carried Assistance Centre ZATAC conducted at Yercaud and 6,600 saplings were out by our village teams through street training in beekeeping and honey distributed at Kolli Hills.
The ladies from the group took production for participants under the part in the Karma tribal dance.
36 employees, In a green drive at VAL, the company former employees and dependants took and villagers, planted 40,000 trees Sterlite engaged the Department of part in the training.
Technical and field across 40 acres, augmented by two Social Work, Loyola College to conduct services were provided by Environment environment awareness camps on plant a social audit of their CSR initiatives in and Development in Zambia EDZ, an protection and nursery development.
The study was enterprise that specialises in providing The communities have plans for conducted across a cross section of technical and marketing services for developing orchards in the region.
The 1,050 respondents from 11 villages beekeeping honey production.
nursery developed in-house will provide within a radius of 10 kilometres of the with quality saplings.
The key points the study Some 80 farmers enrolled in a paddy and highlighted were: vegetable cultivation programme at VAL.
Sterlite provided 775 trees planted by Most of the Sterlites initiatives are They were encouraged to test their soil students from Kamaraj College and need-based and make a meaningful to understand the cropping preferences local NGOs.
25 of them opted to The Sterlite Study Centre is the most grow variety of vegetables.
The results External Audits popular programme.
were a two-fold increase in their VAL has involved the Asian Institute for The rural health centres are much earnings.
The other 55 farmers Sustainable Development AISD in appreciated by the community.
intensified their efforts with paddy and collaboration with Xavier Institute of The SHGs are well established in the wheat and had 1.5 times more yield Social Service XISS Ranchi to study thrift saving phase and there is a compared to their previous harvest.
the socio-economic status of the rural marked improvement in the quality of communities in 75 villages situated in their lives as a result.
Environment the close proximity to its industrial 77% of the respondents rated A workshop on alternate and nonoperations in two districts namely Sterlites initiatives as very useful.
conventional energy sources was Kalahandi and Rayagada.
organised for 60 farmers with ten 46 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued Health for all through the mobile health camps at VAL Going forward, there is a need to move order to manage our operations, Rajpura Dariba Mine towards making the communities in the business performance, environmental Placed overall second in the neighbourhood more self-sufficient and and social sustainability and our market underground mine in Udaipur region self-reliant.
Towards this there should reputation.
under the aegis of Directorate be value-adding additions to the current General of Mines Safety Northern programmes along with some new Awards and Recognitions Zone, Ministry of Labour, initiatives.
Some of the During 2005-06, many of our operations Government of India.
recommendations put forward by the received awards and commendations villagers and the college were: focused for their contribution to aspects of Zawar Mine social mobilisation in villages where sustainable development.
These were Placed overall first in underground Sterlites presence is weak: vocational received at local, regional and national mine in Udaipur region under the guidance for children in class IX and levels.
Some of the significant aegis of Directorate General of Mines above: computer classes: issue-based achievements include: Safety Northern Zone, Ministry of doctors to be made available at the Labour, Government of India.
health centres along with extending HZL Appreciation Certificate for Safety in their reach: potable water to be made Rampura Agucha Mine the metal sector by the Greentech more accessible: linking SHGs to National Energy Conservation Award Foundation for 2005-06. livelihood: livelihood enhancement and for 2005 in Mining Sector to Rampura youth development programmes.
Agucha Mine by the Ministry of Vizag Smelter Power, Government of India.
This is Andhra Pradesh government award Future Objectives the first ever award given under this for best management for 2005 for We will continue to focus on our mission category.
outstanding contribution in the of working with communities to Excellence Award at the 16th Mine maintenance of industrial relations, contribute to their sustainable Environment and Mineral social welfare and productivity.
Our ongoing sustainable Conservation Week under the Greentech Platinum Award for Safety development efforts are driven by a auspices of Indian Bureau of Mines, in the metal sector by Greentech realisation that we are both a user and a Ajmer.
Foundation for 2005-06. contributor to the eco-systems within Overall first in the mechanised open Greentech Silver Award for which we operate.
Going forward we cast mines category in Ajmer region.
Environmental Excellence in to metal will therefore adopt, where practicable, Silver Greentech Safety and sector by Greentech Foundation for new technologies and best practices in Environmental Excellence Award for 2005-06. anticipation of eco-system changes, in 2005-06. executives who was part of that meeting divert the water to the 10 bighas land of the Delivering Value with proposed diversion of the used water from four brothers.
The Gram Panchayat and Recycled Water the 485 houses in the village, in order to HZL jointly constructed the channel.
The help them till their land.
The idea was well four brothers were asked to pay INR 4,000 This is a story of four brothers from Kotri received and a committee of 10 members as a usage fee.
The brothers have taken village in the Rajsamand District in including the HZL representative and civil three crops this year along with vegetable Rajasthan.
At a village meeting the one work experts set to work.
They surveyed cultivation on nine bhighas and fodder on agenda item which took precedence was the area to understand the problem, the remaining one bhiga.
They have now the issue of livelihood of the four brothers.
identifity a solution and check its set up two more enterprises.
They supply Though the brothers owned 10 bhigas of feasibility.
It was found that the village had 15 litres of milk daily to the villages and land they were unable to cultivate it as the the facility to store 190,000 litres of water manufacture and supply vermicopmostvillage had suffered from drought for the for the village.
150,000 litres was used organic manure.
Their revenue today is previous three years.
With no other means daily of which 75,000 litres could be now INR 8,000 per month.
of irrigation and with only odd jobs for collected and re-used.
It was decided to income they were unable to meet the needs construct a 1,000-metre water channel to of their family of 27.
One of our Groups VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 47 cashcrops.
Christened as Project One person per family would work on Redefining Cropping Kadambari eight members got together to the field daily for five hours.
Patterns form an SHG for the project.
In cases of absenteeism during emergencies, the member would have Dhondro village is situated on the northern Resource Identification to provide the secretary with a valid side of BALCO plant and is inhabited by A dead bore well was revived for irrigation.
The land in the village is Seven acres of barren forestland in the Members could take 15 days leave undulating and deprived of irrigation.
village was procured from the Forestry annually.
Leave above 15 days would There is a stream flowing through the edge Department with the intervention of the affect their share in the profit.
of the village, which has its source in the panchayat and the Van Samithi.
For 20% of total profit will be deposited in adjoining forest.
The villagers take only technical inputs it collaborated with the the bank account of the group as a one crop during the year.
During the District Horticulture Department.
mapping exercise with the stakeholders it Awareness technical workshops were A monthly review meeting would be was observed that there was abundant conducted for the SHG members who were organised with the BALCO team.
land and water in the village.
Project introduced to best agricultural practice, Total transparency in the accounting Kadambri was conceived to optimise these like the use of better quality seeds, modern system.
All records for purchase, resources through a sustainable tools and techniques and crop protection sales and quantity produced would be development programme.
floriculture was promoted on 50% of land Village Development Committee and Self Each member was to guard in the field with plantation of 4,000 jasmine bulbs, Help Group at night for protection on a rotation 3,000 rose saplings, and two kilogrammes Two hundred men and women from the basis.
A roster for the same would be of marigold seeds.
On the other half, 4,000 village participated in the meeting to form maintained by the secretary.
jatropha trees were planted, providing an the Village Development Committee excellent source of bio-diesel and also The group is now engaged in farming the VDC.
It was decided that the VDC would having medicinal applications too.
whole year round, has a market for the be responsible for the overall socioproduce in Korba itself, is self sustained economic development of the village.
One Ensuring Sustainability and earns INR 5,000 per month.
The scope of the projects identified was a change in With support from the BALCO team, the of their work keeps growing.
the cropping pattern from paddy to functional group laid rules for governance floriculture and vegetable cultivation to and sustainability: Chanderiya Lead and Zinc Smelter MALCO Future Goals Greentech Bronze Award for Safety Received Best Social Work award by The past year has taken us through a in the metal sector by Greentech Tamil Nadu Social Welfare Minister stage of strengthening our policies and Foundation for 2005-06.
Placed first in excellent water long-term strategies to bring our efficient unit at national level and sustainable growth in harmony with our BALCO third in leadership and excellence in communities and nature.
We plan to Winner of Silver Award in mining and HSE in southern region, awarded by consolidate these achievements further metal sector for outstanding CII for 2005 and set higher targets for the future achievement in safety management Commendation Certificate for strong years.
commitment in the national level BALCO mines at Mainpat was the competition for the Sustainability recipient of the following awards Award for 2006. from the Director General of Mines Safety DGMS, Bilaspur region: Sterlite Third prize in over all performance International Safety Award for 2005 in safe mining practices from British Safety Council First prize in explosive handling Greentech Silver Award for Safety in First prize in lowest LTIFR in the chemical sector by Greentech mining sector.
Foundation for 2005-06 CII award for Excellent Energy Efficient Unit Nurturing the environment in the plant premises the lush green unit of HZL at Chanderiya 48 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Sustainable Development Report continued Independent Assurance on Sustainable Development Report for 2005-06 1.
Background and Responsibility: At the request of Vedanta Resources Plc.
the Group, we have reviewed the Sustainable Development Report the Report for the period 1st April 2005 to 31st March 2006 relating to performance on Occupational Health, Safety and Environment HSE, with a view to provide independent assurance on the non-financial information contained in this Report.
The Management of Vedanta is responsible for the collection and presentation of information on HSE performance in the Report.
Our responsibility, is to express conclusions with limited assurance on HSE performance of the Group as contained in the Report in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE 3000.
Scope of Review: The scope of the review included: verification of primary information on statements and data relating to Vedantas HSE performance through site visits to BALCO Korba Complex, HZL CLZS Complex at Chanderiya and Zawar Mining Complex and Sterlite Tuticorin and providing limited assurance in respect of these statements and data: checking of monitoring and reporting procedures to support reliability of disclosures made in the Report: assessment whether the Report provides an appropriate representation of existing policies on HSE: checking of data on the following indicators: Lost Time Accidents Occupational Health Energy generation, consumption and conservation Water withdrawn, consumed, recycled and discharged Air emissions Waste Management Training by type 3.
Approach: We planned and performed our work in accordance with the ISAE 3000 to obtain limited assurance.
We sought all information and explanations that we considered necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence for ascertaining that the above mentioned indicators were consistent with the activities in the units for the period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006, and were documented and stated in accordance with the guidelines stated under their HSE policies.
Parties responsible for Assurance Engagement: The assurance engagement was completed by  Pvt.
Ltds multi-disciplinary team with requisite skills and experience on similar engagement, and was led by Dr. P. Ram Babu, employed with PwC with over 26 years of experience in Corporate Sustainability Management and Reporting Systems.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 49 5.
Conclusion: a The senior management is committed to sustainable development and believes in achieving progress by contributing to the basics of life in harmony with nature: this is further discerned from the fact that HSE governance is an issue of very high concern and regular reviews of HSE performance are undertaken.
b The tone set at the top on HSE performance improvement has resulted in the establishment of a robust HSE business planning and reporting process which is being cascaded from the corporate to the different operational units: specific objectives and targets have been set to articulate Vedantas business priorities, which include sustainability issues: however, Vedanta may consider expanding the scope of its report to include additional HSE key performance indicators relevant to the Groups processes and operations.
c During our review, we have not noticed any misstatement and we can state that: the information cited at HSE indicators relating to lost time accidents, occupational health, energy, water, air emissions, waste management, and training in the Report has been fairly stated: and the Report presents a fair and balanced account of Vedantas material HSE performance.
