VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 09 Sustainable Development Our community development initiatives are prioritised based on local needs and broad areas of focus including: Social investment in health, education and livelihood Bio investment i. e. water harvesting, agriculture and social forestry Environment conservation.
We recognise and appreciate the We continue to look forward to the level HSE Committee provides direction inherent impact that our businesses sustainable development challenges on all HSE and community initiatives have on the environment and habitats posing the world and specifically to the and monitors their progress.
Under this within which they operate.
Our non-ferrous metals sector in which we direction, each operating business responsibility to stakeholders operate.
We understand how the growing has systematically developed its necessitates that we act towards the requirements of the burgeoning world management structure based on a communities around our operations as population need to be met with scarce Plan-DoCheck-Act approach.
well as the environment from where we resources, and continually align our draw our resources and raw materials.
business processes on the foundation of We continued with our focus on a well articulated sustainability strategy environmental initiatives for effective We therefore strive to act in a manner to address both short-term and longwater management, waste minimization that reduces any impacts to desired and term issues.
and recycling, reducing air emissions acceptable levels thereby creating and energy conservation, which also sustainable value for all our Our philosophy towards health, safety helped us to reduce our production costs stakeholders.
For us, sustainable and environment HSE is set at the top.
and brought some additional revenue.
development is a journey where we Recognising that sound corporate progress by contributing to the basics governance is the first step to excellence of life in harmony with nature.
in sustainable development, the Board
