Corporate and Social Responsibility Report Managing corporate and social responsibility Offsetting emissions Board level responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR rests with the Group Personnel and Corporate Affairs Director.
CSR management and monitoring is assigned to 94,500 CO tonnes local management and in certain cases to country Risk 2 Management Committees.
Each of these countries has Offset since 2000 appointed environmental and community champions to drive activity in these areas and improve the environmental data Carbon neutral journeys collection process in terms of our environmental impacts.
For licensee countries, Regional Licensee Directors are responsible for promoting adherence to Group CSR principles and policies.
23% CSR strategy Our CSR strategy is an integral part of our We try harder.
In 2006, we encouraged 1,850 of our philosophy.
Company values are set out in our statement customers, booking online, to make of business principles see www.
their journey carbon neutral We have sought to adopt best practice in stakeholder relationships for many years.
In 2006, we implemented formal policies to bring greater rigour and transparency to these relationships.
Regarding the environment, we issued guidelines to operating countries on reducing energy use in head ofces and rental stations.
We put in place a centralised data collection process under which utility bills are submitted to our Budapest shared service centre for consolidation and reporting.
We face a challenge in that for a significant number of rental stations, particularly at airports, it is difficult to obtain a breakdown of energy use.
In such locations we also have a very limited ability directly to affect our energy use, because we are sharing a building with many other users.
Therefore future targets for reducing CO emissions will be focused on 2 head-ofce down-town locations where we have a direct inuence over energy use.
On community matters, we have for the first time developed community investment guidelines for all our countries of operation.
These propose that we focus our efforts on the use of vehicles for community purposes and local environmental improvements in mitigation of our environmental impacts.
We will continue with this framework during the course of 2007, whilst allowing local management discretion to encourage and support local staff volunteering and fundraising for causes of their choice.
We are a member of the FTSE4Good Index and the Kempen SNS Smallcap SRI Europe Index.
We again participated in the Business in the Community Environment Index.
Avis Europe plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report continued In 2007 the Group will focus on a number of initiatives to further Environmental impacts reduce energy usage: installing video-conferencing facilities in We have a long-standing commitment to environmental the Groups five major markets, the UK Headquarters in Bracknell responsibility and remain committed to reducing, wherever and the shared service centre in Budapest to reduce the number possible, our negative impacts on the environment.
Since of business trips and domestic and overseas ights: trialling 2002 we have offset greenhouse gas emissions and our solar energy in our Italian headquarters and the inclusion of European corporate operations and some of our licensees environmental awareness as an integral element of Avis are carbon neutral.
Our track record in this area was acknowledged in the report Case study published by Sir Nicholas Stern for the UK Government on Agricultural methane capture in Sandbeiendorf, Germany the Economics of Climate Change in autumn 2006.
The Animal waste is normally stored in open lagoons, allowing report cited Avis as being a private sector leader in climate methane which has 21 times the global warming potential change programmes.
of CO to be released into the atmosphere.
2 Our largest environmental impact is from greenhouse Avis has funded a project on three farms in which combined gas emissions, both from our rental eet and our ofces.
heat and power plants have been installed to capture this Secondary impacts come from the waste which we send methane.
The process takes place in an oxygen-free to landll and incinerate.
environment and generates electricity, which is sold to We measure these impacts internally and the data is reviewed the national grid and heat which is used on the farms.
and analysed by the independent Edinburgh Centre for Carbon The processed waste is of a much higher quality than Management working with The CarbonNeutral Company.
The that produced from open lagoons and can all be recycled.
analysis covers emissions from electricity, gas, oil, propane, In 2005 and 2006 the project reduced emissions by 20,000 landll and incinerated waste by Group headquarters and tonnes CO. rental locations along with business travel by staff.
2 In 2006 total greenhouse gas emissions amounted to 18,421 Fleet operations tonnes of CO.
This gure includes emissions from our call centre 2 We seek to minimise emissions from our eet by: in Barcelona and our shared service centre in Budapest for the first time.
Excluding these, the underlying level of emissions changing vehicles very regularly over 90% changed every six is 17,933 tonnes of CO, representing a decrease of 0.7% 2 months and checking them carefully between each rental: compared to 2005 emissions.
and Year 2003 2004 2005 2006 introducing more environmentally friendly vehicles in more COemissions 19,38921,13318,054 18,421 2 locations.
We continue to buy ethanol-powered and exi-fuel tonnes cars in Sweden and hybrid vehicles in Portugal.
In 2006, we Incineration waste 598 604 74 278 also purchased 400 Focus C-MAX exi-fuel vehicles in tonnes France and introduced exi-fuel vehicles in Greece.
Landll waste 804 855 735 1,091 We encourage our customers to support our carbon offset tonnes programme by enabling those who book online to make their journey carbon neutral.
In 2006, 1,850 chose to do so, an Includes emissions from our call centre in Barcelona and our shared service centre in Budapest.
Our external environmental accreditation again includes an Corporate operations A rating from the Safety and Environmental Risk Management In 2006, we brought our shared service centre in Budapest Rating Agency, which is well above the industry average.
and our Barcelona call centre within the scope of our carbon Avis Sweden maintains its eco ISO 14001 standard.
Community We achieved carbon neutral status for our corporate We aim to make a positive contribution to the quality of life in operations by: the communities where we operate.
reducing CO emissions by the more efficient use of ofce 2 Our community investment guidelines provide that we focus on space and of energy: and local environmental improvement and provision of free transport offsetting remaining emissions.
70% of the offset in 2006 for community activities.
We also support staff to volunteer and was through innovative renewable energy and technology raise funds for charities which are particularly important to them projects which reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
remaining offset was via tree planting.
In 2006, we have offset just over 18,400 tonnes of CO and since 2000, 2 we have offset some 94,500 tonnes.
22 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 In 2006, our environmental activities have included: Peninha, Sintra-Cascais Natural Park, Portugal.
We sponsored environmental NGO Quercus to help protect and preserve rare specimens of plants and trees in this unique upland micro-reserve: Seville, Spain.
We have planted an orchard of orange trees at our rental station: and Forest of Marston Vale, UK.
Our support for the forest continued with the planting of over 2,000 native trees.
We have provided free transport amongst others to the following: Les Restaurants du Coeur, France.
We continue to provide vans to distribute food and hot meals to the needy.
In 2006 we also provided transport for equipment and artists for a series of fundraising concerts in Lyon: Banco Alimentar Contra a Fome, Portugal.
We provide vans to help distribute food from supermarkets to charities working with children and other people in need: and Stichting fide NEES, Holland.
We provide cars to transport disabled or chronically ill children.
Supporting staff volunteering and fundraising has continued in many countries including: community volunteering, Spain.
Any member of staff who Top: In 2006, Avis Italy supported The Food invests at least 12 hours of their own time on community is a right project for children living in Brazil, raising more than 6,000. volunteering every three months receives 150 for their charity: Bottom: Forest of Marston Vale, UK our payroll giving, UK.
We began this programme in June 2005, support for the forest continued with the and by the end of 2006 some 25% of our UK staff were planting of over 2,000 native trees in 2006. participating in the scheme, with over 20,000 raised to date: charity budgets, UK.
At the local level, each rental station or head ofce department is given a charity budget or five free three day car rentals to give to local charities.
At the national level Avis UK supported Macmillian Cancer Support, raising over 1,000 via the Worlds largest coffee morning: and incentivising improved performance, Italy.
We make donations to Medicins sans Frontieres based on improved quality performance by staff at each of the rental stations.
Workplace We rely on our staff to deliver the We try harder.
We can only achieve this if they are highly motivated and enjoy working for Avis.
We operate in many countries with diverse employment practices.
Whilst respecting local circumstances, wherever we operate we follow the principles of non-discrimination in recruitment, development, remuneration and advancement.
All our employees must follow the highest standards of honesty, integrity and fairness, wherever they work.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to applications made by disabled people, to continue wherever possible the employment of staff who become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training, career development and promotion of disabled employees.
Avis Europe plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report continued Communication and recognition of achievement form the In 2006, overall satisfaction levels rose by over 2%, continuing cornerstones of our employment policy.
Each year we survey the steady improvement which we have seen over the past six our staff and in 2006 the survey covered 13 business units years.
Willingness to recommend Avis measured by the net representing 90% of employees.
2006 was a year of significant promoter score improved by some 24%, reecting the structural and management change for the Group and this is introduction of a number of initiatives to improve customer reected in slightly lower scores for both key measures of service in 2006.
The ratio of refunds to rentals fell by a further employee satisfaction.
Overall employee satisfaction declined 2.9% in the year.
from 69% to 66.6% and the average rating for the whole survey These improvements have been achieved in part by a series of was marginally lower at 63% 2005: 64.4%.
customer service initiatives, aimed at making the rental process, At a time of change and restructuring, it is particularly important faster, simpler and clearer for customers.
These have included: to explain to staff what we are seeking to achieve as a company.
improved facilities at car pick-up and return, for example a In 2006, we have strengthened internal communications by shorter, clearer rental agreement in the customers language undertaking a series of initiatives including leadership of choice and a car-side check-in service giving customers conferences, bi-annual staff days, regular updates on strategy and the ability to return their rental car quickly and efficiently: results for all staff and informal meetings with the Chief Executive.
improved car communications and car-choice options giving customers the opportunity to choose the brand as well as We continue our We try harder.
recognition awards, in which the category they prefer and in-vehicle navigations systems.
In 2006, the number of such They have also been achieved by our continuous improvement awards rose from 800 to over 850. programmes in customer service techniques, including the We believe that our effectiveness is enhanced by having staff use of multimedia programmes for meet and greet and staff who have worked for us over a number of years.
We work training in understanding international cultural differences.
hard to retain staff, particularly by supporting their personal We remain the only car rental company to have achieved the development.
As a result, we continue to have approximately ISO 10002 CMSAS 86:2000 standard for complaint management half our staff with more than five years service with the Group.
and were re-accredited in January 2007.
The standard covers Marketplace all our European ofces and demonstrates that we follow best We aim to make Avis the first choice for our customers.
We seek practice in all aspects of complaint management.
to do so by continually improving our service and so ensuring Awards provide a strong indication of how we are seen by our customer satisfaction and loyalty.
In 2006, we won two prestigious Travel Weekly We monitor customer satisfaction principally through customer Globe Awards for the third year running, including Worlds surveys and the level of complaints.
Leading Business Car Rental Company.
We won a further 14 awards internationally and were a nalist in the 2006 Each month we distribute over 20,000 customer opinion surveys European Business Awards for Customer Service.
of which around 80% are distributed electronically and we receive over 5,000 replies.
We increasingly use electronic surveys and encourage customers to give us open-ended comments.
Some 80% of responses to electronic surveys are returned in less than three days, enabling us to pass comments on to the relevant business area for appropriate action more quickly than paper-based information.
Our three key measures of customer satisfaction are: overall satisfaction: willingness of customers to recommend Avis net promoter score : and refunds made.
24 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
