CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility Statement Policy The Cookson Code requires all employees, officers and Cookson recognises that its operations impact a wide Directors to have a duty of loyalty to the Group.
Individuals community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, may not use their positions to profit themselves or others at customers, business associates and local communities and the expense of the Group.
Personal interests that do, may or that appropriate attention to the fulfilment of its corporate might appear to conflict with Group interests or improperly responsibilities can enhance overall performance.
In influence the performance of an individuals duties must be structuring its approach to the various aspects of corporate avoided at all times.
social responsibility, the Company takes account of Cookson seeks to be a good corporate citizen wherever guidelines and statements issued by stakeholder it conducts business.
The Cookson Code requires employees representatives and other regulatory bodies from around to observe all national and local laws and never seek to gain the world.
any advantage through the inappropriate use of payments, Social, environmental and ethical matters are reviewed business courtesies or other inducements.
Bribery is strictly by the Board, particularly as regards the impact such prohibited.
Group businesses must respect and take into matters may have on the Groups management of risk and account regional and local concerns, customs and the internal control systems in place for addressing any traditions.
Helpline Code of Conduct Cookson has a 24-hour Employee Business Concern Helpline The Company has a Code of Conduct Cookson Code, telephone and email facility.
This is operated by a which has been distributed throughout the Group in 12 professional, external provider of employee support, languages and by which all its businesses are required to counselling and business concern services, which provides operate.
The Cookson Code emphasises the Companys Cooksons employees and business associates with an commitment to compliance with the highest standards of independent and confidential service through which to legal and ethical behaviour.
The Cookson Code is register any concerns about any incorrect or irregular reproduced in full on the Companys website.
practices they perceive in Cooksons workplace.
With the As stated in the Cookson Code, the primary goal of express permission of the caller or email correspondent, the Cookson is the protection and advancement of the interests service provider reports any matters raised to a designated of investors by providing attractive returns on a long-term team at Cooksons Head Office for investigation.
In striving to achieve this goal, management must conduct its business in a responsible manner, while Health, Safety and engaging in careful risk-taking as an essential ingredient of business success.
The Cookson Code requires that Environmental Statement particular care be given to the preservation and protection Policy of Group assets by making prudent and effective use of Cookson has a Health, Safety and Environment HS&E resources.
Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as Policy based on the principle of operating in a manner that being essential to the attainment of Group goals, which preserves health, safety and a sound environment.
For means listening carefully to customers product and service Cookson companies worldwide, the minimum acceptable requirements and maintaining a reputation for integrity in standard is to meet their legal HS&E obligations, however, all business and other dealings.
the aim is to improve continually.
Cookson believes that The Group can only achieve its goals through the efforts good HS&E performance is an integral part of effective and of its employees.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction profitable business management.
The policy, which is requires working environments that motivate employees reviewed regularly, is available in full on the Groups to be productive and innovative, and which provide website, www.
opportunities for employee training and development to maximise personal potential and develop careers within the Management systems Group.
Cookson believes that wherever in the world they The Board assumes ultimate responsibility for HS&E policy work employees have the right to be treated in good faith and for monitoring its implementation, while executives and and on the basis of respect for the dignity of the individual.
line managers are directly responsible for HS&E matters in The Cookson Code requires all Group companies to ensure the operations under their control.
A reporting system is in that recruitment, training, promotion, career development, place to collect, collate and report on key performance termination and similar employment-related issues are indicators.
Advice and support is available from the based on individual ability, achievement, experience and corporate HS&E function, led by the Group Head of HS&E conduct without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, who reports on these matters to the Board.
ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
Cookson Group plc { 33 } Annual Report 2006 Electricity KWH, millions CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED REACH Health, Safety and The new European regulation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals REACH will Environmental Statement continued have significant implications for Cookson businesses.
REACH Performance requires the registration of some 30,000 chemicals as it In 2004, Cookson began a new programme to reduce shifts the burden of proving chemical safety to industry, energy use and the associated emissions of carbon dioxide affecting the availability, cost and conditions of use of many CO, the principal greenhouse gas.
Cookson and its chemical manufacturing trains employees to understand energy use and businesses have launched a major exercise to ensure that the conservation principles and introduces energy audits to necessary personnel understand the obligations under assist high-use sites in identifying and implementing REACH and have the systems in place to meet them.
During 2006, Cookson conducted includes workshops and conferences using internal experts energy audits and prepared energy use-reduction plans at and outside consultants to educate and foster collaboration 14 facilities, typically identifying cost-effective opportunities on methods for compliance.
to reduce site energy use by 5%.
In early 2007, the Group established a target to reduce normalised energy use by 9% Workplace within 3 years, further demonstrating Cooksons Cooksons success depends on retaining the commitment of commitment to reduced energy use and CO emissions.
2 the people who work within it.
The Group strives to ensure During 2006, six additional Cookson locations achieved that employees have a safe environment in which to work certification to ISO 14001, the international standard for and that employment practices are fair and equitable.
Likewise, three additional locations achieved certification to OHSAS 18001, Safety the standard for health and safety management systems.
Cooksons goal is zero work-related injuries and illness.
To A number of Cookson companies in the US have been achieve this, a worldwide initiative has been implemented to named as potentially responsible parties under the improve safety performance, with a particular focus on Superfund law for wastes disposed of at sites owned by applying sound risk assessments and ergonomic principles.
Although likely Group costs depend on many The programme includes minimum standards of factors, the few cases that remain active are expected to be performance, targeted assistance to higher risk sites and a settled within the amounts already provided.
variety of training and awareness activities.
From 2002 to Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have 2006, the rate of recordable injuries and illness improved by potential environmental liabilities because of past 55%, and the rate of injuries and illness resulting in absence operations at their current or former sites.
Where from work improved by 59%.
In 2006, half of Cooksons remediation is required, Cookson environmental managers operations around the world achieved our goal of zero and external specialists work with government authorities work-related illness and injuries.
To ensure continued to ensure that remediation is conducted effectively progress, the Group has set a target of a further reduction and efficiently.
in injury and illness rates of 30% by the end of 2009.
During 2006, Cookson continued to focus on the Compliance elimination of work-related injuries through better application A small number of enforcement notices were issued to of ergonomic principles.
The last four years have seen Cookson companies in 2006, including several that extensive ergonomic training throughout the Group and the assessed minor penalties.
One civil court action for alleged establishment of ergonomic teams at a number of facilities, non-compliance with waste management requirements leading to a significant improvement in their performance.
associated with managing an inactive site was filed against Additional information on HS&E matters can be found on a Cookson company in 2006.
The company expects to settle the Groups website.
Energy consumption Facilities certified Rate of injuries & manufacturing operations to ISO 14001 illness that resulted in absence from work per 100 employees 45 450 42 42 3.4 40 410 36 2.5 2.4 27 35 370 25 1.9 30 330 1.4 25 290 20 250 02 03 04 05 06 02 03 04 05 06 02 03 04 05 06 Electricity use note: six previously certified Gas use facilities were sold in 2006 Cookson Group plc { 34 } Annual Report 2006 Gas Therms, millions
