24 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 C Co or rp po or ra at te e S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y R Re ep po or rt t As noted on page 14, the Board considers that the employees have been trained in defined safe working management of safety, health, environmental, social and methods as required.
ethical matters forms a key element of effective corporate All employees have a responsibility to prevent injury and governance.
These areas are managed in conjunction with all damage to health and the environment and to contribute to other business risks and are covered by the internal control improvements in SHE performance through regular systems and procedures outlined on page 16. communication and consultation.
A review of the Groups policies related to safety, health, The Groups excellent health and safety performance has environment, human resources and business ethics is set out continued with no employees having a reportable injury for below.
The Group received the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold Medal S Sa af fe et ty y, H He ea allt th h a an nd d E En nv viir ro on nm me en nt t in 2006 for the fifth year, following five consecutive years of The Board believes that all employees should be able to work receiving the RoSPA Gold Award.
safely in a healthy workplace and that the Groups activities should not harm the public or the environment.
Everyone in As in 2003, 2004 and 2005, there have again been no the Group is expected to place the highest priority on prosecutions, fines or enforcement action as a result of nonachieving these aims.
Good safety, health and environmental compliance with safety, health or environmental legislation.
performance go hand in hand with good business We seek to stay well ahead of relevant environmental performance.
Our manufacturing plants are authorised processes These policy objectives are achieved by: under the Environmental Protection Act 1990 and as such are subject to close monitoring of environmental emissions.
There identifying safety, health and environmental hazards: was one reportable environmental incident during the year assessment of the risks associated with the identified 2005: one.
As part of routine monitoring of emissions at our hazards: Rotherham plant, the amount of oxides of nitrogen released implementation of appropriate control measures, with was found to be marginally greater than our agreed limit on external guidance and advice being sought and used where one occasion.
appropriate: We are regulated by Integrated Pollution Prevention and ensuring that all employees are appropriately and properly Control legislation which imposes restrictions on emissions to trained and understand what they are required to do: air and controlled water.
We seek to minimise the reviewing and learning from our own and other peoples environmental impacts of our business as far as practicable.
experiences and taking on board new legislation and other requirements and, The principal environmental impacts of the Groups UK operations are set out in the table below.
The environmental ensuring that all employees contribute to improving safety, impact of our overseas operations is not considered material: health and environmental performance through regular and effective communication and consultation.
Environmental impacts The Board has ultimate responsibility for SHE policy and 2 20 00 06 6 per tonne of VICTREX PEEK sold 2004 2005 performance and receives a report on safety, health and VICTREX PEEK sales volume tonnes 1,802 1,972 2 2, 3 33 39 9 environmental issues on a monthly basis.
Energy use GJ 212 206 1 18 81 1 The Production and Technical Director is directly accountable 3 Water use m 197 224 2 21 10 0 to the Board for SHE performance.
He is responsible for CO2 emissions tonnes equivalent 11 10 9 9 ensuring that adequate arrangements and resources are in 0 0.. 2 2 place to implement the SHE policy as outlined above and that Hazardous waste post treatment tonnes 4.4 3.0 these measures are effective.
A dedicated SHE department The figures above incorporate pro-forma estimates for certain support him in this.
manufacturing operations relating to BDF production prior to Senior executives are responsible for ensuring that the SHE acquisition on 1 April 2005 to ensure the impacts for each policy is implemented in their departments and that all year are provided on a consistent basis.
V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 25 We are constantly striving to improve efficiency in all areas of experience and education.
We believe that the wide array of our operations, including energy use and therefore CO2 perspectives that result from such diversity promotes emissions, water consumption and quantities of hazardous innovation and business success.
As part of this policy, Victrex waste produced.
This is achieved by implementing many gives due consideration to employment applications from procedures and projects, large and small, across the business.
disabled people consistent with their capabilities and provides The major decrease in post treatment hazardous waste every opportunity to employees who become disabled to disposed of in 2006 was principally due to the continue employment with appropriate training and career implementation of improved treatment processes by the main development.
waste disposal contractor at our DFDPM manufacturing plant The Group places considerable emphasis on the involvement the precursor to BDF, the principal raw material from which of its employees and has continued its practice of keeping VICTREX PEEK is manufactured.
The increase in water usage them informed on matters relating to the performance of the per tonne of PEEK sold in 2005 was due to increased cooling Group or relating directly to them as employees, either water use on our polymer manufacturing plant to comply formally through the Staff Committee, or informally via with a revised consent from the Environment Agency which newsletters and the Group intranet to which all employees required us to discharge water at a lower temperature.
Process improvements have enabled us to reduce water usage The Company supports employee share ownership, and in 2006. where practical offers the opportunity to participate in share R RE EA AC CH H schemes.
As at 30 September 2006, approximately 76% We have been monitoring the development of the 2005: 68% of employees worldwide were participants in forthcoming Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of employee share schemes, principally as option holders under Chemicals Regulations REACH and their potential impact the Companys employee share option schemes.
REACH is expected to come into force in Spring We also sponsor pension plans for employees throughout the 2007 although full implementation is not expected to be world.
These comprise a mixture of defined benefit or defined completed until 2010.
Although we cannot precisely quantify contribution arrangements, savings schemes and provident the financial impact on Victrex at this stage, we do not expect funds designed to provide appropriate retirement benefits it to be material, particularly as polymers are currently outside based on local laws, custom and market practice.
Details of the scope of the regulations.
the Groups principal pension schemes are set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
E Em mp pllo oy ye ee es s We recognise our talented and diverse workforce as a key Largely as a result of the above approach, Victrex has low business asset.
Our business success is a reflection of the voluntary employee turnover, 5.2% in 2006 2005: 4.3%.
quality and skill of our people.
Victrex is committed to B Bu us siin ne es ss s e et th hiic cs s seeking out, retaining and developing the highest calibre We have a formal global ethics policy which incorporates the employees to maximise business growth and performance.
Groups key principles and standards governing business Assessment of ongoing training needs comprises a key conduct towards our key stakeholder groups.
We believe that element of the annual appraisal process.
we should treat all of these groups with honesty and We operate an equal opportunities policy and regard this as a integrity.
Our policy is set out below: commitment to make full use of the talents and resources of all our employees, and to provide a healthy environment which will encourage good and productive working relationships within the organisation.
In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socioeconomic status, physical and mental ability, thinking style, 26 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 C Co or rp po or ra at te e S So oc ciia all R Re es sp po on ns siib biilliit ty y R Re ep po or rt t continued O Ou ur r c cu us st to om me er rs s We will seek to: We recognise that satisfied customers underpin our future provide a clean, safe working environment which meets all commercial prosperity, and that understanding and meeting legislative requirements and to provide all the necessary their needs is key to our success.
training support for employees to operate safely within it: We will seek to: provide appropriate remuneration for work carried out, and equal opportunities for development and career have our product available to meet our promised delivery advancement: schedules, and deliver them when they are needed: be intolerant of any unacceptable working practices such as continuously improve the quality and performance of our any form of discrimination, bullying or harassment: products and services in line with customer needs: prohibit the illegal use of drugs on our sites and encourage provide prompt technical support for the products that anyone with any form of addiction to seek help and, customers have purchased: be intolerant of any corrupt practices by any level of provide timely, reliable technical advice to customers on new employee and to encourage whistle blowing through our product applications: formal procedure if such practices are encountered.
In collaborate with customers to provide innovative solutions particular, improper payments are prohibited and no gift to their material requirements and, whose value is material and could be interpreted as a form operate to the highest ethical and business conduct of inducement, should be offered or accepted by any standards.
O Ou ur r s su up pp plliie er rs s O Ou ur r s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er rs s Our commitment to our customers is underpinned by a Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of the business and strong supply chain.
we recognise that we have responsibilities towards them as stewards of their investments.
We will seek to: We will seek to: maintain appropriate standards of business conduct in our dealings with our suppliers: grow our business over time to maximise shareholder value: encourage suppliers to adopt similar principles and communicate in an open and timely manner regarding the standards of business conduct to Victrexs own: performance, position and prospects of the business and, where appropriate, collaborate with our suppliers to maintain sound systems of corporate governance to ensure increase the performance, quality and efficiency of the that the Company is well directed and managed.
supply chain: T Th he e e en nv viir ro on nm me en nt t adhere to the contract terms agreed with suppliers and, We recognise that our operations have an impact on the encourage our suppliers to meet Victrexs own safety, health environment, and that we have a responsibility to minimise and environment standards.
O Ou ur r e em mp pllo oy ye ee es s We will seek to: We recognise that, whilst being an asset-based business, work within the regulatory frameworks of the countries in Victrex relies heavily on the skills, experience and competence which we operate and apply appropriate standards and, of our employees to produce our products safely and minimise the environmental impacts of our operations as far efficiently, develop innovative new products, and support as reasonably practicable.
business development in our existing and new markets.
