Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Group is committed to operating in a socially, ethically and The following have been defined by the Board as the principal CSR environmentally responsible manner.
It aims to be recognised as themes and priorities relevant to the management of the Groups transparent and ethical in its dealings and to contribute to the exposures to SEE-related risks that may impact upon the short and general economic and social well-being and development of the long-term value of the Group: communities in which it operates.
The Group has complied in this report with the disclosure guidelines issued by the Association of ensuring the safety of employees, contractors and the general British Insurers ABI.
The Groups commitment to CSR is public through adherence to recognised safety standards, and recognised by its membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
the promotion of a positive health and safety culture throughout the Group: The Group has fully integrated SEE matters into its mainstream maintaining a commitment to a working environment in which management processes and risk management framework.
During personal and employment rights are upheld and ensuring the year, the Board has taken regular account of the significance of equality of opportunity for all employees and job applicants: SEE matters to the Groups business.
The Board considers that it maintaining a commitment to a working environment which has received adequate information to enable it to identify and assess enables employees to realise their maximum potential and to be significant SEE matters which may have an impact on the value of appropriately challenged and fully engaged in the business, with the Group, and the Board is satisfied that SEE matters are currently opportunities for skill enhancement, personal development and managed so as not to represent a material risk to the Group.
There employee share ownership: are effective systems for managing SEE-related risks and the delivery making a positive contribution to the physical environment of CSR targets has been linked to bonus entitlements set for through environmentally responsible management and executive directors and other senior managers.
adherence to relevant statutory and regulatory standards: The Groups CSR policy is supported by other policies covering contributing to a reduction of the impact of energy-related environment, health and safety, community involvement and human activities on the environment through the promotion and resources.
During the year the Board adopted a new ethical provision of renewable energy options,  dealing policy.
energy and energy efficiency measures: commitment to NIE Supplys social action plans, including The Group Chief Executive is the Board member responsible for CSR attention to bad debt prevention, the continued promotion of strategy and is assisted by the Company Secretary and a CSR cokeypad meters and the provision of services to customers with ordinator.
CSR compliance officers co-ordinate individual special needs: businesses responses to SEE matters.
A strategic action plan is in continuing to deliver available efficiency improvements and place which identifies CSR actions and priorities.
investing within the limits of price controls to provide the Northern Ireland community with a safe and reliable electricity Specific SEE-related matters, such as health and safety, regulation transmission and distribution infrastructure and a quality service and the environment, are the subject of ongoing reporting and at an affordable price: and presentations to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that individual maintaining a highly ethical approach to regulatory SEE training needs for directors have been fulfilled.
A training responsibilities, obligations under licences, public positioning programme, incorporating SEE dimensions, has been developed for and marketing of products and services.
new directors and was delivered as required during the year.
The Groups externally resourced internal audit function has The principal mechanism for the management of SEE risks and reviewed and verified the SEE CSR disclosures contained in this opportunities is the Groups risk management framework.
The internal auditors were satisfied that the disclosures are registers identify, assess and make explicit risks deemed to have supported by adequate and appropriate evidence.
Their review specific SEE CSR dimensions.
Consideration is given to any concluded that the Group had appropriately adopted the additional actions required, and CSR themes and priorities are requirements of the ABI guidelines on Socially Responsible defined and incorporated in risk registers as appropriate.
During the Investment and assigned an overall assurance rating of high.
In year the Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for addition, key elements of the Groups CSR activities are subject to overseeing compliance with the Groups CSR policy, reviewed the additional verification, including ISO 14001, externally verified by key CSR themes and priorities for each business.
The corporate risk British Standards Institute BSI and Investors in People IIP.
register was similarly reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board on three occasions during the year.
Corporate Social Responsibility 27 There were no occasions during the year when the Group was found Workplace to have failed to comply with equal opportunities legislation.
The NI The Group is fully aware of its obligations to employees and Equality Commission commended the Groups most recent Article contractors under health and safety legislation.
The Groups health 55 Review of Fair Employment for the period May 2001 to May and safety policy aims to promote high standards and is supported 2004, carried out in accordance with the Fair Employment and by specific safety principles, rules, policies and procedures.
Laurence MacKenzie, Managing Director Electricity Infrastructure, has responsibility for health and safety at Board level.
The Group believes that the pro-active management of illness and absenteeism is to the mutual benefit of the Group and its The Group health and safety management system is structured upon employees.
The Group uses an outsourced occupational health the principles of the Health & Safety Executive for Northern Ireland service operating on a management-referral or self-referral basis, as HSENI guidance Successful Health and Safety Management and well as a welfare consultant who is available to provide confidential the Health and Safety Commission guidance Directors advice to all employees.
Existing health-related policies cover Responsibilities for Health and Safety.
To further strengthen the mental health, HIV infection and AIDS, alcohol and drug-related health and safety management system, the Group has adopted problems, smoking and first aid.
During the year an employee recommendations from a quality safety audit of T&D and Powerteam health and well-being policy was developed and communicated to undertaken by the RoSPA Royal Society for the Prevention of all employees.
Sickness absence for the Group was 2.95% in Accidents in 2004.
The Group safety and risk department regularly 2005 06 compared to 2.89% the previous year, below the national engages with relevant organisations including the HSENI, DETI, the average of 3.70%.
Department of Trade and Industry and the Electricity Networks Association ENA.
In addition to formal complaints and grievance procedures, the Group has 13 trained harassment advisers and a harassment advice Formal processes for accident investigation and incident analysis are line.
The Group engages with relevant external organisations, in place.
During the year there was a total of seven reportable including Opportunity Now, which promotes equality on gender, the accidents across the Group compared to 14 in the previous year.
NI Equality Forum, an employers forum for sharing knowledge and The most serious lost time incident involved the failure of a mobile best practice on equality issues, the NI Equality Commission, the elevated work platform in which a linesman sustained serious back Employers Forum on Disability and the NI Association for the Care injuries.
The other lost time incidents resulted in minor injuries as a and Resettlement of Offenders.
result of manual handling, slips, trips and falls.
The LTIR, which measures the number of lost time incidents per 100 employees, The Group has a wide range of family-friendly working arrangements reduced from 0.7 to 0.3. in place including maternity, paternity, adoption, parental and dependant leave, a child care scheme, career breaks, job sharing KPI 2006 2005 and flexible working hours.
Number Number Eligible employees have the opportunity to participate in employee LTIR per 100 employees 0.3 0.7 share schemes.
A savings related share option scheme Sharesave Scheme approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC has been in Contractors working on NIEs electricity network must adhere to the place since privatisation in 1993.
54% of eligible employees same safety rules and requirements as Group employees.
There participated in the grant of options under the Sharesave Scheme were no employee or contractor fatalities during the year.
However, made during the year.
57% of eligible employees currently a person engaged in road resurfacing was tragically killed in an participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP.
incident involving an 11,000 volt overhead line in February 2006.
Learning and development needs are identified through The Group Chief Executive has overall responsibility for employment performance, planning and review PPR processes.
NIE and issues, including equal opportunities, and is supported by the Powerteam are IIP accredited, having been re-accredited in July General Manager, Group Human Resources.
The Groups approach 2003 and February 2004 respectively.
to employment-related performance, such as safety and sickness absence, is to set targets in line with best practice in similar The Group places a significant emphasis on internal industries.
The Group reports its safety performance to the ENA.
Employee communications occur through a Equal opportunity measures and reporting are formally presented to variety of channels, including team briefings, employee surveys, the Equality Commission.
The Groups equal opportunities policy involvement groups, company forums and through interaction and commits the Group to providing equality of opportunity for all consultation with trade unions.
Communications are managed at employees and job applicants.
Employment decisions exclude the individual level and the PPR processes have been designed to consideration of an individuals religious belief, political opinion, include upward feedback.
During the year an employee survey gender, marital status, family status, dependency, disability, race, comprising both written questionnaires and focus groups was ethnic origin, nationality, sexual preference, age, irrelevant criminal undertaken to identify the views of employees on a range of convictions or any other personal factor which is not relevant.
opportunities, harassment and disability policies have been updated to remain consistent with best practice and changing legislation.
The Groups last disability survey showed that 2.2% of employees considered themselves as having a disability.
28 Corporate Social Responsibility Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 significant progress towards its price control target to encourage Environment 1,000 micro-renewable installations, with 291 completed and a Harry McCracken, Group Managing Director VP&E, is the Board further 337 being developed.
NIE was awarded the Excellence in member with responsibility for environmental issues.
The Environmental Achievement Award at the Belfast Telegraph Business environmental policy commits the Group to protecting the Awards in April 2005. environment and is designed to ensure compliance with all relevant legislative and regulatory requirements.
Where practical and The Group provides financial support to Action Renewables, a joint economically viable, the Group seeks to develop standards in excess venture with DETI aimed at raising awareness and encouraging the of such requirements.
Areas of particular focus include measures to installation of renewable energy technologies in Northern Ireland.
protect against oil pollution, the responsible management of emissions and waste and the promotion of energy efficiency.
An ESCo Energy Services Company project team has been established within NIE Supply to oversee sustainable energy Annual and five year targets are set for NIE and Powerteam in the activities, regulated and unregulated, and to consider business environmental action plan.
Performance indicators have been set opportunities in this emerging field.
for all relevant new contractors to reduce waste to landfill.
NIE and Powerteam have 24 trained environmental auditors and 15 audits The NIE Sustainable Management of Assets and Renewable were completed during the year.
The Group has designated Technologies SMART programme www.
co. uk is part of environmental compliance officers for its relevant operations.
the current regulatory framework agreed between T&D and NIAER.
Following the seventh environmental management survey conducted The programme has been developed to support emerging renewable by ARENA Network in Northern Ireland in 2004, the Group attained technologies and to encourage  approaches the top position for the utilities sector, achieving an overall score of to the provision of T&D network infrastructure to meet customer 95.8%.
The sector average was 80%, with an overall average of demand in Northern Ireland.
A total of 37 renewable programmes 65% for all participating organisations.
There were no prosecutions and projects is now being funded and managed under the SMART for non-compliance with environmental legislation during the year.
Technologies targeted for support include photovoltaics, solar water heating, biomass, Since June 2001, NIE and Powerteam have been certified to ISO domestic CHP, tidal power and hydro-electric power.
14001 and continued certification was approved during the year.
The environmental management system was updated during the Energia continues to promote energy efficiency schemes through the year to ensure compliance with the new ISO 14001: 2004 standard, Customer Energy Efficiency Levy approved by NIAER.
In 2005 06 a which came into effect in May 2006.
External verification of total of 52 schemes was supported delivering estimated annual compliance with the new standard was confirmed in March 2006. savings of 0.4m.
Huntstown 1 operates in compliance with its Integrated Pollution Control IPC licence, with reporting on emissions based on calendar Marketplace years.
For calendar year 2005, the stations emissions of NO, SO x 2 The Group aims to be transparent and ethical in all its dealings with and CO were 512 tonnes, 0.3 tonnes and 851,847 tonnes 2 third parties and has a number of policies in place to underpin this respectively.
In 2006 Huntstown 1 achieved full verification objective.
Policies include internal whistleblowing procedures as compliance under the ETS through surrendering CO credits to 2 well as the Groups corporate governance arrangements.
The new meet its CO emissions for calendar year 2005 well within the 2 ethical dealing policy was communicated to employees during allotted time frame.
During the year, Huntstown 1 progressed the year.
towards attaining ISO 14001 for its plant environmental system and management process.
Huntstown 1 is exempt from the The Groups procurement practices aim to ensure transparency and requirements of the LCP Directive, as transposed into RoI law, fairness in dealings with suppliers, including a policy to make having been licensed and put into operation before the applicable payment to suppliers in accordance with agreed terms of business.
date when they came into force.
Notwithstanding its exemption, the plant complies with the emission limits for NO, SO and dust under x 2 As a major purchaser the Group recognises that it has an the LCP Directive.
opportunity to encourage suppliers of materials and services to deliver good environmental and safety performance and to maintain During the year NIE Supply managed a 4.6m energy efficiency responsible practices towards their employees and the communities programme, approved by NIAER and audited by the Energy Saving in which they operate.
The Group subscribes to the Achilles utilities Trust.
This programme is aimed at reducing CO emissions and 2 vendor database to pre-qualify potential suppliers for major alleviating fuel poverty.
During the year a total of 26 energy contracts: this assessment includes environmental and health and efficiency schemes were implemented with estimated lifetime safety practices.
All suppliers are pre-qualified on a fair and equal reductions of 400GWh in energy demand.
The Groups procurement team carries out supplier estimated 112,000 tonnes of CO savings and customer benefits of 2 assessments on other contracts not processed through Achilles, 23m over the lifetime of these measures.
Many of these schemes through an assessment of environmental and health and safety were developed to target the most vulnerable customers providing practices as submitted in tender documentation.
Evidence that whole house energy efficiency solutions.
In addition, through potential vendors support and respect  commitments in NIE Supplys price control, a further 15m of human rights is sought during the invitation-to-tender stage of the lifetime savings to customers has been delivered through investment procurement process.
in energy efficiency measures since 2000.
NIE Supply has continued to promote EcoEnergy, its green electricity tariff, which currently has 18,200 customers.
NIE Supply has also made Corporate Social Responsibility 29 During the year the procurement team reviewed its invitation-toNIE aims to ensure that its customers receive a quality service at an tender documents to request CSR information, updated its supplier affordable price.
By the end of RP3, T&D prices will have reduced questionnaire to include ethical questions and developed a CSR and by around 43% in real terms since privatisation.
T&Ds strong quality check-list for supplier audits.
Six audits were completed record of cost efficiency, delivered while improving network during the year.
performance and performance against customer standards, is part of its mainstream business commitment to the community.
Key Following three years of business growth in the RoI, Energia won the performance indicators used to report network performance and Queens Award for Enterprise: International Trade in 2005. customer service include CML, guaranteed and overall standards and customer complaints.
Further details on T&Ds operating performance during the year are outlined in the Operating Review.
Community NIE offers a number of services to its customers that are promoted Through its mainstream business activities and its community through its codes of practice and through various advice providers, involvement policy, the Group seeks to contribute to economic and including Citizens Advice Bureaux, Advice NI and Energy Efficiency social development and environmental improvements in the local Advice Centres.
The codes are produced in several different communities in which it operates, both in Northern Ireland and in languages.
NIE aims to assist its customers with special needs the RoI.
The Groups community involvement policy is aligned to through a number of these services.
The total number of customers three key themes: growth, safety and environment.
using the critical care register is 2,662, with 2,593 on the customer care register.
At 31 March 2006, 651 customers were users of NIEs During the year, NIE operated an on-going public safety awareness password scheme, a service which provides customers with programme, promoting the importance of electrical safety to farmers additional proof of identity of agents calling at their homes.
and agricultural and building contractors through the HSENI and NIE farm safety road show, safety presentations and farm safety During the year, the Group sponsored various charities and leaflets.
The NIE-initiated Kidzsafe programme, conducted in organisations with sponsorship totalling 145,000.
Other examples association with other agencies including the Department of the of community involvement during the year included: Environment, the Northern Ireland Fire Brigade and the Police Service of Northern Ireland, raises safety awareness among school the Viridian Growth Fund, which is supported by public and children in an effort to reduce incidences of vandalism and private sector investors including the Group and VGPS, had, at electricity-related injuries.
Over 13,800 school children attended 31 March 2006, invested a total of 3.1m in developing presentations under this safety awareness programme during the businesses in Northern Ireland: year and the NIE Kidzsafe website www.
co. uk continues major sponsor of the Enzyme project, designed to encourage to support the programme.
entrepreneurs through an incubation and mentoring process: NIE offers contractors undertaking roadworks a wide range of advice a one-off donation of 30,000 on behalf of Viridian shareholders and assistance to help them avoid damaging electrical underground to the Salvation Army and St. Vincent fide Paul NI: cables.
This includes advice leaflets, videos and providing the Princes Trust and Young Enterprise initiatives, both diagrams, when requested, of the underground electricity network, supported through the provision of office accommodation and as well as advising contractors to check NIEs website other facilities: www.
co. uk for additional safety advice.
participation in the Tree For All campaign organised by the Woodland Trust: The Group recognises the social dimension of debt management the coaching of chief executives of local voluntary organisations and NIE Supply continues to offer a wide range of payment options by senior managers within the Group: and debt prevention measures.
As part of its price control, NIE Supply has a target to install 175,000 keypad meters by March assisting voluntary sector organisations in the recruitment of key 2007.
At 31 March 2006 some 170,000 meters were installed.
staff and the development of human resource policies and This pay-as-you-go metering enables customers to budget for their procedures: electricity payments, whilst attracting a 2.5% discount on the provision of guidance and advice on energy efficiency, standard price of electricity, and provides friendly credit and userrenewable energy and safety at the Royal Ulster Agricultural friendly consumption information.
There are over 1,300 outlets in Societys annual show: Northern Ireland from which NIE Supply customers can buy keypad monthly presentations to various business representative groups meter credits, as well as a telephone vending facility.
including the Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of Small Businesses: NIE provides financial and in-kind support for Northern Irelands further support for the NIE Farm Energy Scholarship Scheme Energy Efficiency Advice Centres and engages with organisations offering financial assistance to students from Northern Ireland including the Fuel Poverty Partnership Group and the Department of attending Harper Adams University College: and Social Development.
sponsorship of two engineering students at university.
30 Corporate Social Responsibility Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005-2006 Stakeholder Engagement The Group recognises the importance of engaging with its stakeholders.
The Group recognises a range of stakeholders, including its shareholders, customers, employees, the wider community, those representing the environment and its suppliers.
During the year a stakeholder engagement strategy was developed to capture more clearly the totality of the Groups stakeholder engagement in relation to CSR.
Stakeholder engagement has been referred to throughout this CSR Report.
Other examples of stakeholder activity during the year included: regular interaction with the Consumer Council on a wide range of customer issues including complaints: regular interaction and consultation with NIAER, CER and DETI: a critical care customer contact day and interaction with health trusts to ensure that appropriate customers benefit from the critical care scheme: independent external market research to obtain feedback from NIE Supplys business customers, as well as monthly internal market research for NIE Supplys HomeEnergy business customers: a review of NIE Supplys literature communications in partnership with minority representative organisations: discussion with the Department for Social Development, Advice NI, Citizens Advice Bureaux, Eaga Partnership and other representative groups to develop NIEs proposal for a vulnerable customer fund to help alleviate fuel poverty: networking with a broad range of business representative groups such as federations of retail trade, town centre managers, enterprise agencies and Women in Business to heighten awareness of issues affecting the local business community: an energy efficiency seminar inviting representative organisations to work in partnership with NIE: interaction with the Home Energy Conservation Authority Advisory Panel, Fuel Poverty Advisory Group, Advice NI and Citizens Advice Bureaux: ongoing discussions with trade unions on a wide range of issues including pay negotiations, terms and conditions, productivity improvements and policies: a seminar with major civil contractors to advise how to avoid electricity cables when carrying out excavation work: briefings on energy issues to relevant elected representatives and politicians in both Northern Ireland and the RoI: representation on the NI Infrastructure Emergencies Planning Forum: and liaison with contractors, landowners and environmental representatives, including the Environment and Heritage Service when undertaking environmental impact assessments.
The Groups CSR policy and other CSR information can be found on the Groups website www.
co. uk under Corporate Responsibility.
