Corporate Responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility journey 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Group and operating Values and Business Seven key CR initiatives Social Products and Five-year CR strategy set out company CR teams created Principles established launched Enterprise Team set up Responsible Network First CR Report published Code of Ethical Purchasing Responsible Marketing Deployment Policy approved developed Guidelines issued Privacy Steering Committee EMF Board created Content Standards Steering set up Committee set up How Vodafone is rated by investors and CR benchmarks Research carried out by Sustainable Investment Research International SiRi found that on 30 June 2005 Vodafone was the number one stock most frequently selected by socially responsible funds in Europe.
Rating Benchmark Vodafones performance AccountAbility Vodafone was ranked third out of the Global Fortune 100 in AccountAbilitys 2005 Rating Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Vodafone was included in the 2005 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index FTSE4Good Index Vodafone was included in the FTSE4Good Index Global 100 Most Sustainable Vodafone was included in the Global 100 Most Sustainable Companies Corporate Knights Companies, based on research by Innovest Strategic Value Advisors.
Governance Metrics International Vodafone received the maximum score of 10 in 2005 Morley Fund Management Vodafone was rated B2 in the FTSE100 and Europtop 50 Matrix in 2005 Corporate Responsibility Embedding CR in the way we do business Vodafone sees corporate responsibility CR as the process of Vodafones approach to business is underpinned by our understanding stakeholders expectations of the Company Business Principles.
They cover both corporate and individual and taking action to meet those expectations where they are behaviour and are communicated to employees through realistic and legitimate.
By stakeholders we mean customers, induction processes, websites and briefings.
employees, suppliers, the communities where we operate, www.
com responsibility businessprinciples governments, regulators and representatives of civil society as well as investors.
CR is embedded in Vodafones values.
One of our four values is Passion for the world around us.
We believe that CR issues Stakeholder engagement: key learnings are most effectively managed as part of our core business We engage with stakeholders in a variety of ways so that processes rather than as a separate add-on.
we understand what people expect.
For example, during the year we held meetings on CR issues with 15 investors, we Our CR strategy surveyed 146 CR opinion leaders in 11 European countries Our vision for 2010 is to be one of the most trusted companies and had four roundtable meetings with NGOs, academics, in the markets where we operate.
In 2005, we developed a CR organisations and socially responsible investors.
We learned five-year CR strategy to help us realise this vision.
It sets clear that the emerging issues in the CR agenda are: privacy, priorities to: bribery and corruption and the role of companies in disaster Maintain high ethical standards: situations.
We conducted research with the public on the subject of mobiles, masts and health which involved over Understand our stakeholders priorities: 17,000 interviews across 18 markets.
Ensure our operating standards are consistent across the Group: Reporting about the most important issues Deliver on our promises in three key areas: responsibility We have identified the following CR issues as global priorities to our customers: reuse and recycling of mobile phones: for Vodafone: clear pricing, content standards, energy use, and energy and climate change: and handset recycling, network rollout, radio frequency RF fields Capture the potential of mobile to bring socio-economic and health, supply chain issues and tax.
The Companys CR value through access to communications.
Report for the 2006 financial year presents our performance on these issues.
12 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 M-PESA The M-PESA pilot project gives people in Kenya access to micro-finance services from their mobile phones.
Low income people will no longer have to store their money under the mattress M-PESA user I havent needed to go to the bank in two and a half months M-PESA user Highlights of the year: suppliers have been reviewed for risk, over 80 suppliers have The Vodafone Speaking Phone for visually impaired people completed a self assessment process and 15 site evaluations has been fully launched in six markets and test launched in have been completed: one other: Vodafone and its operating companies made charitable With support from the UK Department for International donations of 38.1 million to The Vodafone Group Development, a mobile micro-finance platform called Foundation, local Vodafone Foundations and social projects: M-PESA has been trialled in Kenya.
The payment platform We have begun the implementation of the Responsible is being used to repay loans and transfer cash: Network Deployment Guidelines: Six operating companies implemented controls to help parents 14 of our 15 operating businesses now publish information prevent their children accessing inappropriate content: on radio frequency field strength values at independently We helped develop the GSM Associations code of practice on selected locations showing that RF fields in publicly spam and committed to introduce anti-spam conditions into accessible places close to base stations are substantially all new contracts with relevant third party suppliers, enabling below guideline levels: suspension or termination of the mobile contracts of those We reduced carbon dioxide emissions per unit of data who originate spam messages: transmitted by 10%: Group guidelines on premium rate subscription services A new target is to achieve a 40% reduction on carbon dioxide have been developed.
The guidelines recommend that emissions per unit of data traffic by March 2011: mobile operating subsidiaries require providers of premium rate subscription services to advertise clearly and send a 97% of our network equipment waste was sent for reuse confirmation text to customers when they sign up explaining or recycling: and applicable charges and clearly stating how to opt out: In addition to the Companys CR Report, 10 of our mobile We launched Vodafone Passport to provide clearer and operating businesses have now published their own easier-to-understand costs for our customers when roaming: CR reports.
A risk based approach has been introduced across the Group Further details of CR performance are in the Companys to prioritise which suppliers require further assessment for CR Report for the 2006 financial year and at compliance against the Code of Ethical Purchasing.
com responsibility Vodafone Group Plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2006 13
