Employees Vodafone employs approximately 60,000 people worldwide, with a goal to recruit, Vodafone is focused on continually improving and, as a result, the Company has develop and retain the most talented, motivated people that are well aligned with the identified three areas to be addressed through co-ordinated global and local action: Vodafone brand essence.
The Company aims to do this by providing a good, safe To take a genuine interest in employees and their development, by taking a more working environment, treating people with respect and offering attractive incentives and proactive approach to developing employees, with a specific emphasis on coaching opportunities.
Training and development programmes help employees to develop their and feedback.
This area will be supported by the global launch of a performance skills and experience and to reach their full potential, benefiting themselves and the management process in the next financial year and the launch of selected functional Company.
Academies which focus on the professional and skills development offered to employees: Employee Involvement To improve the Groups understanding of the underlying customer focus issues in The Boards aim is to ensure that Vodafone people understand the Groups each market and identify improvements in the service offered.
Meeting customers strategic goals and the mutual obligations of working in a high performing, requirements remains at the heart of the business and will continue to differentiate values-based organisation.
Vodafone from our competition: and To develop practical global frameworks and guidelines to help employees effectively Vodafones values continue to provide a common way of doing things and are implicit in manage change within the business.
all that the Group does for and with its shareholders, customers and employees.
During the year, Vodafone launched a major employee engagement initiative to bring alive the The next Employee Survey is scheduled to take place in the 2007 financial year.
essence of the Vodafone brand.
Red, Rock Solid, Restless is the cornerstone to changing the culture of the Group by inspiring the behaviour of employees in their interactions with customers and other stakeholders.
Employment Policies The Groups employment policies are consistent with the principles of the United The Board places a high priority on effective employee communications to create a Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour dialogue with the Groups people.
In addition to the more traditional channels, the Group Organisation Core Conventions and are developed to reflect local legal, cultural and increasingly uses its own products and services, such as SMS and audio based employment requirements.
High standards are maintained wherever the Group messaging, and is currently trialling 3G video based internal communications media in operates, as Vodafone aims to ensure that the Group is recognised as an employer of some local markets.
This is the natural next step in the evolution of VTV, the Groups choice.
Employees at all levels and in all companies are encouraged to make the successful intranet based business television service.
greatest possible contribution to the Groups success.
The Group considers its employee relations to be good.
The Chief Executive and other members of the executive management team continue to host the Talkabout programme, which aims to visit each of the Groups local operating companies every year.
In the Talkabout sessions, the executive team use the Equal Opportunities opportunity to discuss the Groups strategic goals with as wide an audience of Vodafone Vodafone does not condone unfair treatment of any kind and operates an equal people as possible, listening to their views and talking about the issues that matter most opportunities policy for all aspects of employment and advancement, regardless of race, to them, as well as exchanging ideas about how Vodafone can serve its customers as a nationality, sex, age, marital status, disability or religious or political belief.
In practice, single, global team.
this means that the Group is able to select the best people available for positions on the basis of merit and capability, making the most effective use of the talents and All of these initiatives are supported and enhanced by a comprehensive range of award experience of people in the business, providing them with the opportunity to develop winning in-house publications for effectively sharing information with employees on and realise their potential.
key performance indicators for the business.
The Vodafone intranet was recently included by Nielsen Norman Research in their authoritative list as one of the ten best intranets in the world.
The Disabled The directors are conscious of the special difficulties experienced by people with Vodafones success is driven by the passion and effort of the Groups employees.
Every effort is made to ensure ready access to the Groups facilities and return, Vodafone values employees opinions on improving the performance of the services and a range of products has been developed for people with special needs.
Within European subsidiaries, employee representatives meet annually with addition, disabled people are assured of full and fair consideration for all vacancies for members of the executive management team in the Vodafone European Employee which they offer themselves as suitable candidates and efforts are made to meet their Consultative Council to discuss the performance and prospects of the Group and special needs, particularly in relation to access and mobility.
Where possible, significant trans-national issues.
modifications to workplaces have been made to provide access and, therefore, job opportunities for the disabled.
Every effort is made to continue the employment of In 2005, Vodafone carried out its second biennial Employee Survey to measure the people who become disabled via the provision of additional facilities, job design and the levels of employee satisfaction and engagement.
89% of employees from 17 countries, provision of appropriate training.
including Japan, took part to inform the Company on its progression on the key issues highlighted by the first survey in 2003.
Health, Safety and Wellbeing The results showed that Vodafone employees had responded more positively in 2005 The health, safety and wellbeing of the Groups customers, employees and others who than in 2003.
Specific results indicated that the overwhelming majority of employees could be affected by its activities are of paramount importance to Vodafone and the are proud to work for Vodafone, understand the importance of Vodafones values, know Group applies rigorous standards to all of its operations.
the results expected of them in their jobs and have a good understanding of Vodafones strategic goals and priorities.
The number of employees agreeing with the statement The health and safety management in each operating company is audited annually and I am proud to work for Vodafone was equal to the high performance norm for the results are submitted in a report for discussion by the Board.
The Groups annual companies on the Fortune list of Most Admired Companies.
global health and safety audit has shown a consistent rise in scores every year since inception in 2002.
New standards, policies and a health and safety management system have been implemented, with an increase in consultation, participation and best practice sharing by health and safety professionals from the operating companies.
These will be further developed in the next financial year.
58 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
