Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues Corporate Responsibility Socially inclusive products Vodafone sees corporate responsibility CR as the process of understanding the Vodafone is working to improve peoples access to mobile communications and is expectations of stakeholders in the Group and taking appropriate action to meet those developing products and services that support health and personal security and use expectations where they are realistic and legitimate.
Stakeholders include customers, secure mobile messaging to facilitate micro-finance in developing countries.
In February investors, employees, suppliers, the communities where the Group operates and where 2006, Vodafone announced a commitment of 5 million over a period of four years to networks are based, governments and regulators and representatives of civil society.
the Groups Social Investment Fund.
The fund facilitates the development of commercially viable products and services with high social value, particularly those that CR is relevant across all aspects of business strategy and is encapsulated in the Groups increase accessibility.
Examples of initiatives during the year include: strategic goal of being a responsible business.
The Executive Committee, chaired by the The Vodafone Speaking Phone with screen reader software for the blind and visually Chief Executive, receives regular information on CR and the Director of Corporate impaired, has been fully launched in six markets and test launched in one other.
An Responsibility provides an annual report to the Board.
All mobile operating companies assessment of the availability of handsets with accessibility features and an have a representative on their management boards with responsibility for CR.
For investigation into the compatibility of hearing aids and mobile phones have been purposes of this section of the Annual Report, all mobile operating companies refers to completed.
the Groups mobile operating subsidiaries and the Groups joint venture in Italy, with the exception of the newly acquired operations in Czech Republic and Romania and the A mobile micro-finance platform called M-pesa has been trialled in Kenya, with Swedish operations which were disposed of in the year.
The CR impact of the Japanese support from the UK Department for International Development.
The payment operations has been included in the information presented in this section, reflecting the platform is being used to enable customers without local bank infrastructure to Groups responsibility for its impact throughout the 2006 financial year.
Systems for data move money between accounts and to make remittances.
collection on corporate responsibility and environmental issues are being put in place for the 2007 financial year for the Czech Republic and Romania.
Parental controls Two mobile operating companies have implemented parental control tools to enable CR is at the heart of Vodafones values and is clearly linked to one of the Groups four customers to protect their children by restricting access to adult oriented wap and passions, Passion for the world around us.
Vodafones approach to business is internet sites.
A further three mobile operating companies have launched access underpinned by the Business Principles which cover, amongst other things, controls for Vodafone live!
environment, employees, individual conduct and community and society.
The Business Principles are available on www.
com responsibility businessprinciples and are Group guidelines on premium rate subscription services have been developed.
The communicated to employees in a number of ways, including induction processes, guidelines recommend that mobile operating companies require providers of premium websites and briefings.
In the 2006 financial year, CR matters were included within the rate subscription services to advertise clearly and send a confirmation text to customers Groups development programme for directors and senior managers.
when they sign up explaining applicable charges and clearly stating how to opt out.
Vodafone aims to integrate CR into the business and this is being reflected in Earning the trust of customers governance, policy, process and reporting.
For example, CR is integrated into Vodafones Vodafone values its long-term reputation with customers.
Several issues are key to risk management processes such as the formal annual confirmation provided by each maintaining customers trust, including the clarity of the pricing, marketing mobile operating company detailing the operation of their controls system, as outlined communications and the way Vodafone handles the confidentiality of customers on page 55. communications and personal information.
CR performance is closely monitored and reports are provided to most mobile operating During the year, two major initiatives that provide clearer and easier to understand costs company boards on a regular basis.
This has driven demonstrable performance for customers were launched: improvement and is valuable in benchmarking.
Vodafone Passport offers clearer pricing for international roaming, with a one off These processes are supported by stakeholder engagement, which seeks to provide a connection fee per call.
Vodafone Passport won the 2006 GSM Association award for clear understanding of expectations of performance.
The Group engages with Best Roaming Product or Service.
To date, over 6 million customers have subscribed stakeholders in a variety of different ways.
For example, during the financial year, to Vodafone Passport.
meetings relating to CR issues were held with 15 investors: a quantitative perception For the Vodafone Mobile Connect data card tariffs, which offer high speed internet survey was carried out with 146 opinion leaders including academics, non connection to laptops, a monthly roaming bundle was developed to make roaming governmental organisations and policy makers in 11 European countries and face to costs more predictable.
face meetings were held with non governmental organisations and opinion formers.
This process of stakeholder engagement helps to ensure Vodafone is aware of the issues In November 2005, Vodafone adopted a group wide privacy policy that covers the relevant to the business and that it is focused on the priority areas.
This is covered in collection, storage and use of our customers personal information.
The policy is more detail in the Companys CR Report for the 2006 financial year, which can be found overseen by a Privacy Steering Group, a cross functional body made up of senior at www.
management, and requires the appointment of a Privacy Officer by each Vodafone mobile operating company with day-to-day responsibility for compliance.
An overview of Vodafone has maintained last years level of independent assessment and assurance of Vodafones Privacy Policy is available at www.
the CR programme and performance data.
The scope of work for the Groups auditors includes a review of certain environmental, community and health and safety The programme of responsible marketing and advertising continued, shifting the focus performance data across the business, the progress achieved against commitments set from control to awareness raising.
Upheld complaints received by advertising regulatory in the 2005 financial year, as well as to review the management and reporting of CR bodies were monitored throughout the markets.
Most of these related to price claims matters against the requirements of the assurance standard AA1000 AS, issued by and clarity.
This identifies, in all material respects, whether reporting reflects the material CR issues of the Group as defined by the standard, whether processes are in Supply chain place to ensure a complete understanding of the issues, and whether Vodafone is The Group continues to implement Vodafones Code of Ethical Purchasing CEP, which responding adequately to identified stakeholders expectations.
The assurance sets out environmental and labour standards for suppliers.
statement is published in the Companys CR Report.
Corporate responsibility is one of six pillars in Vodafones overall Supplier Performance Over the last year, progress has been made in responding to the Groups stakeholders Management system.
The most significant developments are summarised below and further Over 80% of purchasing managers and staff from across the Group have received details are provided in the Companys CR Report and on training on the CEP.
In addition to the Companys CR Report, ten mobile operating subsidiaries have produced their own CR reports.
A risk based approach has been introduced across the Group to prioritise which suppliers require further assessment for compliance against the CEP.
In the 2006 Vodafone is included in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
financial year, over 600 suppliers have been reviewed for risk and over 80 suppliers have completed a self assessment process.
15 site evaluations have been completed.
Vodafone continues to work with other information and communication technology companies to develop a common approach to managing CR in the supply chain.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006 59 Governance Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues continued Socio-economic potential of mobiles Reuse and recycling Following on from research published in the 2005 financial year on the broader impact Mobile phones, accessories and the networks on which they operate require upgrading, of mobile telecommunications in Africa, the Group commissioned and published replacement and decommissioning.
Whilst Vodafone does not manufacture mobile research into the impact of mobile phones in healthcare.
The study demonstrated how phones or equipment, the Group is committed to working closely with suppliers to existing voice and text message applications could increase productivity, improve improve the sustainability of mobiles and network equipment.
Waste management patient health and enable greater access to health services in the developed and involves minimisation, reuse and recycling before waste disposal.
The following were developing world.
Further information is available at www.
achieved during the year: 1.37 million phones have been collected for reuse and recycling and collection Social investment programmes are in place in 15 mobile operating companies.
The Vodafone Group Foundation and family of local foundations have continued to Initiatives have been launched to raise awareness and encourage recycling.
These implement a programme of grant making activity.
In the 2006 financial year, the process include offering incentives for customers and promoting handset recycling with of establishing new local foundations in the Czech Republic and Albania was initiated.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, the Company made cash charitable donations of 97% of network equipment waste was sent for reuse or recycling.
24.0 million to The Vodafone Group Foundation.
In addition, Group operating companies donated a further 10.0 million to local Vodafone Foundations and a further Environmental Performance Indicators 6.9 million directly to a variety of causes.
These donations total 40.9 million and 1 1 2006 2005 include donations of 2.5 million made as required by the terms of certain network Number of mobile operating subsidiaries undertaking operating licences.
More details regarding the activities of The Vodafone Group independent RF field monitoring 15 14 Foundation and local Vodafone Foundations can be found in the Companys CR Report for the 2006 financial year.
Total energy use GWh direct and indirect 3,198 2,600 Total carbon dioxide emissions millions of tonnes 1.31 1.2 Environmental Issues % of energy sourced from renewables 12 11 The Group continues to monitor and manage the impact of its activities on the Number of phones collected for reuse and environment and is committed to minimising adverse impacts in an appropriate manner.
recycling million 1.37 1.27 Over the last 12 months, progress has been made across a series of projects that address environmental issues, including mobile phones, masts and health: responsible network % network equipment waste sent for reuse or recycling 97 96 deployment: energy use and efficiency: and the reuse and recycling of equipment.
Note: 1 These performance indicators were calculated using actual or estimated data collected by the Groups mobile operating companies.
The data is sourced from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations where required.
The carbon dioxide emissions figure is calculated using the Kwh CO2 Mobile phones, masts and health conversion factor for the electricity provided by the national grid and for other energy sources in each operating Vodafone supports research, aligned to World Health Organisation WHO priorities, to company.
The data collection and reporting process is within the assurance undertaken by Deloitte & Touche LLP on the Companys CR Report.
The data for the 2005 financial year excludes newly acquired operations in the Czech resolve scientific uncertainty relating to mobile phones, masts and health, and is Republic and Romania and operations in Sweden that were sold during 2006.
It includes the Groups joint venture in committed to reducing public concern by making objective information widely available Italy and the discontinued operation in Japan.
to stakeholders and by engaging in open, transparent dialogue.
In the 2006 financial year, the Group engaged with a wide range of external and internal stakeholders through surveys, guidelines consistent with WHO advice, Vodafone websites and other existing forms of communications, to promote a consistent and high level of understanding on the subject.
Vodafone also led the industry on the introduction of bodyworn testing of all handsets sold in Europe.
This involves testing exposure to RF Radio Frequency fields not only to the head but to other parts of the body.
Please also refer to note 31 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Responsible network deployment Vodafones mobile services rely on a network of base stations that transmit and receive calls.
The Group recognises that network roll out can cause concern to communities, usually about the visual impact of base stations or health issues concerning RF fields.
This year, Vodafone was found in breach of planning regulations relating to 46 mast sitings.
Fines levied by regulatory bodies or Courts in relation to offences under environmental law or regulations were approximately 63,000.
To address these challenges, Vodafone began implementing a Group policy and guidelines on responsible network deployment.
These set out consistent standards for all mobile operating companies on legal compliance, environmental impact, RF emissions, site planning and selection, communication and consultation, and landlord relationships.
Energy use and efficiency A consequence of the Groups business growth is increasing energy demand to run the network.
This is Vodafones most significant environmental impact and limiting the Groups contribution to climate change is a priority.
In partnership with equipment manufacturers, Vodafone is improving the energy efficiency of the network so that data and voice can be transmitted with greater efficiency.
In the 2006 financial year: Energy use increased 23% to 3,198 GWh, equating to 1.31 million tonnes of carbon dioxide.
There has been a 22% increase from the previous year in the amount of renewable energy used by the Group and this has resulted in 12% of total grid energy being sourced from renewables.
Vodafone has also trialled onsite renewable energy technologies including the use of hydrogen fuel cells, wind generators and solar power.
60 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2006
