VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:19 Page 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT GOVERNANCE MARKETPLACE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY HEALTH AND SAFETY ENVIRONMENT 48 RECOGNISING AND MANAGING OUR IMPACT WE RECOGNISE THAT OUR OPERATIONS HAVE THE POTENTIAL FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT BOTH LOCAL TO OUR SITES AND THE WIDER GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT.
WE REGARD LEGAL COMPLIANCE AS A MINIMUM STANDARD FOR OPERATING PERFORMANCE.
DURING THE PAST 12 MONTHS THERE HAVE BEEN NO MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS OR PROSECUTIONS.
Operating near environmentally sensitive sites VT Halmatic is currently putting in place an action plan to meet their obligations under the requirements of Integrated We are aware that a number of our operations take Pollution and Prevention Control.
place near sites designated either for special protection Ramsar protected wetlands, Sites of Special Scientific The board is currently reviewing the groups environmental Interest SSSI or are in areas of outstanding natural policy and setting goals and KPIs.
Each business has its beauty.
The operating companies take special account of own environmental policy and will set and measure additional proximity to such sites and ensure liaison with KPIs appropriate to its environmental aspects.
The data appropriate authorities and the local communities.
gathered over the next 12 months will form the baseline for continuous improvement and future reporting.
VT Communications operate in remote locations near to the SSSI in the English Nature site in Cumbria where rare As part of its commitment to continuous improvement in wild orchids and Natterjack toads are found.
The seas environmental performance, the group has over the last around Ascension Island are designated a Marine 12 months carried out a number of assessments and Protection Zone in the islands Charter and in 2005 audits of its shipbuilding operations.
These assessments investments in additional protection against pollution are forming the basis of our forward action plans.
the next year we are focussing on the verification and consolidation of data to ensure robustness and Portsmouth harbour is home to a bass spawning ground transparency.
and is a designated protected wetland, an SSSI with a rich ecology supporting much birdlife.
VT Shipbuilding VT Communications have an environmental management works closely with its partners in Team Portsmouth to system in place which applies to all locations worldwide.
ensure permits are rigorously observed.
The business recognises concerns regarding electromagnetic radiation and takes steps to Key Environmental Aspect: Energy be fully informed of international scientific research and helping to meet the Kyoto Commitment advice and that close liaison is maintained with employees and with local communities.
We reported last year that VT Shipbuilding was part of the Team Portsmouth registration with the EU Emissions VT Education and Skills has low direct environmental Trading Scheme ETS.
In this first year of operation of the impacts and will be reviewing aspects of energy use scheme, Team Portsmouth has submitted its report on and transport.
Office-based recycling programmes time, and has succeeded in beating its CO emission 2 are established.
allocation by almost one third 8241 tonnes, 29%, VT Defence ensures environmental controls are in place and reducing emissions by 41% over the baseline for the vessels it operates, the training facilities for fire set in 2003. services and airfield support services.
In the US, VT Services Inc. ensures compliance with both customer and US Federal laws through operational control processes and training for all personnel.
VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2006 VTG011 R&A 2006 IFC-51 13 6 06 14:19 Page 49 PROTECTING EMPLOYEES AND THE PUBLIC 49 B Steve Gray from VT Communications monitoring electromagnetic radiation levels at VT's transmission facility at Rampisham, Dorset.
Electromagnetic radiation surveys are Along with other operators of RF carried out to ensure that RF exposure installations, VTC are members of the Safety levels are not exceeded at all site public Advisory Discussion Group, which reviews boundaries.
Precautions and arrangements Radio Frequency health and planning issues.
are in place to ensure that the International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection basic restrictions are not exceeded, which accords with the current EU Directive on worker exposure.
This result has been achieved through the switch in VT Communications has recognised that energy primary heating fuel from oil to gas, allied with changes in consumption is a major environmental aspect of its operating practice.
Planned improvements to the heating business and energy use is monitored weekly as a infrastructure are expected to yield further dividends in business KPI.
A business Energy Forum develops the next trading period.
forward strategies for energy reduction, shares best practice and leads technology change and employee training.
2005 06 improvement programmes include: CO EMISSIONS 2 energy surveys with the Carbon Trust using technology to reduce broadcast energy use CO emitted tonnes 2 4% reduction in global energy use achieved so far Baseline 2003 33,919 by investing in Optimod technology sourcing energy from renewable sources, and investing 2004 05 28,351 in renewables for example we are evaluating the use 2005 06 20,110 of wind turbines on locations such as Ascension Island investment in new energy efficient transmitters
