Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our approach framework allowing organisations to ensure that they are The Weir Group is a global organisation, working in sectors and consistently and accurately identifying hazards and risks within industries that have a significant impact on human and natural their organisation.
Providing a platform for eliminating and resources.
As an organisation, our core values include integrity, managing these identified risks, the system supports the self-determination and valuing people.
These values ensure we organisation to continually improve its products, people and remain focused on meeting our responsibilities to our customers, process by fulfilling the overhanging safety policy that indicates suppliers, employees and shareholders, as well as to the the companys commitment and objectives.
OHSAS 18001 communities where we work.
offers a proactive approach to reducing accidents, near misses, and other incidents year on year.
By ensuring that corporate social responsibility is an inherent part of leadership that crosses all boundaries in our organisation, we seek to Employees combine business success with support for people, communities and The root cause of 95% of accidents is as a result of behaviours.
We recognise that corporate social responsibility Conventional approaches to accident reduction will go some requires us first and foremost to listen to our external and internal way to help achieve the business goal of reducing injuries in customers in everything we do and to respond to their needs through the workplace.
However, to further reduce accident rates, a the enduring excellence of our actions, policies and processes.
behavioural approach to safety must be adopted.
There are a variety of programmes that have been developed to meet We involve and inform our employees as much as possible within this need but many have been found to be cumbersome, regulatory constraints.
Given the diverse nature and geographical over complicated for much of the workforce and ultimately spread of our operations, it would be inappropriate and impractical impractical if covering a wide variety of workplace hazards.
to apply uniform procedures group-wide and each company is therefore responsible for achieving and maintaining appropriate The Weir Group has adopted a behavioural system known as consultation and communication with its employees.
The programme is designed to supplement current communicate generally with employees through the production Health and Safety and Engineered Management controls and is and distribution on a regular basis of printed and electronic not designed to replace tailor made training for a multitude of newspapers and bulletins for employees to promote awareness workplace hazards.
The whole principle behind its concept is of current progress and developments within the Group.
to heighten awareness to those hazards and maintain them in the mind whilst at work, in the home and when travelling.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to employment The success of the programme lies in its ability to allow applications from disabled persons.
"Where an employee becomes employees to understand its message and allow the ""self triggers"" disabled, arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue to bring safety to the fore."
The key to its success is involvement employment by identifying an available job suited to that persons and understanding at all levels of the organisation.
capabilities and providing any necessary retraining.
The Groups career development programme encourages disabled employees The concept of Safe Start revolves around four states of mind to reach their full potential.
contributing to critical errors: Throughout 2006, the Group Operations Executive Committee The Four States of Mind Cause or Contribute to One of More of reviewed the safety, quality and environmental performance against Rushing Eyes not on task the objectives set for 2006.
The primary concerns are to reduce Frustration Mind not on task accidents in the workplace and maintain high standards of environmental management in all of our activities.
Fatigue Line of fire Complacency Loss of balance, traction or grip In line with this philosophy, we pursue excellence through our global Health, Safety and Environmental Forums whose goal is to eliminate The training is given in five weekly one hour units and examines work-related injuries, prevent pollution, conserve resources, comply the critical errors, whilst also teaching techniques that will reduce with regulatory requirements and improve performance.
The training is rolled out in the same manner to all forums annually review our performance in these areas, collect data, employees, including the managing director and the office cleaner.
share best practice and plan for the coming year.
"In turn, these plans The strength of the programme lies in its simplicity and takes the are disseminated and included within individual business plans approach of making ""Common Sense Common Practice""."
This ensures consistency in performance The Weir Group is committed to an accident free health and measurement and improvement activities.
Forum members also safety environment based on the belief that all accidents are perform cross company safety audits to identify practices that are preventable.
The Group Operations Executive Committee drives working well and areas for improvement.
Concern reports are this commitment through operations globally.
The businesses used to track completion of corrective actions.
record all near misses and injuries within their operations and During 2006, the European HSE Group Forum has been working these are analysed on a continuous basis to reduce the number toward all our major European operations achieving OHSAS of lost time accidents through improvement of the 18001 accreditation and most companies anticipate completing working environment.
their gap analysis by the end of 2007 with a view to all sites achieving accreditation by the end of 2008.
OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health Safety Assessment Series was developed by the British Standards Institute as a health and safety management The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued The Groups policy on health and safety requires that all our Environment companies take a proactive responsible attitude to the protection of The Weir Group is committed to the protection of the their employees health and safety.
All companies carefully evaluate environment in which all its companies operate.
risks to personnel wherever they are working and take appropriate Each Weir company will comply with the relevant regulatory steps to minimise such risks.
These include ensuring that project requirements applicable to its business.
design engineers consider design factors that minimise or eliminate the risk of accidents to personnel during site installation and Each Weir company will ensure that it is seen to be a good commissioning.
All Group companies are required to comply with citizen in the community in which it operates and adopt the legislation governing health and safety at work and to conduct practices aimed at minimising the environmental impact regular formal health and safety reviews at plant and site level.
These reviews are undertaken by nominated managers and Maintenance of the Groups environmental policy is the employees to ensure that risks are properly evaluated, events responsibility of the Group Operations Executive Committee, leading to accidents are examined and appropriate remedial or while its implementation is the responsibility of divisional avoidance action initiated and subsequently monitored.
Each Weir division is required to report reporting procedures have been implemented so that the safety on environmental performance and maintain environmental performance of individual companies is monitored and peer-to-peer management practices.
audits are conducted in order to provide a critical assessment of each companys performance.
The Group policy is that all its operations will be ISO 14001 accredited.
ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised specification The increased focus in this important issue includes full for an effective structured environmental management system investigations of all accidents being carried out and reported which helps organisations achieve environmental and economic at the Group Operations Executive Committee meetings.
goals as well as assisting in the implementation of environmental The key measure of safety performance is the number of lost time policy.
An ISO 14001 accredited environmental management accidents LTAs.
The Weir Group adopts a more stringent lost system provides our customers, employees and shareholders with time measurement criterion than the industry norm of 3 days.
the assurance that our environmental performance meets and will The recorded LTAs use the Group definition of incidents resulting continue to meet our legal and environmental policy requirements.
in lost time of more than 4 hours.
Through the Group Health, Safety and Environmental Forums, all new businesses are brought into line with best practice and Lost Time Accidents assisted where the skills are not available in the implementation of ISO 14001.
In addition the Forums are a useful arena to allow 50 46 local and international environmental legislative developments to 39 be monitored before they become law.
This proactive approach 40 35 allows us to conform with future environmental legislation before laws are passed by voluntarily taking action on specific issues.
30 26 26 2005 24 As part of our integrated commitment to our ISO 14001 2006 20 accreditation, we have a rolling programme as part of our 100 day integration plan which we put in place in relation to any new 10 7 7 business unit.
In 2006, the integration plans at Weir Gabbioneta, 4 3 Weir China, Weir Services in Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi, India and 0 Malaysia, plus service centres in Grand Prairie, Saskatchewan and Minerals Clear Valves Services Defence, Liquid Nuclear Woolongong and the Minerals Rustenberg Service Centre all & Gas included action plans to gain compliance within a prescribed timescale.
Full compliance is targeted for early to mid 2007.
Note: The 2005 totals have been restated to include Weir Gabbioneta in the Clear Liquid figures and Saudi Arabia in the Services figure.
Environmental Performance The companies who have the highest numbers of accidents are The Group policy is to minimise its environmental impact and any audited by our insurers to ensure that the proper systems and environmental incidents are reported to the Group Operations processes are in place.
The reduction can also be attributed to Executive Committee on a monthly basis.
The definition of a improvements in education and training and adoption of Lean reportable incident: manufacturing principles.
In 2006, we started to focus not only Any incident which involves the accidental release, emission on accidents, but on near misses to further improve the safety or discharge of contaminants to air, water or land and requires culture that is being engendered across the Group.
outside resources to control or is required to be reported to a regulatory agency.
38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Lost Time Accidents n In both 2005 and 2006, the Group recorded one environmental Community incident.
The environmental incident which took place in 2006 During the year, Group companies were involved in numerous occurred in Saudi Arabia when effluent was discovered leaking from community, social and cultural initiatives.
Causes, events and drains at the rear of the main site.
A contractor was brought in to charities are often nominated and driven by our employees, repair and clean up, laying new drains to the septic tanks.
A new reflecting their own interests and social engagement.
We also drainage system and relocation of the septic tanks have now been participate in a range of educational and training initiatives, included in the site improvement plan.
including: As all our businesses have an objective of continuous improvement, Recently about 80 employees at our environmental initiatives focus on minimising waste generation, Weir Vulco Chile participated in preventing pollution and reducing energy consumption.
the construction of four houses for four underprivileged families located Initiatives during 2006 include: 120 miles west of Santiago.
Weir Strachan & Henshaw are launching a Cycle to Work Scheme Weir Minerals Australia has been involved for many years in in 2007, which will offer employees a long-term loan of a cycle sponsoring and participating in a Design and Construct Competition and related cycle equipment tax-free under a salary sacrifice for 2nd year Engineering Students throughout Australia and New scheme.
The scheme has been established with support from Zealand.
This is organised in conjunction with the Australian cyclescheme.
The employee should use the cycle for at least Institution of Engineers and is open to all universities in Australia 50% of their trips to work.
They are also allowed to use it for and New Zealand.
Each university conducts its own competition, leisure and holidays.
The aim of the scheme is to encourage with the winners gathered together for the national final in Sydney employees to cycle to work instead of using their car, thereby which is sponsored by the company 2006: A$32,000.
In addition promoting a healthy lifestyle and reducing pollution.
the company arranges: The Weir Minerals Australia foundry is a large consumer of a tour of the companys Artarmon factory by all 60 or so electricity and its Artarmon site undertook an energy consumption competing students and officials: study to identify mitigation methods of electricity consumption.
The study was conducted in 2006 and an energy efficiency and participation by staff as judges in the final event: and reduction plan was approved.
The main opportunities identified presentation of the awards at the function dinner.
for energy reduction or improved efficiency per ton of product produced, include the updating of furnaces and air compressors.
The 2006 Warman Student DesignDuring 2007, it is planned to replace this equipment and continue and-Build Competition National Final, with a rigorous preventative maintenance aimed to identify and was won by the team from the correct air leaks.
Other energy efficiency and reduction opportunities University of Auckland, sending the currently underway are related to reduction in the consumption of Warman Trophy and $1000 prize LPG by implementing the Weir Production System waste elimination money to New Zealand for the third principles in terms of reduction in the amount of fork-lift traffic.
The University of Adelaide team was given the Specifically, the project of relocating the pump assembly Judges Award for innovation.
This years specification, code named shop near the warehouse will significantly reduce internal Project ABC Autonomously Beautify Countryside, asked the transport needs.
students to design a device, in response to a fictional requirement for the planet Gondwana.
The objective was to design, build and Weir Services Australia, although a global company, are prove a prototype device in a laboratory environment that served recycling at a local level.
With two endangered species living to accurately and rapidly distribute wild flower seeds along the in their local area, the Red Crowned Toadlet and the Somersby planets highways.
Along the way, students not only learned Mintbush, Weir Services feel that they have more cause to recycle about engineering design but also project management, than most.
They have reviewed the waste that each department sustainability principles and team work and the results ranged creates and effectively found a way for reusing or recycling.
In from sophisticated mechatronic systems to devices crafted from their workshops they recycle and reuse rubber, plastic sheeting, such things as Lego, old farming machinery, skateboard wheels, broken pallets, mild steel, stainless steel, brass, white metal and car parts and rubber bands.
In the office they reuse both sides of the paper before recycling it along with printer cartridges and at the request of staff they are now recycling all plastic and glass bottles, cardboard, steel and aluminium cans.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued The Social Responsibility Committee at Weir Minerals Africa predominantly employed at the site, into the local community was involved in various company and community projects to and was supported by the staff.
In addition the company provided uplift previously disadvantaged communities.
Project acceptance match sponsorship for a friendly international Poland v England is based on the contribution to the improvement of quality of life.
football match held in the town.
In 2006, the company assisted with the following donations For the year ahead, it is planned that the site will be the principal and sponsorships: location for a local two day event titled Made in Todmorden which will involve community outreach to show the local Purchased its cleaning materials from Tembisa Self Help community the activities carried out on site, the products and Association for the Disabled, who make such items on their people, to aid a demystification of the business and promote a premises, thus providing employment to some disabled residents.
closer affinity between the larger local community and the site.
A donation of R25,000 to Tembisa Child and Family Welfare for use in providing for the children in their care.
An additional R25,000 was also donated towards the cost of a replacement bus.
Marketplace We recognise that our corporate social responsibility also reflects A donation of R25,000 to Tembisa Self Help Association for the the way we behave towards our suppliers.
The Group does Disabled as well as providing financial support to their Casual not operate a standard policy in respect of payments to suppliers Day sticker campaign.
and each operating company is responsible for agreeing the terms Financial assistance was given to employees children to and conditions under which business transactions are conducted, cover some of the costs of schooling and tertiary studies.
including the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 29 Subscribing to the East Rand Industrialists Network who December 2006, the Group had an average of 61 days purchases are involved in the upliftment and maintenance of the outstanding in trade creditors.
Many Weir companies are collaborating closely with suppliers R5,000 was donated to the University of the North West to to address environmental considerations throughout the supply sponsor some orphaned children to attend a sports camp.
chain, particularly in areas such as raw materials, packaging and Weir Minerals Europes strategy is to work towards becoming recycling, to our mutual benefit.
This increasing pro-active approach is reflected through the companys approach to both environmental impact minimisation and social stewardship.
In 2006, the Research & development Todmorden site set aggressive targets to reduce the volume of Research and development has a vital role to play in meeting our waste to landfill and to improve recycling with sand and slag corporate social responsibilities.
The development of new products waste to landfill being reduced by 31%.
Plans for 2007 include that are more environmentally benign in both manufacture and the installation of a chromite separation plant, which should operation and the substitution of harmful materials, offer competitive enable the company to improve its reuse of chromite sand by advantage to ourselves and to our customers.
General waste to landfill was reduced by 24% through We recognise that many of our products are themselves contributors improvements in internal waste streaming.
The site also to environmental protection in critical areas such as power demonstrated substantial improvements in recycling, increasing generation, nuclear handling and subsea oil and gas exploration.
wood and cardboard recycled by 73%.
This was achieved We are therefore investing in research and development to primarily through the combining of wood and cardboard waste, continuously improve their performance.
to simplify the waste streams and reduce inclusion in general waste to landfill.
Metal scrap recycled improved by 20% despite 2007 will see ongoing investment in design, research and the outsourcing of metal fabrications in mid 2006, although this development, in which our corporate social responsibility and should be viewed against volume increases through the machine business objectives are closely aligned.
shop during 2006 generating increased levels of swarf waste.
The business also actively supports local events and charities, which during 2006 included charitable donations totalling 2,000 specifically targeted at the local community through a diverse range of organisations including schools, the arts, the fire brigade and young peoples clubs.
Financial sponsorship was also provided for the organisation of a Polish cultural event aimed at encouraging understanding and integration of Polish workers, 40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 The Weir Group PLC Financial Statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2006 Group Financial Statements 42 Directors Statement of Responsibilities 43 Independent Auditors Report 44 Consolidated Income Statement 45 Consolidated Balance Sheet 46 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 47 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income & Expense 48 Notes to the Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements 86 Directors Statement of Responsibilities 87 Independent Auditors Report 88 Company Balance Sheet 89 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 97 Principal Companies of the Group 98 Shareholder Information Inside back cover - Financial Calendar The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 41
