com 37 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility CR is an integral part of the way AWG does business.
Through its CR standards, AWG reinforces the importance of making decisions based on social and environmental considerations, as well as economic ones.
Corporate responsibility standards What corporate responsibility means to AWG AWG believes corporate responsibility is about supporting and actively encouraging strategies and behaviours that Safety Nothing that we do in AWG is so important that demonstrate its commitment to the long-term viability of we cannot find the time to do it safely.
This reinforces the belief that good business We recognise that good safety performance, decisions take into account social and environmental and the safety of everyone who works for us or issues, as well as economic ones.
is affected by our work, are critical to the success of our business.
Our goal is for no accidents and no harm to people and we are committed to the AWG recognises that it must behave responsibly when achievement of that goal.
making decisions, both as individuals and collectively as a group.
People Employees will be treated in a manner that respects them as individuals, develops their potential in the At AWG corporate responsibility is not about taking context of the business, encourages them to play specific actions to tick boxes, but making sure that it a part in AWGs development and enables them to share in AWGs success.
manages the key elements of its day-to-day business and long-term planning in ways that are sustainable.
Applying Community We will show sensitivity to the values and concerns the Corporate Responsibility Standards helps identify the of communities in which we do business and we risks and the opportunities that responsible management aim to enhance community wellbeing, principally brings.
through contributions of time and expertise.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees the Environment We believe that natural resources should be used Standards.
The Committee is chaired by Robert Napier, an sustainably and we will adopt working practices that help achieve that goal.
Anglian Water Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive of the Worldwide Fund for Nature.
The Committee helps, Risk We will recognise and manage risk in all aspects encourages and challenges management in planning and of our business.
communicating environmental, reputational and social issues that are expected to impact on AWG.
Integrity We will demonstrate integrity and honesty in the way we conduct business.
Accountability We will account for our actions in a way that meets all that might justifiably be expected of us.
For more information about how the AWG Corporate Responsibility Standards are applied to our businesses and how AWG meets them, please visit www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 38 Corporate responsibility continued Education Anglian Water has created a house made out of 1,000 half-litre bottles to represent the amount of water an average family of four uses every day.
The house, which is permanently located at Grafham Water in Cambridgeshire, is popular with children and adults alike.
com 39 Anglian Water encourages its customers to play their part in conserving water.
A regional advertising campaign, which began in May 2006, demonstrated some simple ways to save water.
All areas of corporate responsibility are important to AWG.
However, due to the diverse nature of the businesses, each has focused on the issues that are of particular relevance.
Examples of some of these areas include: Climate change AWG recognises that decisions made now in relation to climate change will affect its ability to deliver services in the future.
The Anglian Water region is potentially the most at risk in the UK from climate change impacts such as raised sea levels and hotter, drier summers.
In April 2005 AWG held a climate change workshop for senior Anglian Water managers, looking at possible scenarios, how to mitigate current impacts and how to adapt to environmental changes.
As a result, Anglian Water developed its Climate Change Action Plan that takes it into and beyond the next regulatory period, 2010 to 2015.
Anglian Water has already set demanding targets for reducing energy, wastes, transport and chemical use and reducing its greenhouse gas emissions.
More information on the implications of climate change for Anglian Water is detailed on page 20 of this report.
For more information on AWGs climate change work, see the Anglian Water Environment Report 2006 see the inside cover of this report for details of how to obtain a copy and the AWG website: www.
Within Morrison, Facilities Services is contributing toward emissions reduction through its Decent Homes contracts, by meeting clients needs in the installation of condensing boilers, insulation and replacement windows.
These actions bring lower emissions and reduced bills for tenants.
Examples of the advertising campaign, featuring Bill Oddie, which were used on buses and in radio advertisements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review 40 Corporate responsibility continued Biodiversity The magazine focus also gives information about Anglian The natural environment and biodiversity are high Waters concerns about energy use, how to avoid sewer priorities for Anglian Water.
Anglian Water continues blockages, why water conservation is so important and to perform strongly against the regulatory standards water saving advice.
Through focus, Anglian Water is for water quality.
actively seeking views and comments on these issues.
There are more Sites of Special Scientific Interest SSSIs Communities in developing countries have been supported in the Anglian Water region than in any other part of the for many years by the groups active involvement with country, which means that Anglian Waters operations, WaterAid.
This year a total of 106,000 has been such as pipe laying, abstraction and discharges are donated: this is made up of money contributed directly managed to ensure these sites are not affected by its by Anglian Water and money raised by employees.
Anglian Water manages 51 sites located on The total amount raised in 2005 6, including that raised SSSIs across the region, 96 per cent of which are in by customers, is 181,000. recovering or favourable condition.
As a large employer keen to ensure a well-trained work A particular success for biodiversity has been the force into the future, Morrison Utility Services has reintroduction of the pool frog into East Anglia after undertaken an extensive training programme for 270 a 13-year absence.
This was achieved by Anglian Water, operatives, who have attained NVQs in gas network working together with English Nature and others.
operations and water mains laying.
The company has also recruited and trained, through Job Centres Plus, 200 Community engagement meter installers, usually from the long-term unemployed.
AWG aims to protect and enhance its reputation with Its Young Offenders Programme with National Grid customers and the communities in which they live.
Transco is now in its ninth programme.
Thirty-two trainees have been trained to date and in 2005 6 Anglian AWG seeks the views of its customers and communities Water also recruited two young offenders.
Morrison through continuous surveying and consultation.
A new believes that these initiatives bring long-term benefits to initiative this year is focus, a magazine that Anglian Water the individuals, their communities and AWG.
It contains information about Anglian Waters activities such as the give me five employee Morrison Facilities Services recognises that with its social volunteering scheme, the recreation and sports facilities housing contracts it has a responsibility to interact with provided and information about the biodiversity and the communities in which it operates.
It has a network of habitat enhancement work it does.
Resident Liaison Managers who work directly with tenants and residents on practical and community issues.
Staff engagement AWG believes that employees should be respected, enabled to achieve their potential and to play a part in AWGs development.
com 41 Corporate responsibility highlights 2005 6 Review of corporate responsibility in AWG.
96 per cent of sites within SSSIs in Recovering or Favourable condition.
Corporate responsibility embedded in Anglian Waters five-year business plan.
Winner of the RoSPA Construction Sector Award Morrison Utility Services.
Improved health and safety performance across the business with AFR decreased from 0.42 to 0.39 in Anglian Water 181,000 donated to WaterAid by Anglian Water, its employees and to 0.30 from a target of 0.38 in Morrison.
Purchase of renewable energy increased to 21.4 per cent.
1 million donated to the Anglian Water Trust Fund.
Self generated energy from wastes risen by 50 per cent.
For more information about corporate responsibility in AWG and its performance, please visit the website: www.
At Anglian Water people processes, including performance, development and rewards, are driven by the personal development review process which considers an individuals performance against objectives, as well as skills and behaviours.
It allows individuals to be valued for their talents, performance and achievements in a fair and consistent way.
This year Anglian Water has concluded consultation with all employees and has agreed a four-year plan for pay and pensions.
This approach gives certainty to both company and employees and establishes a sustainable cost base for the future.
Safety Anglian Water has one of the lower Accident Frequency Rates AFR in the industry and has improved its year-onyear safety performance since 2003.
Morrison has a nationally recognised safety culture and has continued to improve its safety performance.
Morrison Utility Services has become the first utility services business in the UK to devise and implement a bespoke Institution of Occupational Safety and Health IOSHaccredited training course for the utility sector.
It has also won the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Construction Sector Award for the second year running.
The future AWG is considering ways in which it can improve its dialogue with stakeholders.
Anglian Water has an extensive communications plan underway, including educational and health-related programmes.
AWG will also continue its work to understand and prepare for the challenge of climate change.
Ultimately, the aim is that corporate responsibility becomes part of business as usual.
