Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility highlights 2006 The year saw William Hill further enhance its procedures on core issues, including responsible gambling and staff training and development, whilst building on the corporate responsibility foundations established over recent years in other areas.
2006 highlights include: The findings of an independent report by Responsible Gambling Solutions that the standard of socially responsible practice in the Groups Remote business is very good: Continuing liaison with the Gambling Commission and DCMS to establish proportionate regulation for the gambling industry in line with the three licensing objectives under the Gambling Act: The review and enhancement of age verification procedures in the Interactive business to prevent gambling by under 18s: The introduction of a Competition Beating Service initiative throughout the retail estate to provide customers with a consistently positive in-shop experience: The extension of the performance management scheme initially launched for senior management to the next tier of management: and Enhanced communication with our employees including the implementation of a revised staff council structure, the publishing of a new bi-monthly staff magazine and the testing of a new forum for capturing staff ideas.
William Hill takes its responsibilities to its Provision of a safe and healthy human resources data and charitable workplace in accordance with giving: stakeholders seriously and implements relevant legislation: policies and procedures that seek to A review of external contact and balance the legitimate expectations of Providing appropriate levels of queries on CR issues: and shareholders, staff and customers and the customer service: and CR Action Plans.
Protecting customer privacy and the The Committee has also considered the Risk management proper handing and use of data following matters during the period: The Board uses the risk management within the Group.
processes referred to on page 29 to The Groups compliance with existing Leadership and management identify the risks arising from Corporate industry codes of practice on framework Responsibility CR matters.
Its focus is on responsible gambling: A non executive director, David Edmonds, the following material issues: The appropriateness of the Groups chairs the CR Committee and its other corporate policies and the adoption Compliance with future and existing members are the Group Chairman and laws, regulations and codes of of a Disability Policy: and the Group Chief Executive.
This conduct relating to responsible Committee monitors a range of CR issues.
The results of an independent audit gambling: underage gambling and There are at least four meetings a year.
by Responsible Gambling Solutions protection of the vulnerable: Each meeting considers a number of Limited on the Groups social prevention of crime and disorder standing items as follows: responsibility procedures in the related to gambling: and product Remote business Interactive, integrity issues: The Groups CR performance by Telephone and WAP betting.
monitoring a number of key The ongoing training, development performance indicators KPIs in and motivation of employees to various areas including responsible retain the widest possible range of gambling, customer service issues, talented staff: 33 In addition there have been presentations contains copies of the Groups policies in Remote Gambling Association RGA has on: the CR area.
The Groups Code of Business also introduced a social responsibility Conduct available on the Groups code, which the Group was actively Responsible gambling and the website, covers the basic principles the involved in developing.
The social prevention of underage gambling: Board expects to be complied with across responsibility codes deal with issues The Groups approach to disabled the Group in a variety of areas, including relating to responsible and underage customers and staff and compliance bribery, corruption and fraud.
gambling and cover such areas as with the Disability Discrimination Act advertising and promotion, age The Group is delighted to be part of the including consideration of relevant verification, staff training, customer FTSE4 Good Index Series.
changes: and communication and support for social The Group has an active dialogue with impact initiatives.
William Hill is a member The operations of the Groups various stakeholder groups.
During 2007 of the RGAs social responsibility Customer Services function.
the Group will consider potential committee.
The Committee reports regularly to the opportunities for improved shareholder In November 2006 the Group participated Board and all Board members ensured dialogue and electronic communication in the RGAs Responsible Gambling that through a process of presentation presented by the Companies Act 2006.
Awareness Day, an initiative also and discussion with staff that they have supported by problem gambling charities been properly briefed and have gained an GamCare and Gordon House Association appropriate understanding of the CR Gambling Act along with the Responsibility in Gambling issues affecting the Group.
The Gambling Act, which is Trust.
The purpose of the day was to expected to come into force on David Harding, the Groups Chief highlight the efforts made by responsible 1 September 2007, has the Executive, is the executive director with gambling operators to provide their responsibility for overseeing William Hills following licensing objectives: customers with information and tools to CR activities.
The Chief Executive and make informed choices and gamble Preventing gambling from Board Committee are assisted by the CR responsibly without harm to themselves being a source of crime or Working Group, which also met on four or to their families.
There was widespread disorder, being associated occasions during 2006. broadcast coverage of the day and the with crime or disorder, or Group was encouraged by the informed The CR Working Group comprises the being used to support crime: debate generated.
Chief Executive and Company Secretary together with functional heads for Ensuring that gambling is The Group operates voluntary selfcorporate strategy and development, conducted in a fair and open exclusion procedures for problem human resources, property, security and way: and gamblers in both in its Retail estate and customer service departments together Remote channels.
In addition existing age Protecting children and other with representatives from the Retail and verification procedures in the Groups Remote businesses.
An action plan vulnerable persons from online business were further enhanced detailing work carried out since 2004, being harmed or exploited by with the aim of preventing gambling by which has been revised and updated on gambling.
Customer service and call an ongoing basis since this time has been centre staff receive appropriate training to William Hill is committed to considered by each of the meetings in deal with customers who may wish to providing practical assistance to 2006, together with progress on self-exclude.
GamCare have provided outstanding actions.
The Working Group the Commission in its attempts to assistance by reviewing the Groups reviews papers prior to submission to the put in place risk-based and internal training materials for both the CR Committee and acts as a forum for proportionate regulation in the Retail and Interactive businesses.
operational management to discuss CR light of the licensing objectives.
Compliance reviews of Remote betting issues.
Reports are provided by working self-exclusion procedures have taken group members on CR activities in their place during 2006.
Refresher training for Codes of conduct areas of responsibility.
some staff has also been carried out.
The Group supports the Gambling Acts Communication William Hill has worked with the RGA to licensing objectives and has worked with The Group has sought to increase develop an appropriate code regarding relevant trade associations to adopt communication, both internally and fairness testing of games, which use a appropriate codes of practice and to externally, on the Groups activities in the random number generator.
The RGA exchange best practice in this area.
Since area of corporate responsibility.
This has proposals have been submitted in the Association of British Bookmakers been achieved over recent years by response to a Gambling Commission ABB development of social responsibility increasing the level of disclosure via the consultation in this area and we await the and good practice codes for LBOs and a annual report and accounts and making Commissions proposals with interest.
code of practice governing the supply additional information available on the and use of fixed-odds betting terminals in Groups website at LBOs, the Group has had a rigorous www.
co. uk regarding implementation and training programme activities in the CR area.
The website in place to facilitate compliance.
The 34 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Gambling Commission preparation for the implementation of the measures are in place to reduce the effect Gambling Act.
of smoking in the LBOs: The Gambling Commission has been established as the new central regulatory There are currently air cleaners in The ABB, of which the Group is a member, body for gambling and the Group is over 80% of the Groups total estate: has a memorandum of understanding in participating in liaison meetings with this place with the Horseracing Regulatory No smoking areas are provided in a body both directly, via the ABB and RGA Authority relating to the sharing of number of non-Scottish LBOs where and along with other members of the information when either criminal offences the layout allows: and industry.
During 2006, both the or the integrity of racing is suspected.
A Commission and the DCMS published Staff are not permitted to smoke similar document is in place with the numerous draft codes of practice, licence behind the counter and customers Football Association and the Association are discouraged from smoking at the conditions and standards relating to of Tennis Professionals.
The ABB also has counter by the display of No gambling issues for consultation with arrangements agreed with greyhound Smoking signs in this area.
stakeholders and the Group was heavily racing, snooker, cricket and rugby league involved in the formulation of responses and its practice is to inform the relevant In addition the Groups administration to these consultations via the ABB and governing body of the sport whenever buildings nationwide operate a no RGA.
The Group has established a matters concerning integrity arise.
dedicated team and specific work streams The Group co-operates with the ABB on A copy of the Groups smoking policy is to deal with issues arising from the integrity issues.
The Security Department available at www.
implementation of the new regulations.
maintains close relationships with relevant The Commissions complete requirements law enforcement agencies and the Customers and communities in respect of social responsibility are still provision of information is strictly Customer service to be finalised.
However, the Group controlled by the Head of Security to recognises that preparation for and A commitment to high standards of ensure compliance with the Data implementation of the Gambling Act is a customer service and to the fair and open Protection Act.
major project: detailed planning and conduct of its gambling operations is key The Groups Security Department specific work-stream meetings to William Hill.
The Groups continued undertakes an ongoing risk assessment commenced during 2006. success depends on its customers.
process for all LBOs, considering their Dedicated customer service departments Crime and disorder potential vulnerability to robberies and are in place for both the Retail and the The Groups current operations are violence in the workplace incidents.
Remote channels and these handle licensed under relevant legislation and the Appropriate crime prevention measures enquiries on a large range of issues.
Group is committed to compliance with are introduced to meet the perceived risk.
During 2006 the customer service regulation and to keeping gambling crime Such measures include the fitting of functions for Telephone and Interactive free.
The Group has a money laundering security screens in vulnerable shops, operations were integrated, giving reporting officer, the Groups Head of installation of improved digital closed Remote channel customers one point of Security, who is responsible for ensuring circuit television CCTV systems and contact for expert, consistent help and that the Group complies with relevant fitting of electronic and magnetic door advice on all queries.
legislation in the area of money locks to staff areas.
In the event of an Service complaints are considered laundering and proceeds of crime, and incident occurring, affected shops are seriously and consistent, monitored that appropriate training is provided to reassessed by the Security Department procedures are in place across the Group.
and steps taken to minimise further risk, The Group undertakes regular customer where appropriate.
The Group has An HM Treasury consultation on the satisfaction surveys and during the period, established a close liaison with a number implementation of the Third Money amongst customer opinions sought were of local authority environmental health Laundering Directive closed during those on the design of the Group LBOs departments and crime prevention offices.
October 2006 and the Group responded and the usability and attractiveness of the via the RGA.
The Directive will be Smoking online websites.
2007 will see the results implemented by December 2007 and any The Group is compliant with the smoking of a late 2006 survey on customer UK based internet or land-based casino bans in place in the Republic of Ireland perceptions of the Retail business and a will be subject to its terms.
A further and introduced in Scotland in March 2006 new survey of telephone betting consultation is now underway on the and Jersey at the year-end.
draft Money Laundering Regulations plans to draw on the experience of its During 2006 the Retail business 2007.
Comments will again be provided successful Scottish staff training exercise introduced its Competition Beating via the RGA.
The Gambling Commission and effective practical introduction of the Service CBS initiative, the aim of which is has also issued code provisions on money Scottish smoking ban, as it implements to ensure a positive in-shop experience laundering and proceeds of crime the total bans on smoking in public places for customers.
CBS has quickly been reporting for casino and betting coming into force in the rest of the UK established as an essential element of the operators.
The codes closely reflect the during 2007. retail business and the Group believes Groups existing practices but further staff Currently, the Group has a formal Groupthat it will play a vital part in the business training in this area will take place during wide smoking policy.
District operations 2007 as part of the Groups overall 35 managers review performance against internally.
The Gambling Commissions actioned after a minimum 24 hour CBS standards on a monthly basis and consultation paper on Remote Technical cooling off period: and agree action plans to tackle any issues.
Standards Fair and Open Play, has The availability of gambling charity For an external viewpoint on the levels of recently been published and the Group literature from all shops with links to customer service experienced in LBOs, will be working with the RGA to develop a gambling charities available from the the Group uses a mystery shopper full response to the consultation exercise.
programme provided by Retail Eyes, an Privacy In the Retail business, once a customer international company specialising in The Group has systems in place to protect has taken a decision to proceed with selfcustomer service.
the privacy of information provided by exclusion, they sign a written agreement Comprehensive betting rules, which detail customers.
William Hill complies with the which explains the effect of the selfthe terms and conditions under which all Data Protection Act 1998 and the Data exclusion, namely that the customer will transactions placed with William Hill are Protection Principles set out in that Act in be refused service in that LBO and at accepted, are available to customers.
The the collection and processing of personal other nominated William Hill premises in Group endeavours to resolve all betting information.
Quarterly review meetings the locality for a minimum period of six disputes in a fair, consistent and equitable are undertaken with relevant individuals months.
In a retail environment, even if manner.
However, if these are unable to nominated by heads of department to the customer provides a photograph, it is be resolved to the customers satisfaction review practices in this area, during which not possible for the Group to guarantee the customer is entitled to refer the any issues are discussed and staff training that an individual will not be allowed to matter to the Independent Betting needs reviewed.
A copy of the Groups place a bet in LBOs on a country-wide Arbitration Service IBAS.
William Hill has privacy policy is available at basis.
agreed to abide by any ruling they make.
com Online, self-exclusion works by closing Responsible and underage gambling existing accounts and preventing the Of 274 disputes referred to IBAS in opening of new accounts using the same William Hill encourages a socially 2006 2005178, IBAS found 2% e-mail address or payment details.
responsible attitude within the betting in favour of the customer 2005 and gaming industry and within its own 4.5% and the Group conceded William Hills self-exclusion procedures organisation and is committed to the have gained GamCare certification and another 11% before IBAS ruled Governments stated objective of standards are maintained via an ongoing 2005 4.5%.
protecting children and the vulnerable staff training programme and regular from being harmed or exploited by management checks.
An independent From September 2007 gambling gambling.
The Group has been actively assessment of self-exclusion and other transactions will be legally enforceable involved through relevant trade social responsibility procedures forms part contracts and subject to relevant associations in developing industry-wide of the Retail Eyes mystery shopper consumer contract legislation.
codes in the area of social responsibility programme.
Additionally, the Group anticipate that and is committed to listening to the views some customers may contact the of relevant stakeholder groups.
During 2006 the following Gambling Commission in respect of number of customers chose to The Group has an ongoing dialogue with disputes.
During 2007 a thorough review GamCare, a charity involved in providing self-exclude from the Groups of the Groups terms and conditions will information, advice and practical help take place.
It is hoped that the majority of services: regarding the impact of gambling, and is disputes will continue to be adjudicated Retail 401 2005 285 also a major contributor to the on by IBAS, the acknowledged industry Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
Remote 1,010 2005 693 Group is committed to implementing Product integrity appropriate procedures within the In July 2006 the Group commissioned a William Hill has a number of products organisation to deal with both responsible report by Responsible Gambling Solutions where the outcome of an event is and underage gambling.
into the remote channels social determined by a random number responsibility procedures.
An extensive The Group endeavours to provide generator RNG.
RNGs are administered cross-check was undertaken against the customers with the tools by which they either by external third parties or by the RGAs Social Responsibility and Age can chose to control their gambling Group itself.
The Group has introduced Verification Codes of Practice, the behaviour.
Amongst such tools are: rigorous procedures to ensure that the Gambling Commissions Licence randomness of its own RNGs is certified, The ability to self-exclude from the Conditions and Codes of Practice game outcomes are fair and payouts Groups retail and remote services for consultation document and the DCMS correct, games are free from defects and a minimum period of six months: Advertising by Remote Gambling function to specifications and that the A deposit limit by which Interactive Operators paper.
Overall, the Groups games are secure and do not compromise customers are able to limit the standard of socially responsible practice either the player or William Hill.
The Group amount of money they are able to was found to be very good.
continues to work with suppliers with the deposit into their account in any 24 Recommendations still outstanding will objective of ensuring they adopt the high hour period and where requests for a be further considered in the light of the level of fairness testing conducted deposit limit increase will only be 36 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Gambling Commissions final services offered in the LBOs can be Staff are provided with information and requirements in respect of social accessed on the internet or via the training on health and safety issues as responsibility.
Details of all of these services part of their induction and on an ongoing can be obtained from the William Hill basis.
Risk assessments are undertaken Signs prohibiting under 18s from entering Customer Helpline.
and the Group monitors the application the Groups retail premises or placing bets and understanding of safety instructions are on clear display in all LBOs and the The Group is currently developing a new through a system of safety audits, Health procedures by which staff ask for proof of platform for its online services.
Care is and Safety Co-ordinators and the Health age from individuals suspected to be being taken to ensure that the final and Safety Committee.
During 2006 under 18 are clearly established, forming a application reaches single A compliance revised versions of the Groups Health and core part of existing training and status with the Disability Discrimination Safety manuals were prepared for the re-enforcement programmes.
LBOs, the administration offices and the The Group uses a best practice age Employees greyhound stadia.
There was particular verification solution with its online emphasis on the procedures to be taken The Groups success is dependent on its customers and seeks to age verify all for lone working outside standard hours employees and it is committed to high online customers who use debit cards, by technical staff and fire risk assessments standards of employment practice.
The which may be issued to those under 18. were reviewed in the light of new fire Group rewards individuals fairly and is Procedures in this area were further regulations.
committed to providing equality of enhanced during the year.
opportunity, training and development Equal opportunities and a safe workplace.
There has been dialogue with banks via The Group is committed to equal relevant trade associations to establish if Policies opportunities in the workplace in terms of financial institutions can provide selection, promotion, training and A comprehensive set of human resources additional information for age verification.
Relevant policies are policies are in place including documents No progress has yet been made.
William communicated to Group employees and covering health and safety including Hill continues to monitor best practice as there are clear lines of responsibility specific policies on stress management it develops and to review its policies and regarding monitoring their effectiveness, and smoking, equal opportunities and procedures on a regular basis.
implementation and communication to harassment, disability, flexible working, staff.
training and development, the acceptance The Group awaits publication of the final of gifts and hospitality, and whistle Gambling Commission social The Groups current workforce is blowing.
These are communicated to responsibility codes and conditions.
59% female 2005 58% and employees as appropriate.
The Group has Although the Licence Conditions and an approved Code of Business Conduct 41% male 2005 42%.
Code of Practice document has been and during 2006 approved a Violence in published and includes particular the Workplace Policy.
Copies of the requirements on self-exclusion and age Training and development Groups policies and procedures in the verification, many details remain to be William Hill is committed to investing in above areas are available at completed and certain social the training and development of all its www.
responsibility standards for the Remote employees.
The Group provides initial business will not be finalised until June William Hill is committed to undertaking induction training at the commencement 2007. its operations in a way, which respects of employment including training on individuals human rights and treats The Group has wording on its customer responsible and underage gambling individuals with dignity and respect.
communications regarding responsible supported, where necessary, by specific gambling e. g. shop door poster, skills training relevant to their job.
Further Health and safety promotional material, customer training and development is provided to A copy of the Groups health and safety statements and other correspondence individuals throughout their career to policy is available at with customers.
enable employees to maintain and www.
A Health and improve standards of performance, deal A copy of the Groups responsible Safety Committee meets regularly to effectively with any changes to the work gambling policy is available at review compliance with applicable health environment and to develop their abilities www.
and safety legislation and regulation, to and realise their full potential.
keep up to date with best practice and to Access to services review and maintain compliance with Selection for further training and health and safety procedures.
The development is based on individual Customers with disabilities have a right of Committee includes senior managers needs, ability and the needs of the access to the Groups services.
Accessibility from the Groups human resources, business.
Training is provided either issues are taken into account in security, property and Company internally or externally as appropriate and accordance with appropriate codes of secretarial departments, together with the Group has a dedicated team of practice when opening and refitting the representatives of operational employees providing training and Groups LBOs, and a combination of management.
An external health and development within the Group and ramps, stair lifts, disabled toilets and safety consultant advises the Committee.
facilitating training by District Training induction loops for the hard of hearing Co-ordinators.
During 2006 the Retail are fitted, where appropriate.
In addition, 37 business implemented its Competition magazine invites staff feedback and is communicating openly and honestly with Beating Service initiative see Customer designed to appeal to a broad readership staff about resulting organisational Service on page 35.
Over a period of four base.
A new staff council system was changes, with regular updates and months a team of 16 trainers ran courses introduced in the Retail business to give a personalised communication.
for 8,000 betting shop staff around the voice to all staff, the particular features are The final quarter of 2006 saw a relocation UK.
Staff in each shop are now equipped as follows: of the Groups Leeds-based administrative to self-check performance against the New area staff councils, chaired by offices to other premises in Leeds.
The three core CBS standards of friendly the area operations manager, meet phased moves involved almost 700 staff, service, famous expertise and great insix times per year and comprise one their equipment and infrastructure with shop experience.
As part of the Business cleaner or one customer service no detrimental effect on the business.
In Continuity Planning testing programme, assistant and one shop manager or view of the many changes ongoing in the the Group also continued with a series of deputy manager per district: business, the Group has established a the business continuity workshops, which Change Board, chaired by the Group HR Regional staff councils, chaired by involved staff dealing with, and reacting director and attended by senior the regional operations controller, to, a theoretical business crisis.
One meet three times per year and The Group also has in place a comprise one customer service of the major tasks of the Change Board Management Development Policy assistant or cleaner and one shop will be to ensure that all staff manager or deputy manager per focussed on identifying those individuals communication is appropriate with area and in attendance the regional within the organisation that demonstrate employees receiving the information they HR manager, one area operations both the ability to operate at a more require in the right form at the right time.
manager and one district operations senior level and the personal drive and Sharesave manager: and enthusiasm to develop themselves.
On an annual basis since the Groups Specific programmes are in place covering A national staff council, chaired by flotation in 2002, employees with development for supervisory junior the Retail Operations Director, meets minimum service of one year have been management, middle management, three times per year and includes able to participate in the William Hill senior management and senior one customer service assistant or Sharesave scheme.
cleaner, one deputy manager and employees, nearly 20% of all eligible one shop manager per region 12 During 2006 the Group extended the staff employees, have joined the schemes for a representatives in total, the Group covered by its formal performance period of 3, 5 or 7 years.
HR director, the Head of Retail HR management process and continued its along with an operations controller, The 2006 scheme attracted 1,600 staff efforts to embed the process, running an area operations manager and a savers, many of whom were taking out a further practical training workshops for district operations manager.
second or third savings contract, and 35% those involved and producing specifically of whom were former Stanley employees.
All staff council representatives receive tailored booklets.
A substantial training specialist training and are allowed six investment to ensure consistency and consultation days a year to talk to the effectiveness will continue throughout Supporting sports-related people they represent and to prepare for 2007. and other bodies meetings.
There is also a staff council in William Hill is committed to being a place for the major administrative centre.
The average length of service responsible corporate citizen and across the Group is 6 years whilst A proposal for a Group-wide Ideas into recognises its wider social responsibility LBO managers average length of Action initiative is being tested in the by seeking to support the communities in service is 12 years and 9 months north region of the Retail estate.
Ideas for which the Group operates through improving the business can be sent to a charitable donations and other relevant central point by staff who can be assured payments.
Internal communication that their ideas will be considered by the Levies The Group places considerable value on appropriate management, with awards The Group supports horse racing via the the involvement of its employees and is being given for the best ones.
statutory levy and greyhound racing via committed to providing effective Integration of the Stanley retail chain, the voluntary donation to the British communication on matters which may acquired by the Group in June 2005, into Greyhound Racing Fund BGRF.
The sums affect staff, and more generally, on the the business was completed in April 2006. payable for 2006 were 26.7m and 4.0m development and performance of the A major integration project including respectively.
These funds are used by the Group.
The recommendations of a 2005 internal and external shop re-branding, respective bodies for a wide variety of review of internal communication new staff uniforms, the introduction of the purposes including animal welfare issues.
conducted by the senior management full range of William Hill bets into the exdevelopment group were implemented A budget has been independently Stanley shops, the alignment of IT systems during 2006.
The existing Group magazine established for the greyhound stadia to and a move from weekly to monthly pay was replaced by a new style publication, be used to assist with greyhound welfare for ex-Stanley staff was successfully Will2Win, which has been circulated to all issues.
The Group funds an establishment completed.
Throughout the project, the employees on a bi-monthly basis which will enable up to 25 dogs to be Group placed particular emphasis on throughout the period.
The new 38 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 housed for up to three months with the was paid to the Responsibility in Directive which is being introduced intention of permanently re-homing Gambling Trust.
Since its opening at the end of Air-conditioning and fascia lighting The Group has established a Charitable 2005, 67 greyhounds have been are controlled by time clocks to Donations Committee, which reviews, on successfully re-homed by this facility and ensure efficient use of energy: a quarterly basis, requests for charitable the benefits of retired greyhounds as pets donations against the Boards agreed Electrostatic air cleaners are installed are actively promoted at the stadia.
in over 80% of the Groups LBOs: The Group recognised the depth of public William Hill does not make donations to New style fascias continue to be concern surrounding press coverage political parties.
rolled out as LBOs are upgraded regarding the fate of greyhounds no which will reduce electricity longer required for racing.
Every trainer Environment consumption: affiliated to a William Hill track is required A copy of the Groups environmental More energy efficient inverter air to complete a weekly return listing dogs policy is available at conditioning units are being installed available for racing, injured dogs and www.
It is recognised on new projects and when those dogs who have left the trainers that all business activities have a direct replacements are required: and kennels.
Trainers must provide full details and indirect impact on the environment of any individual to whom care of a dog Water management systems for toilet and William Hill strives to act in an has been passed.
facilities continue to be rolled out to environmentally responsible manner.
reduce water consumption and an Charitable donations increasing proportion of the LBO Policy The Groups charitable donations are estate is fitted with water meters.
As a retail and service organisation, the mainly focussed on organisations involved Groups main impact on the environment Facilities for recycling paper and toner in areas of greatest relevance to the is through the buildings William Hill cartridges are in place at the Groups head business.
The Board has adopted a operates and the resources used by staff office and regional office buildings.
The charitable donations policy stating that in their day-to-day work.
The Groups Group has been unable to establish an the major focus of the Groups efforts will environmental practices reflect William energy and cost efficient method of be in supporting bodies involved in: Hills business operations, and its main recycling from its retail establishments.
Promoting a responsible approach to risks and interactions with the Potential solutions will be considered gambling: undertaking research into environment, and are largely focussed on: further during 2007 and the Group is keen problem gambling: and providing to be able to progress in this area.
Compliance with environmental laws information, advice and help to those who are at risk or are and regulations: During 2007 the Group will work with the experiencing difficulties with their Carbon Trust on an environmental review Minimising waste by the promotion gambling: and looks forward to receiving any of recycling practices and re-use of recommendations made by the Trust.
Greyhound and racehorse welfare: materials as opposed to disposal, Historically, the Group have found it and where this is practicable: difficult to establish accurate utility Support to disadvantaged Efficient use of energy and water and consumption data covering all of its 2,000 individuals in horse and greyhound investigating ways of reducing plus premises.
consumption in this area: and quarterly meter readings will be taken at a The Group is also committed to providing Raising awareness of environmental sample of representative Group premises support, wherever possible, to its issues within the Group.
throughout the UK, is being established.
employees through their own fundraising Such base-line data will inform future Action to date efforts.
The Group allocates a proportion policy.
Additionally, the Group is seeking The Groups Property Department takes of its annual charitable donations budget to obtain and consider quotations for primary responsibility for identifying to match funds up to a specified limit green and reusable electricity during issues and opportunities within the raised by employees on local charitable 2007.
Groups LBO estate and the following projects.
During 2006 the nominated Future action action has been taken: charities of 47 staff members benefited The Board is committed to taking steps to from the matching scheme with staff High frequency light fittings are improve continuously its practices in the endeavours including marathon running specified in all new development and CR area and to embedding CR issues into and parachute jumps.
On occasion, the refurbishment projects thereby its corporate governance and operating Group also supports organisations with reducing the number of lamps framework.
whom it does business in their fundraising requiring disposal: efforts and in such cases donations may The Group is fully compliant with all In 2007, the Group intends to continue to not fall within the donations policy current legislative guidelines progress those initiatives that are already referred to above.
regarding the disposal of hazardous ongoing.
For example, it will continue to waste and is preparing to comply monitor relevant KPIs with a view to During the period the Group made with the new Waste, Electrical and establishing further targets once a trend charitable donations of 423,000 the Electronic Equipment WEEE in data has been determined.
Inevitably, largest proportion of which 333,000 39 the Group will focus heavily on the implementation of the Gambling Commissions social responsibility codes.
Until the Commissions final requirements are known, the full scope of the changes to existing industry codes and subsequent staff training requirements remain unclear.
In addition to Gambling Act implementation and training requirements the Group will focus on the following areas during the year: The introduction of an employee assistance programme offering staff a 24 hour confidential telephone line with help on personal, legal and work related issues: The launch of a new, improved staff lifestyle and benefits booklet: An employee engagement survey: Communicating the part the Groups staff can play in effective CR particularly in social responsibility and recycling: Work with the Carbon Trust on environmental practices: The establishment of reliable utility consumption data: The introduction of long service awards after 10, 20, and 25 years: and The establishment of procedures to record days lost through incidents at work.
Over time the Group plans to make additional information available to stakeholders via the Groups website and in future annual reports.
The Group welcomes feedback on it activities.
40 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate Responsibility
