Corporate responsibility Wincanton continues to work to improve its understanding of the risks and opportunities arising from Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE issues.
We believe that the risks to the business from ethical issues are generally low whilst social and environmental issues present both risks and opportunities for us.
These risks and opportunities are described in more detail below.
Transaid Nigeria Two Wincanton driver trainers spent a week in Nigeria with Transaid training local commercial drivers, as part of a pioneering programme to save the lives of pregnant mothers and their children.
Women in Nigeria have a one in 40 chance of dying in childbirth, compared to one in 7,000 in the UK and a lack of transport is one of the main reasons for this.
As in previous years, we have audited completed.
Our emphasis on reviewed and improved and good We have established a European all our UK and Ireland sites on SEE developing our management talent progress has been made in aligning Works Council that is the first issues.
A number of the findings are continues and nearly 1,200 managers minimum safety standards across the of its kind within a UK business incorporated in this report.
have completed training and UK& Ireland and Continental Europe.
to encompass employee development programmes.
Our key principles for Health & representatives from those Social Safety, which are established across Central European counties recently As a service industry business We launched a Home Computing the UK & Ireland, are now being rolled acceded to the European Union.
social issues present both major Initiative under the UK Government out into Continental Europe.
This body aims to improve dialogue opportunities and risks to Wincanton.
scheme and over 2,000 of our people and communications with our Accordingly, the responsibility for all participated in the scheme, purchasing We have been able to leverage the employees and their representatives such issues, policies and processes computers for domestic use.
We strengths of our in-house specialists on trans-national topics.
lies with the Group HR Director who have also been recognised for the to actively work with and advise the is a Board member.
quality of our Charity Payroll giving Health & Safety Executive and trade Environmental scheme with a UK Government bodies such as the Freight Transport Wincanton has maintained a high Employees award from Charities Trust.
Our Association on matters affecting standard of environmental The number of our employees has people have this year raised over national standards in the warehousing commitment over the years but we grown over the past year to more 50,000 for local and national and freight transport industries.
believe that the risks to the business than 27,000 people, primarily driven charities and as part of Wincantons need to be better understood.
by the acquisition of Premium support for Transaid driver trainers Industrial relations We are therefore currently Logistics in France in October 2005. were sent to Nigeria.
Our industrial relations skills, undertaking an environmental Of the total, some 21,600 work in the particularly in the area of change examination and audit of our UK where 15% of our workforce is Health & Safety management, are a major asset to activities and arrangements using female and 10% come from ethnic Providing a safe working environment the business, are well recognised by external advisors.
for our people is always a priority for our customers and help us to win and Wincanton.
This year has seen the renew business.
Equally we Recycling We continue to place great importance lost time accident rate continue to recognise that any industrial action Environmental issues also provide on all people-related issues and we reduce for the third year running in or unrest could pose a risk to our a significant business opportunity have well developed policies that are Continental Europe and the sixth year business and that of our customers, for Wincanton.
We have established applicable in all the countries in which running in the UK and Ireland.
so we work hard to ensure that such a national award winning recycling we operate.
As always, developing risks are minimised.
business, first for fridges and more our people is critical and this year a Our Safety, Health & Environment recently for all Waste Electronic and further 43,500 days of training were committee structure has been Electrical Equipment WEEE.
Last 16 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 WEEE recycling plant Big Truck Club In January Wincanton commissioned The Big Truck Club scheme is a new its new state-of-the-art WEEE road safety initiative that teaches recycling machine, in which it has school children about the dangers that invested 4.5m.
Capable of heavy goods vehicles, as well as other processing up to 75,000 tonnes p. a. traffic, can present to pedestrians and the equivalent of 826,500 washing cyclists.
The course provides a machines, 67m kettles or 536m valuable insight into road safety for mobile phones the machine takes children and includes Wincanton waste electronic and electrical items vehicles visiting schools to provide back to the basic material that can children with a practical understanding be recycled.
Wincanton facts year we recycled more than 200,000 Driving Many of our drivers have participated fridges and freezers.
Our new Wincanton employs around 8,000 in the Freight Best Practice Raised by employees for charity WEEE plant was commissioned in drivers, one of the largest driver Programme sponsored by the January and we are confident that workforces in the UK.
This year we Department for Transport, and our once the WEEE legislation takes have embarked on a major driver driver trainers are qualified under 50,000 effect it will be a significant training programme that has delivered the Safe and Fuel Efficient Driving contributor to the business.
a 13.3% reduction in accidents and Training scheme.
For example, on we are achieving a performance one contract this has resulted in a Training days completed Our operations continue to meet and better than the national average.
7% reduction in fuel consumption exceed Government requirements over a 12-month period.
and we are engaged in the recycling In support of this we aim to set 43,500 of significant tonnages of waste industry best practice for driver Ethical materials either in our own right, recruitment, induction and ongoing Wincantons strategy is focused on or on behalf of our customers.
We will maintain our Europe and therefore we believe Fridges and freezers recycled standards through audits and that ethical issues pose a low risk to Vehicles ensuring we have approved trainers, the shortand long-term value of the Wincanton has almost 5,800 vehicles mentors and assessors and for the business.
Our code of ethics is 200,000 that run over 500 million km for our first time we are running a Driver of published internally together with customers in the UK.
We have the Year competition in the UK.
our whistle-blowing policy and work recently placed orders for the first is being undertaken to ensure that Reduction in driving accidents Euro 4 standard vehicles that will be We believe that this programme is this is available and appropriate for delivered this year.
Progressively we good for everyone concerned and all our operations.
This is the expect these new vehicle standards it is also providing a cost benefit to responsibility of the Legal Director 13.3% to result in improved carbon the business.
We have also been trialling biodiesel fuels on our transport operation for Air Products and the results of this have been encouraging: fuel efficiency has been maintained with a significant reduction in carbon emissions.
Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17
