52 weeks ended 29 January 2006 Corporate social responsibility report Our approach to CSR is driven by our During the past year, taking into account We measure energy use across our business, Company vision and values, which cover the that this was a period of great change in the including our manufacturing and production interests of our key stakeholders customers, business and following appropriate stakeholder facilities, and in-house distribution, and will suppliers, colleagues and shareholders engagement, we have concentrated our be able to report comparatively on CO 2 and are supported by Group-wide policies resources for CSR matters on the priority equivalent emissions going forward.
for corporate governance, employment, health, areas of Environmental Management, with The total CO equivalent emissions 2 safety and welfare, ethical trading and a view to fulfilling our commitment to from energy used by the Group is responsible business practice.
reporting on emissions: and Product Integrity, 764,221 tonnes: or 63.1 tonnes of particularly with regard to healthy eating and Our aim is to reduce the impact of our CO m. Calculated using DEFRA 2 sustainability.
This report primarily covers business on the environment in which we reporting guidelines.
progress made in these areas and marks the operate through a programme of continuous start of working to provide more quantifiable All energy data has been migrated to the improvement that minimises risks and data for reporting in the future.
Other aspects Groups new energy management system, negative impacts and adds value to our of our CSR programme, such as Optima, which has extensive monitoring business by enabling us to enhance our implementation of our ethical trading code and targeting abilities based on sub-metered commercial operations.
and the maintenance, engineering and energy use enabling additional savings in A clear understanding of the CSR issues efficiency programmes aimed at helping terms of both cost and consumption.
For facing the Company and a focus on the to reduce the environmental impact of our example, the first site identified has already risks that are material to our business has transport fleet, have been maintained and achieved an 8% saving of electricity.
We are determined the following priorities: continue in line with business as usual.
also using Optima to identify consumption trends, incorporating building and lighting Product Integrity Environment: Energy efficiency and control information and refrigeration data.
Supply Chain Management & Labour greenhouse gas emissions Pioneering work already carried out is being Standards We recognise that Carbon Dioxide CO pursued to take us to new levels of savings.
2 Community Investment emissions and their effect on the climate We are participating in long-term Climate are the most significant environmental impact Operational Environmental Management Change Agreements for 202 stores and associated with our energy use.
In addition, Employment Policies seven production facilities.
As part of these reducing the energy used for power, heating agreements we monitor the energy used in These CSR priorities and any topical issues and refrigeration in our stores, offices, food preparation, with the aim of reducing arising are addressed through a cross factories and depots is an important carbon emissions associated with this activity.
functional Steering Committee of senior economic priority, as well as being of In addition, energy Good Practice Guides executives formerly the Business Ethics environmental benefit.
have been issued to all stores, to reduce Working Group.
Reporting directly to the Our policy is to reduce carbon dioxide consumption.
Main Board, this group provides leadership emissions from energy used for building on CSR matters and defines strategy, while services through responsible energy sourcing: also being responsible for overseeing the in our specification for construction, development and implementation of policies.
installation, maintenance and monitoring The on-going work programme is co-ordinated of plant: and also by minimising demand through the CSR arm of our Public Relations and promoting efficient consumption.
department, with delivery of activities undertaken through line management in each of the business divisions.
30 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 Summary for 2005 2006 Annual Report We have also continued to invest in energy Waste management We carefully monitor the number and saving initiatives in order to achieve further frequency of waste collections from each Our prime objective is to prevent the relative reductions in our energy consumption.
Calculations based upon industry generation of waste, wherever possible.
We are working with the Carbon Trust standard container weights indicate a figure Where this is unavoidable, we apply the and Future Energy Solutions on a number of around 2.5 tonnes of waste per store per waste management hierarchy of reduce, of projects to identify opportunities for week being sent to landfill.
In addition to re-use, recover, recycle, dispose.
Where improvements in efficiency and to eliminate recovering cardboard, paper and plastics, disposal is the only practical option available, waste energy.
One of these is assessing the we also recover Animal By-Products ABP, we use appropriately licensed waste feasibility and viability of using energy which are not fit for human consumption, management facilities in accordance with generated by wind turbine.
and waste cooking oils and fats.
is processed and used in the generation of Case study: Our priority over the past year has been to renewable energy, whilst waste cooking oils Energy Saving Initiative Trend.
ensure compliance with changing legislation and rotisserie fats from stores are currently Installation of the Trend automatic whilst ensuring that conversion stores fully being used in the manufacture of bio-diesel.
lighting control system has been extended adapt to Morrisons policy on waste to all former Safeway stores and is now Wherever possible we aim to offer our management.
As we now have fewer stores, established in 245 petrol filling stations.
customers the chance to recycle.
This is absolute volumes of material recovered for On average this has reduced electricity achieved by working in partnership with recycling have decreased compared to the consumption per site by 66%.
Local Authorities to provide recycling facilities previous year but the tonnage of material at our stores.
Currently these facilities are recovered per store has increased by 23%.
As a result of the store conversion available at 329 stores.
programme, all refrigeration systems have All of our stores have the capability to recover been re-commissioned to run at peak Avoiding generating waste is always cardboard and polythene, which are the efficiency.
By monitoring against these preferable to recycling it.
We have an largest contributors to waste produced in efficiencies we are able to quickly identify and extensive system of returnable baskets for store.
We continually review our systems and address any shortfalls.
Having phased out the both internal and external stock movements, processes in order to identify new ways to use of all CFC refrigerants, we are now in the which are continually reused through our recover more and reduce landfill.
We operate process of replacing HCFCs with HFCs.
All distribution network and between suppliers.
a programme to monitor recycling levels from new refrigeration systems are assessed using stores and provide support and training, Total Equivalent Warming Impact and for all where required, to help increase recovery new tenders we specify equipment from the levels.
Currently 72% of all store generated DEFRA Enhanced Capital Allowance list.
waste is recovered for recycling.
Case study: Equipment Specification Refrigeration.
Tonnes per store per week Annual tonnes Name Total Card Paper Plastic Total % change Refrigeration accounts for approximately 2004 135,670 n a n a 4.50 50% of a stores total energy consumption.
2005 121,925 5.13 0.41 5.54 23% A variety of proven energy saving technologies and methods covering engineering design, controls and equipment Waste analysis 2005 06 Material Tonnes % specification are used to reduce this Cardboard paper 112,982 63.48 consumption.
For the seven new stores Plastics 8,322 4.68 opened last year, these savings amounted Other recovered 7,268 4.08 to 1,218 tonnes CO per annum.
2 Landfill 49,400 27.76 Totals 177,972 100.00 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006 31 Summary for 2005 2006 Annual Report Corporate social responsibility report continued During the first quarter of 2005 we undertook Product integrity Community investment a trial offering customers the facility to return Throughout the year we have taken on board Fundraising for our Charity of the Year, Breast their carrier bags for recycling.
Initially our customers comments, enhancing our Cancer Campaign broke all previous records, conducted in 15 stores, mainly in the South range in accordance with their requirements.
with over 1 million being donated.
Initiatives and South East of England, the trial has Action resulting from this process has included a mobile phone recycling scheme, proved successful, indicating the potential included extending our premium Best range, offering charity Christmas cards and selling a to recover approximately 60kg per week in introducing more organic foods and increasing reusable carrier bag.
Also with the generous materials, which equates to over 3 tonnes the supply of locally sourced produce.
In support of our customers, we raised 65,000 over a 52 week period from each participating recognition of our role in the health debate, for the Asian Earthquake Appeal, which was store.
We are currently considering extending our Eat Smart range continues to develop donated to the Shelterbox Trust, and over this trial.
and we are also further developing our 197,000 for Children in Need.
Donations to Free From range to include Morrisons local and national causes, including through In addition to complying with the Producer brand products.
Morrisons Charitable Trust and excluding gifts Responsibility Packaging Waste Regulations, in kind totalled 678,000. we are working to find innovative packaging More than 4,000 changes to product solutions to eliminate or reduce the need for packaging and presentation have included Further details on our CSR programme and packaging, in line with meeting the shared a review of our on-pack labelling to include related company policies can be found on objectives of the Courtauld Commitment.
To energy, protein, carbohydrates, sugar, fat, our website www.
co. uk this end we are currently pursuing a number saturated fat, fibre, sodium and salt, together of projects with the Waste and Resources with Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs.
Our on-going salt reduction programme has achieved lower salt levels for hundreds of products, including ready meals, bread, soups, cooking sauces, cereals, snacks, and sandwich fillings.
Sustainability issues have also been high on our agenda with significant work involved in further developing our fish procurement policy to ensure we are buying from the most sustainable sources and finding the least depleted stocks.
This has resulted in some change to our range during the past year and we continue to review our policy as we address relevant issues.
We will also be working with our suppliers to address sustainability issues concerning the supply of palm oil as a commodity ingredient in many popular products.
32 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006
