WO40006 R&A 2006 42-51 10 10 06 11:05 pm Page 44 Corporate social responsibility report Although the Board believes that the environmental business operations: a commitment to the adoption impact of our distribution activities is comparatively and achievement of best practice wherever this In March low, we are committed to sound Corporate Social is practicable: a commitment to prevent pollution: Responsibility CSR policies and practices for good compliance with local environmental legislation: 2006 we business reasons.
Our commitment to CSR is not the adoption where practicable of local formal simply a response to increased market attention in environmental management systems: a commitment this area, but such issues reinforce the way that our to strive for continual improvement: and a became various businesses operate.
commitment to ensure proper communication with employees on environmental matters.
We regard CSR as a sustainable approach to a member business that seeks benefits for all of our stakeholders, Timber be they customers, employees, communities, the PB & M PBM, the French heavyside business, of the environment or the Company and its shareholders.
3 purchased 940,000m of timber in the financial year During the year we have maintained our dialogue 3 ended 31 July 2005 and 957,971m in the financial with stakeholders in this important area.
We are FTSE4Good year ended 31 July 2006.
More than 91% in the committed to the highest standards of corporate financial year ended 31 July 2006 2005: 88% of governance and environmental as well as other such timber was softwood, mainly sourced from CSR issues form part of the overall internal control Index countries such as Russia, Finland, France and process.
The Board believes that the businesses are Sweden.
A little over 3% of the timber purchased in best served by creating a safe working environment the year to 31 July 2006 was hardwood 2005: 5%, that encourages and supports high levels of sourced from suppliers who have not been censured business performance.
by the United Nations as part of resolution number 2001 1343.
PBM works with its suppliers to ensure We focus on issues such as safety, training, that timber is sourced from forests which have been behaviour-based performance and the provision certified by recognised forestry associations which of opportunities for our employees career growth promote sustainable forestry management.
Local community initiatives are the year further investment has been made in PBMs considered to be investments providing support IT systems to enable more accurate tracking of that will assist those communities, complement the the sources of timber purchased.
PBM saw a 4% aspirations of our customers, give our employees reduction to 44% in the timber purchased in the opportunities for professional development and help year from certified suppliers, although much of us to achieve our business objectives.
The Board the reduction is attributable to increased reporting believes that the progressive integration of CSR accuracy from the enhanced IT system.
PBM, throughout the business and the incorporation like Build Center and Stock Building Supply, has of broader social and environmental issues into engaged with its suppliers of Indonesian plywood day-to-day decision making will better enable us with a view to ensuring that any illegal logging to achieve our goals.
is excluded from the supply chain.
Imports of Indonesian plywood accounted for a little over In March 2006, we became a member of the 1% of all timber purchased by PBM in the financial UKs FTSE4Good Index Series following its Policy year ended 31 July 2006 2% in the year ended Committees decision that we had met its inclusion 31 December 2005.
The FTSE4Good Index is designed to purchases of Lauan plywood remained under measure the performance of companies that 0.05% of its timber purchases in the year ended meet globally recognised corporate responsibility 31 July 2006.
None of Build Center, PBM or Stock standards and to facilitate investment in those Building Supply purchase without appropriate companies where CSR issues are an influencing permits any species of timber included in any of the factor in the investors decision making process.
Appendices to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, which, inter alia, identify threatened species of trees.
Health, safety and environment Le Commerce du Bois, the French timber trade A key driver of the Groups success has been the federation of which PBM is a member, submitted a high degree of autonomy which has been afforded code of practice to the French environment ministry to local managements, allowing them to serve local in June 2005.
The code, which is based on both markets in the most appropriate manner.
Within this French domestic and internationally recognised decentralised structure, the Board has set down a standards, has been developed by the federation number of health, safety and environment principles working with importers and distributors and is with which all the Groups businesses are required to intended to set the standards for timber sourcing, comply.
The principles relating to environment cover: purchasing and distribution in France.
The code the integration of environmental management into Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 44 Corporate social responsibility report WO40006 R&A 2006 42-51 10 10 06 11:05 pm Page 45 is expected to be agreed by all relevant parties in growing and harvesting of trees with the protection of September 2006.
In the UK, Build Center purchased wildlife, plants, soil and water quality, together with a Chain of 3 350,000m of timber in the financial year ended wide range of conservation goals.
Stock Building 3 31 July 2005 and 347,483m in the financial year Supply maintains a constant dialogue with its suppliers, custody ended 31 July 2006.
More than 90% in 2005, reviewing their environmental practices and policies, and 88% in 2006 of such timber was sourced encouraging sustainable forestry management from Finland, Germany, Latvia, the UK and other practices and seeking opportunities to improve the volumes in European countries.
Less than 0.9% in 2005 and use of natural resources.
Sales of engineered wood 0.5% in 2006 of such purchases were of hardwood.
products, which are substitutes for wide dimension Some 72% of Build Centers raw material purchases solid-sawn timber, increased by a further 10% in Build Center made in the year ended 31 July 2006 2005: 67% the year ended 31 July 2006 2005: 21.6%.
Such were from certified sources.
During the year Build substitutes improve structural performance, thereby exceeded Center continued to engage with its suppliers with reducing the need to harvest as many larger, regard to the responsible sourcing of timber and the older trees.
elimination of illegal timber from the supply chain.
target by In June 2006 the governing board of the UK Timber Chain of custody Trade Federation TTF, of which Build Center is a It is well recognised that whilst sustainable sourcing member, voted to make its Responsible Purchasing 28% is vital, it is also key that illegal timber is eliminated Policy RPP which had been successfully trialled by from the supply chain, from the forest of origin to Build Center in 2004, a condition of its membership, the end user.
In the UK, Build Center began work subject to the consent of its members.
Formulated in 2003 on a chain of custody project that initially by the TTF to meet the requirements of the UK saw the implementation of new procedures in five Governments own timber procurement policy, the branches with 16 products within scope, all of which RPP was developed with the benefit of input from had been independently audited and approved by, principal suppliers, with a view to ensuring that or on behalf of, both the Forest Stewardship Council increasing volumes of sustainable timber are FSC and Programme for the Endorsement of progressively being made available to businesses Forest Certification PEFC.
The project required especially where timber is sourced from forests Build Center to identify certified sources for these where certification schemes are not widely in place.
initial 16 products, adapt management systems to Wolseley UK continues to promote the use of its identify and capture relevant data, undertake on-site web-based interface onto which its suppliers can training, create a dialogue with suppliers and create log their responses to specific questions and submit new documentation to ensure that despatch notes documentary evidence in support of their provenance, and invoices contain chain of custody certification such as chain of custody certificates.
Following a numbers and references to the certified status of successful round of supplier audits in 2005, 80% the product.
Internal and independent third party of timber supplies to Wolseley UK are documented audits have also been conducted.
From the original through the interface.
It is intended that over the next 16 products, the number of products within the 12 months the interface will be extended to collect chain of custody scheme now exceeds 3,000 and store data related to timber supplies from Stock and certification has been achieved at a further Building Supply and PBM.
41 branches during the year ended 31 July 2006 2005: 15 branches, bringing the total to 61 3 Stock Building Supply purchased some 4,580,000m branches by the end of the financial year.
Work of timber in the year ended 31 July 2005 and continues to secure accreditation at all of its 3 5,398,000m in the year ended 31 July 2006 of which remaining branches with the current target being 3 a little under 1,600,000m were structural panels.
to achieve accreditation at a further 59 branches Over 95% of timber purchased by Stock Building by 31 July 2007.
The volume of timber controlled Supply in the financial years 2005 and 2006 were within the chain of custody scheme in the year sourced from the USA and Canada, with 3 ended 31 July 2006 was 104,500m 2005: approximately 3% being sourced from Europe.
The 3 30,000m, some 30% of total timber purchased percentage of such purchases made from suppliers 3 2005: 8.6%.
This exceeded the target of 75,000m who hold certifications from recognised forestry for the year ended 31 July 2006 by 28%.
PBMs sustainability agencies, such as the American Forest hardwood business, as well as its garden products Products Association and the Canadian Standards business, Cerland, achieved certification for their Association remained at 90% for the third chain of custody procedures in 2003.
The American Forest Products progress has been made during the year to achieve Associations Sustainable Forest Initiative programme the same recognition in PBMs softwood import requires participants to meet an exacting standard of business, with the requisite pre-audit report having environmental principles, objectives and performance been completed in March 2004 and PEFC measures.
The standard integrates the perpetual Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 45 Corporate social responsibility report WO40006 R&A 2006 42-51 10 10 06 11:05 pm Page 46 certification awarded in November 2005.
In line with which environmental issues can be captured and the target set last year, 100% of all PBMs imported improvements made.
Wolseley UK has agreed an More than softwood in the year ended 31 July 2006 had either environmental policy which sets out the companys PEFC or FSC chain of custody certification.
position to customers, suppliers and other 4,800 stakeholders in relation to environmental matters.
Stock Building Supply does not have a formal chain Commitment has been made to continuous of custody procedure for its timber as it relies upon improvement in environmental performance, the tonnes the chain of custody procedures in place within prevention of pollution and to improving efficiency its suppliers.
As noted above, the vast majority in the use of resources including energy, water, of purchases made by Stock Building Supply are packaging and other raw materials.
During the of landfill from suppliers who hold recognised certifications year Wolseley UK continued to promote the use and whose harvests are strictly controlled by US of energy-efficient products in the boiler market, avoided by and Canadian Federal and State law.
Stock Building working closely with power suppliers and major Supply maintains an extensive dialogue with its boiler manufacturers to incentivise the installation suppliers regarding sustainability issues including of high efficiency boilers.
Carbon emissions saved Stock chain of custody.
through this and other schemes since 2001 are in excess of 180,000 tonnes.
Following the establishment of its Environmental Management Building Waste management System in 2004, which structures its approach to All of the Groups European companies comply with environmental matters, Wolseley UK attained ISO EU and domestic waste management regulations.
Supply 14001 accreditation in May 2005 for three of its In Ireland, Heatmerchants continues to reduce branches: this accreditation was maintained in the compliance costs by back-loading secondary waste year ended 31 July 2006 and work is underway paper, cardboard, wood pallets and plastic from to complete the accreditation process at a further branches to the main distribution centre for recycling.
three Wolseley UK branches by autumn 2006.
In the year to 31 July 2006, over 900 tonnes of such material was recycled 2005: 800 and thus saved Construction will begin in October 2006 of Wolseley from landfill resulting in cost savings of a144,000.
UKs Sustainable Building Center SBC, a 6,800 Brossette in France has installed containers at each square feet living, interactive showcase for renewable of its branches for the collection of plastic paper, and sustainable building materials.
The products wood and metal for recycling.
AG in Austria used in the construction of the building and those continues to operate its waste management strategy displayed within it, will be commercially available that has been in place since 1994 and which through Wolseley UKs existing branch network.
streams waste for collection and reprocessing Wolseley UK intends that the SBC, planned for by specialist contractors.
Stock Building Supply completion in July 2007, will become the leading UK has optimised the use of off-cuts in its truss industry resource for sustainable building products manufacturing facilities and, where possible, off-cuts and supporting information as well as the promotion which cannot otherwise be used are recycled by of sustainable building practices.
wood product manufacturers in order to minimise waste, reduce the need to use landfill sites and In common with other businesses within the Group, reduce costs.
Stock Building Supply estimates transport is a key area of focus for Wolseley UK.
that more than 4,800 tonnes of landfill was avoided Tight controls are enforced to ensure that the in the year ended 31 July 2006 2005: 4,800 minimum number of vehicles operate out of each which has resulted in savings of more than $345,000 Wolseley UK site and emphasis is placed upon route 2005: $290,000 in waste management costs.
planning to minimise delivery journeys and the Stock Building Supply intends to extend the number of kilometres travelled.
Progress continues recycling of off-cuts to its new truss manufacturing to be made across the whole UK transport fleet to facilities which is expected to increase the number improve this utilisation.
During the year, the Group of tonnes of landfill that will be avoided.
In the UK, introduced a Groupwide standard for transport equipment has been installed at our distribution management systems, with initial implementation warehouses to bale and recycle cardboard and in Wolseley UK.
The standard will enable transport hard plastic.
Recycling programmes operate in all management to work in real time to improve route of the businesses corporate offices.
planning and resource scheduling across different business sectors and between multiple sites helping to ensure that while utilisation of commercial vehicles Environment increases, the kilometres covered are reduced.
Wolseley UK has formed an Environmental The UK rollout of the transport management system Steering Group comprising senior managers and will take place over the next 12 months with the aim local board directors.
The Group identifies ways in Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 46 Corporate social responsibility report WO40006 R&A 2006 42-51 11 10 06 9:08 pm Page 47 to deliver an 8% reduction in kilometres covered, centres to branches as well as directly to customers, equivalent to 5 million kilometres and reducing thereby reducing handling and transport costs More than carbon emissions by around 2,000 tonnes per together with vehicle emissions.
The transport management system is an policy of sourcing vehicles from a supplier with a 2,200 important tool in the Groups drive to support leading reputation in environmentally friendly diesel environmentally friendly transport initiatives, technology.
The engines for all replacement vehicles alongside a reduction in vehicle sizes and numbers are certified to meet the US Governments standards vehicles and backloading, which in the UK has saved for particulate emissions.
Approximately 508 vehicles suppliers over 7,000 journeys each year.
or 25% of the fleet replaced during the year were equipped with emissions technology that meets replaced In March 2006, Wolseley UK took part in a fleet such standards.
Ferguson is also seeking to take efficiency survey of delivery vehicle activities, the full advantage of new digital valve technology with more results of which will be used by the UK Department to improve air quality and fuel economy throughout for Transport sponsored Freight Best Practice its entire distribution network.
In the previous financial programme in its work towards encouraging fleets year Ferguson purchased a hybrid electric petrol fuel efficient to improve their operational efficiency.
The survey vehicle to assess the benefits of improved fuel covered a range of measures including fuel use, economy and reduced emissions which such vehicles number of deliveries and operating costs.
A may be able to offer compared to conventional models benchmarking report is expected be published by vehicles.
The assessment revealed that the reduction the Freight Best Practice programme in October 2006. in fuel consumption is minimal and concluded that The use of high capacity trailers has continued to the particular vehicle is commercially unviable.
reduce the number of vehicles operating between However, further work continues both within each of the UK distribution centres and significant Ferguson and Stock Building Supply to identify investment continues to be made in distribution suitable alternatives.
Multiple stock replenishment deliveries to branches from suppliers have been reduced As part of Stock Building Supplys transport as loads are consolidated in Wolseley UKs own management programme, many suppliers back-load distribution warehouses for onward delivery.
their delivery vehicles to avoid wasteful return journeys.
Consolidating loads further reduces the number of This initiative is part of a modernisation programme supplier vehicles on the road while minimising the that also includes investment in a national fleet local impact around branches.
There is a continued management, fuel and servicing system aimed focus on pooling branch vehicles across each of the at achieving optimal fleet efficiency and curbing Wolseley UK brands, which will ensure that the fleet excessive emissions and which has also ensured eliminates wasteful multiple deliveries and reduces that an appropriate level of capital expenditure is the number of kilometres travelled.
During the year, invested in new environmentally friendly vehicles.
Wolseley UK has continued with its project to These vehicles incorporate emission and fuel improve fuel consumption across its primary economy technologies which already comply with, distribution fleet, switching its commercial vehicle or exceed, forthcoming US Government standards.
fuel use to bio-diesel at its three regional distribution During the year ended 31 July 2006, over 420 such centres which now use around two million litres vehicles were replaced a little under 11% 2005: of bio-diesel annually: this is set to increase as the 300 or a little over 8% of such vehicles.
These new fuel becomes more available within the UK.
Further vehicles are approximately 70% more fuel-efficient initiatives include individual vehicle monitoring, than the ones they replaced.
In common with other combined with driver training programmes and Wolseley companies, Stock Building Supplys the replacement of older, less fuel-efficient vehicles.
maintenance programme seeks to improve both Some 265 2005: 216 vehicles were replaced during safety and fuel-efficiency by increasing reliability the year with vehicles that are more than 3% more through the direct purchase of spare parts and also fuel-efficient.
Wolseley UKs transport group also by rigorous tyre management.
In 2004 Stock pays continuous attention to servicing programmes Building Supply successfully tested a GPS Global which include regular emissions checks to ensure Positioning System pilot programme, which vehicle efficiency and has adopted a reduced indicated that further efficiencies could be achieved emissions and tyre pressure management system and would allow the company to plan more efficient for optimal fleet use.
delivery routes to enhance customer service and further reduce the number of kilometres driven.
Ferguson in the USA has been using a transportation The pilot also demonstrated that safety could be management system for its fleet of more than improved as drivers speed can be monitored.
Stock 2,000 diesel powered delivery vehicles.
The system Building Supply has now rolled out the initiative such optimises the delivery of goods from distribution that in the year ended 31 July 2006, 371 vehicles Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 47 Corporate social responsibility report WO40006 R&A 2006 42-51 12 10 06 17:11 Page 48 benefited from the GPS programme 2005: 225. reviews the UK businesses performance in health The initiative, having estimated the avoidance of and safety matters, promotes good practice and 2006 UK over 350,000 additional kilometres being driven ensures appropriate consultation on any intended in the last year, is expected to be rolled out to a changes to its health and safety management Fleet Safety further 150 vehicles in the next year.
All branch and area managers are Supplys regional distribution centres were designed trained in this area and all employees are trained to facilitate product delivery by rail.
More than 70% to complete their daily tasks in a safe manner.
Awards: 2005: 55% of deliveries to the distribution centres In July 2006, Wolseley UK received recognition for are made in this way, with over 17,000 wagon loads its health and safety initiatives by winning two awards equivalent to some 68,800 2005: 60,000 lorry at the UK Fleet Safety Awards.
The awards are a Road Risk loads received during the last year alone.
Delivery by national event organised by Brake, the UK road rail continues to be encouraged and is expected to safety charity, and are designed to promote risk Manager of continue to grow with our investment in distribution management best practice among businesses centres designed to receive more product in this way.
by recognising organisations and professionals who have worked significantly to improve the safety the Year Brossettes new organisational structure has of vehicle operations.
The awards for Road Risk reduced the number of warehouses and has Manager of the Year and Best Crash Analysis regrouped branches to improve productivity and Procedures recognise the work undertaken by awarded to customer service while at the same time reducing the companys Fleet Safety Steering Group which the number of delivery journeys and transport introduced a fleet safety handbook, newsletters, Wolseley UK costs.
Brossette has a national fleet maintenance an occupational road risk policy, regular management programme in place, which seeks to secure optimal review meetings with industry experts and insurers use of its delivery vehicles while minimising the as well as benchmarking against best in class.
Brossette seeks to Online driving assessments and a Commercial take advantage of technological improvements Vehicle Driver of the Year award to promote safety when renewing its fleet to both reduce emissions amongst employees have also contributed towards and to optimise fuel consumption.
All new vehicles increased awareness of safety issues and an overall are fitted with the latest software technology to reduction in commercial vehicle and company improve efficiency and to reduce the number of car accidents.
Some 170 vehicles around 13% of such vehicles 2005: 102, around 10% were Brossette has a central health and safety committee replaced during the year.
PBM has continued with which oversees the work carried out by the health its fleet renewal programme to increase fuel efficiency, and safety committees in individual branches.
improve safety and reduce both emissions and Representatives of Brossette and its employees transport costs.
In the year to 31 July 2006, sit on each local committee, together with an 872 vehicles were replaced 2005: 486 representing occupational health doctor.
All new employees and a little over 22% of PBMs fleet 2005: 13%.
managers receive appropriate induction and training Fleet efficiency is underpinned by a national fleet which includes matters related to health and safety.
management programme, which ensures uniform PBM seeks to increase awareness of the importance operating standards.
PBM ensures that its drivers of health and safety matters throughout its business training is maintained and seeks ways of encouraging using a programme which reinforces the fact that responsible driving.
each of its employees has both a responsibility and a part to play in maintaining and improving health and safety standards.
Stock Building Supply has a Health and safety safety committee with responsibility for developing, The Company has developed a health and safety introducing and monitoring the effectiveness of its framework which requires local management to have overall safety programme and objectives.
Stock suitable procedures in place to ensure compliance Building Supply recognises that it must work with applicable laws and regulations and, wherever together with its employees towards the common possible, to employ best practices.
One of the key goal of eliminating hazards and accidents and issues for the Group is the creation of a work employees are expected to participate in actively environment free from injury and illness and how promoting a positive safety culture.
The safety to achieve improvements in our health and safety committee comprises employees with different performance.
This is driven not only by legal perspectives and from varied disciplines.
Each responsibility, but also by the ethical desire to protect branch manager is responsible and accountable our employees.
Wolseley UK has an Executive for health and safety at his or her branch, including Safety Steering Group, supported by its health and compliance with regulations, safety awareness and safety department.
This comprises senior managers accident prevention.
All new employees are given and local board directors.
The Steering Group Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 48 Corporate social responsibility report WO40006 R&A 2006 42-51 11 10 06 10:24 pm Page 49 induction training relating to safe working practices introduced its Driven to Safety programme, a and hazards present in the workplace.
Training is proactive safe driver training programme.
Since then, Driven also provided when an employee is requested to every delivery driver has been trained in a variety of manage new processes, procedures or equipment.
ways to recognise hazardous conditions, plan the to Safety Monthly mandatory safety meetings are held at appropriate response and take decisive action.
Every each branch during which, as a minimum, topics new driver joining Stock Building Supply receives such designated by the safety committee must be bespoke training and each drivers knowledge and initiative discussed.
Safety issues within each branch are ability to practice safe driving techniques will be dealt with by a safety coordinator or local safety assessed.
Ferguson intends to roll out a Driven to committee consisting of a cross-section of employees.
Safety initiative within its own business during the to be rolled year ending 31 July 2007.
Ferguson has continued Stock Building Supply and Ferguson have been to promote its Customer CARE Customers and out within working together over the last three years to improve Associates Require Excellence programme which their performance in the areas of both health and is intended to symbolise Fergusons determination safety and traffic accidents.
The joint initiative has to achieve a culture of excellence throughout the Ferguson been driven not only by the costs to the business of organisation.
The programme includes two goals increasing medical and other expenses associated aimed at communicating the importance of safety with claims for workers compensation but also the and quality and to promote a safe working in 2006 7 desire to reduce the incidence of injury and to reduce environment for all of its employees.
In common the consequential effect that such incidences have with Mart in Hungary which obtained its accreditation on other employees and the business.
Each of in 1997, Cesaro in the Czech Republic has also the businesses set targets during the year to reduce continued to demonstrate its commitment to the frequency and cost of both workers compensation customer care during the year following its achievement and traffic incidents, enhance their programmes to of ISO 9001 accreditation in June 2005 for its quality help employees to return to work even if this is on management processes.
The continued accreditations modified duty, improve the reporting of claims to acknowledge the companies ability to fulfil their ensure that prompt action is taken and increase customers quality requirements and applicable measures to ensure that employees are able to seek regulatory requirements while aiming to enhance any required medical attention.
This joint initiative has customer satisfaction and achieve continual resulted in a significant improvement to the longer term improvement of performance in pursuit of trends in both companies health and safety records.
Ferguson, having seen a 14% reduction in the number of work-related injuries in the six months Acquisitions to 31 March 2005, saw an increase of 24% in the A great deal of importance is placed on number of such injuries in the year to 31 July 2006 environmental matters during the due diligence against a background of a 19% increase in its process for acquisitions.
Whilst Stock Building Supply achieved consultants review and assess environmental a 21% reduction in work-related injuries in the six risks to which the Group could potentially become months to 31 March 2005 it experienced an increase exposed.
Depending upon the type of proposed of 22% in the number of such injuries in the year acquisition, this assessment could include reviews to 31 July 2006 during which period its workforce of environmental management systems, compliance increased by 23%.
Measures have been taken to with laws and regulations and the respect and care increase focus to return to the results achieved in shown for the environment.
These include the appointment of a director of compliance and processes are also considered as health and safety for the North American businesses part of the process.
Appropriate dialogue with, and and, with effect from 1 August 2006, the creation of indemnities from, the proposed vendors are sought a North American safety committee which will oversee where appropriate.
such matters across both the US and Canada.
Ferguson achieved a 100% rate of returning injured employees to work either on modified duty or to their Code of Ethics original jobs, with Stock Building Supply achieving A Groupwide Code of Ethics has been in place 90% in the year ended 31 July 2006.
This sets out a number of fundamental have continued to make progress in reducing vehicle principles which all companies and employees are accidents and the impact of such accidents over the required to follow.
In keeping with our decentralised last year.
Ferguson saw an increase of 6.5% in vehicle approach, businesses are required to adopt their accidents in the year ended 31 July 2006 in a period own codes which respect local cultures and when its vehicle fleet expanded by 23% and Stock businesses but which also set standards that are Building Supply held its accident frequency rate at still no less exacting than those detailed in the prior year levels.
In May 2005, Stock Building Supply Groupwide Code.
To a large extent, these individual Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 49 Corporate social responsibility report WO40006 R&A 2006 42-51 10 10 06 11:06 pm Page 50 codes simply underpin and endorse existing manager from Wolseley UK and the level of interest practices.
New companies joining the Group are to date has proved very encouraging.
Themes and 21 million required to adopt codes of ethics on the same topics that do not receive sufficient coverage during basis as existing businesses.
The Groupwide the online sessions gain a response in the weeks spent on Code covers many areas including fair competition, following the live event and all questions and compliance with laws, including anti-trust laws, answers are posted on the companys intranet to maintenance of the Groups reputation for integrity allow employees who were not able to join the live more than including a prohibition on bribery and general event an opportunity to participate.
Stock Building principles for dealing with suppliers and authorities Supplys survey compared results to its previous and can be viewed on the Companys website at survey in 2002 and to the US national norm: the 142,000 www.
com or a printed copy is available results showed that of the 13 areas covered by from the Group Company Secretary.
Wolseley UK, the survey, including such matters as working days of for example, has incorporated the Code of Ethics conditions, supervisors skills, communication and into a wider document which sets out the principles benefits, nine were statistically above the US national on which business is transacted.
This includes norm and four were at that level.
Overall, Stock employee principles related to diversity, safety, inducements, Building Supplys employees expressed far greater communication, the environment and human rights.
satisfaction with their jobs compared with the The human rights policies and procedures are based US national norm and demonstrated a significant training on the principles set out in the United Nations amount of goodwill towards the company.
Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
Community relations The workplace Notwithstanding the international nature of the One of the Boards objectives is to ensure that we business, the Group continues to operate with a provide a workplace environment that encourages high degree of autonomy, working in and with our and supports our employees in achieving their best local communities.
We recognise our responsibility personal performance.
Further work was undertaken to invest in the communities in which our businesses during the year in this area coordinated by the operate and to act as a good corporate citizen.
Groupwide human resource function that resides We are members of Business in the Community in in Theale.
The development of leadership skills of the UK and continue to work with that organisation senior managers is also a key objective and further to help develop our approach and practice.
The progress has been made to enable more participants Groups businesses are involved in a wide range than ever before to attend programmes at Darden of initiatives for the benefit of local communities, and IMD.
Training and development programmes for of which the following are representative: all employees are crucial to the ability of the business to achieve its goals.
Significant attention The Groups businesses, customers, suppliers and and resources continue to be devoted to this issue.
employees were directly affected by the devastation Just under 21 million 2005: 12 million was spent in the southern states of the US caused by Hurricane on training of employees during the year, with over Katrina in August 2005.
Just a few weeks before 142,000 2005: 75,250 days of training provided.
the hurricane began the Group had announced Whilst Wolseley is committed to promoting equal the creation of Wolseley North America to leverage opportunities for all, it is believed that, overall, the combined resources of all of its North American women and minorities continue to be underbusinesses.
The groundwork was thus in place represented.
We believe that we have the right to enable Ferguson and Stock to make a strong policies in place to meet or exceed legal requirements joint response to those affected in the Gulf Coast in this area although we continue to explore the region by formulating plans to develop pre-existing factors that are critical to achieving greater diversity.
relationships with local businesses and customers in Further work continues to be undertaken in this area.
order to offer joint premises staffed by local people to assist some of the hardest hit areas in re-establishing Wolseley UK and Stock Building Supply both water and sewer systems and supplying pipe used undertook company-wide employee surveys during to pump flood waters out of the area.
Assistance the year allowing employees to suggest areas for was also given to the US Federal Emergency improvement and voice concerns.
Wolseley UKs Management Agency to provide emergency housing.
2005 survey highlighted the need for better internal Among the numerous local efforts to help the victims communications: in response, the company of the hurricane and in addition to the Groupwide introduced a monthly online chat session which and local company cash donations noted on page 51 generated over 700 questions in the first two of this Report.
Ferguson delivered emergency response sessions.
Each session is hosted by a senior products, including generators, batteries, torches and pumping equipment to the affected area.
Stock Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 50 Corporate social responsibility report WO40006 R&A 2006 42-51 10 10 06 11:06 pm Page 51 Building Supply worked in partnership with a school UKs employees took part in the 2006 Race for Life in Raleigh, North Carolina to deliver donations of including three employees from the companys Ripon Habitat for school supplies and books to a school in Gulfport, office who raised over 3,000 for Cancer Research Mississippi where several of the classrooms and UK.
Wolseley UK and the Variety Club Golf Society Humanity more than 10,000 library books had been destroyed.
raised 15,000 towards the 15th Variety Club coach Teams of Stock Building Supply management which has been sponsored by the company.
The trainees also travelled to areas where the families 16 seat coach will be used to take pupils from supported of colleagues had been affected by the hurricane to a local school, 60% of whom are involved in the help with the relief effort.
As well as school supplies Special Olympics, to sporting events around the donated by employees, supplies of tools were UK and overseas.
by all three donated by many Stock Building Supply branches.
Habitat for Humanity North A Relay for Life team from Fergusons corporate offices in Newport News, Virginia, participated in this All three of the Groups North American businesses years event for the ninth consecutive year, raising once again supported the efforts of Habitat for American $16,500 for cancer charities.
In May 2006, Ferguson Humanity, the non-profit organisation that seeks to employees participated in a food drive in aid of eliminate substandard housing and homelessness the Virginia Peninsula Food Bank.
The goal was from the world.
Ferguson and Stock Building Supply businesses to collect 1,000lbs of non-perishable foods ranging participated in the organisations Home Builders Blitz from individual meals and soups to baby food and with donations of materials and over 100 employees rice.
Within just 12 days, 10,350lbs of food had in 32 states working to help build 700 Habitat homes been collected, surpassing the goal by over ten in a week.
Wolseley Canada, through its membership times.
Employees from Fergusons Waterworks of the Canadian Institute of Plumbing and Heating division in San Marco raised over $3,000 for the CIPH, has helped to raise over C$1,000,000 citys Rescue Mission, taking part in a fancy dress for Habitat for Humanity Canada HFHC in 2006. bed race around the citys Fletcher Park.
In CIPH has raised over C$3,500,000 for HFHC since November 2005, employees from Fergusons Fort 1994, helping over 500 Canadian families across the Myers branch raised nearly $4,000 in a Turkey Drive country move into their own homes.
allowing the Salvation Army to purchase over 400 Christmas turkeys for families in the local area.
Donations In April 2006, numerous initiatives by employees In response to the devastation of Hurricane Katrina, at Stock Building Supplys corporate headquarters Wolseley plc together with its three operating in Raleigh, North Carolina, raised over $5,000 for companies in North America Ferguson, Stock the US National Multiple Sclerosis Society.
Stock Building Supply and Wolseley Canada, committed Building Supply supported a project with the US $200,000 to the relief effort.
In many cases, the television show Extreme Makeover: Home Edition Groups companies also match dollar-for-dollar to build a new home for the members of a family employee donations to charitable causes, such as in Cincinnati who had experienced severe personal the $68,000 in hurricane relief donations made by difficulties.
Stock Building Supply, together with local its employees which were matched by Stock Building contractors, donated time and materials to build a Supply.
Ferguson made a $10,000 donation to new home for the family in just five days.
An initiative Cancer Services of Greater Baton Rouge to help in Fort Worth, Texas, saw Stock Building Supply and improve the quality of life for cancer sufferers in Ferguson join forces to help a local contractor the hurricane affected region.
In addition to these rebuild the home of a local family who were initiatives, the Group supports charities relevant struggling to cope with the ongoing medical to the countries and to the locations in which its problems of their seven-year-old son and whose businesses operate.
These are wide-ranging and home had fallen into a state of disrepair.
Between cover health, welfare, education, civic and them, Stock Building Supply and Ferguson donated community projects as well as culture and the arts.
timber, windows, doors, plumbing fixtures, fittings Each year, several hundred donations are made.
and appliances for the project.
In the USA, many of our employees make regular contributions to the United Way, an organisation Wolseley UK supported the renovation of an old which distributes funds to charities.
In the UK, jetty at a special needs centre near Birmingham by a Give As You Earn Scheme operates with the donating materials from a local branch.
The new assistance of the Charities Aid Foundation which jetty has been designed for children who are blind, distributes funds to UK charities.
Further details of partially sighted or wheelchair users so that they the donations made during the year are set out on can get closer to the local wildlife.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 51 Corporate social responsibility report
