Corporate Social Responsibility This year has been another successful year for our CSR activities which are detailed in our fourth online CSR report.
At Woolworths Group plc we are committed to good corporate governance, open dialogue with our Stakeholders and sound risk management.
We behave in a way that not only protects our brand and its good standing but also protects our people and our customers, and respects our sources of supply around the world.
This year has again been one in which we have continued to promote high ethical and environmental standards in every part of the business.
A good example of this is our continued effort to support and work together with our suppliers in the Far East, helping them to raise standards in their factories and create better working conditions for their employees.
In 2005 our buying ofce in Hong Kong increased the number of unannounced audits it made to Chinese factories to give us a clearer picture of conditions there and hence improve our ability to instigate corrective actions where they are required.
These are time-consuming and work-intensive activities.
Nevertheless, of 98 audits scheduled, we completed 96, a highly successful 98 per cent fullment rate.
Closer to home, an exciting development within all our stores has been the increased focus on multichannel retailing.
By enabling our customers to order from our online catalogue at any Woolworths till, we have transformed the choice and range of products on offer in our smaller stores and remote areas of the country.
2005 also saw the opening of our Bedford Distribution Centre.
Its environmentally friendly credentials are impressive from the collection of rainwater on the roof which will help us to cut water usage on site by up to 45 per cent a year, to the reductions we will Playground Partnership make in our carbon dioxide emissions.
Importantly, the Bedford DC Our agship Community Project, Playground Partnerships, is all about plays an integral part in our new distribution network, which will helping children to learn through play, signicantly reduce our vehicle mileage over the coming years.
to make a difference to their school As an important part of the high street and a comparatively and above all, to have fun.
large employer, we like to do all we can to support the local communities in which our stores are based.
Our colleagues, customers and suppliers have given our associated charity, Kids First, some tremendous support over the year.
Its grant-awarding initiative Playground Partnerships, which we launched in 2004, has gone from strength to strength.
The scheme encourages primary school children to design and develop projects to improve Committed to their playgrounds and this year we were delighted to be able to double the grant fund to 500,000 and expand the scheme to special schools.
responsible Our CSR Committee ensures that we are constantly reviewing and considering issues on the CSR agenda so that we meet all legal obligations on this front.
Proper CSR management is at the heart of business practices.
everything we do and in the coming year we intend to make further progress on our achievements in 2005.
For a full report on the Groups activities in CSR, please refer to the Companys website.
Alternatively, for a hard copy of the 2006 CSR report please contact the Company Secretary.
Yours sincerely Trevor Bish-Jones Chief Executive 28 March 2006 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12
