How we behave Corporate responsibility Business impact How we manage corporate responsibility risk and opportunity Corporate responsibility is of growing relevance to WPPs business.
In several of our key markets there is increasing Paul Richardson is the Board director responsible for consumer, media and governmental interest in environmental assessing corporate responsibility risks.
He chairs WPPs and social issues.
Our multinational and leading national Corporate Responsibility Committee, established in 2003. clients are engaging with subjects from climate change The committee is made up of senior representatives and labour standards to healthy eating and poverty in the from WPPs major business categories.
It identi es and developing world.
assesses signi cant corporate responsibility risks and We believe that WPP is well placed to capitalise on opportunities for the business.
In support of WPPs opportunities created by the corporate response to social corporate responsibility activities, the Groups operating and environmental change.
Our businesses are increasingly companies have each nominated a corporate responsibility supporting clients to develop and promote products that representative responsible for compiling and reporting data meet consumer demand for environmentally friendly or to the parent company and co-ordinating activity within ethically-conscious products.
Our Corporate Responsibility the operating companies.
Policy and Report are becoming progressively more relevant Paul Richardson provides an annual assessment of when competing for new business.
corporate responsibility risks and performance to the Audit WPP share owners continue to show interest in our Committee.
This is in addition to the business and financial corporate responsibility practices and we aim to respond reporting risks process described on pages 108 and 109. constructively to their requests for information.
WPP is WPPs Corporate Responsibility Policy and our Code included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the of Business Conduct provide guidance for our people on a FTSE4Good Index.
wide range of ethical, social and environmental subjects.
Both documents are publicly available on our website www.
Signi cant issues We have established an initial set of key performance indicators KPIs in our Corporate Responsibility Reports.
We focus our efforts on the issues we have identi ed as These relate to marketing ethics, employment, social being most material relevant and signi cant to WPP.
In investment and climate change.
2006 we revised our assessment in light of increased global attention to climate change.
We consider five corporate responsibility issues to be of signi cance to WPP: Corporate responsibility goals The social and environmental impact of our work for clients.
We have two ongoing corporate responsibility goals: Marketing ethics, compliance with marketing standards, Contribution to society Undertake pro bono work and and protection of consumer privacy.
make donations to charity to a value of 0.4% of revenue.
Employment, including diversity and equal Marketing ethics Comply with all laws and industry opportunities, business ethics, employee development, codes governing marketing material.
remuneration, communication, and health and safety.
Achieving our goals requires co-ordinated effort across Social investment, including pro bono work, donations five continents and communication with over 2,000 of ces.
to charity and employee volunteering.
This year we met our goal to contribute 0.4% of revenue to Climate change, including the emissions from energy charity.
On our marketing ethics, among the thousands of used in our of ces and during business travel.
advertisements prepared by WPP companies, we identi ed 23 infringements of marketing codes in seven countries.
In 2007, we will establish new goals for reducing our carbon footprint.
How we behave WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave Corporate responsibility Progress in 2006 Cause-related marketing We will publish our fifth Corporate Responsibility Cause-related marketing links brands to charities, usually Report in 2007.
This will provide a detailed and objective through a donation for every product purchased.
Executed account of how we are implementing WPPs Corporate sensitively, these campaigns bene t both brand and charity.
Responsibility Policy across our businesses.
A summary of Many WPP companies work on cause-related marketing.
our progress is provided below.
Examples from 2006 are included in our Corporate Corporate responsibility information is collected via an Responsibility Report.
internal survey of our businesses.
This survey is conducted annually and signed off by the CEO for each operating company.
The results are collated and validated by our Marketing ethics audit function.
As a minimum our businesses are expected to comply with all laws, regulations and codes of marketing practice.
The impact of our work Our Code of Business Conduct states that we will not knowingly create work which contains statements, The work our companies produce is a signi cant part of suggestions or images offensive to general public decency our corporate responsibility performance.
Supporting and will give appropriate consideration to the impact of clients by marketing products that offer environmental and our work on minority segments of the population, whether social bene ts is key.
In addition, WPP businesses work for that minority be by race, religion, national origin, colour, governments producing campaigns to raise public awareness gender, sex or sexual orientation, gender identity or of issues such as climate change, the importance of health expression, age or disability.
and well-being and the dangers associated with illegal drugs.
Supporting marketing standards Corporate responsibility in our client work Many professionals from within WPP companies play an New products, for example those that reduce societys important part in developing and revising industry codes impact on climate change, require new marketing in sensitive areas such as advertising to children and the approaches to succeed.
Our companies commercial marketing of food and pharmaceutical products.
and creative abilities will play a role in promoting the sustainable consumption patterns of the future.
In our Complaints Corporate Responsibility Report we pro le campaigns for clients which contain work with an environmental or social Most of the campaigns we produce for clients do not dimension.
This work is indicative of a trend emerging in cause complaint, but occasionally complaints do occur many markets around the world.
relating to matters of taste or fact.
In most countries these are arbitrated by government or industry organisations.
Social marketing We have started to track the number of global complaints although our data is still incomplete.
In 2006 among WPP companies undertake work for clients frequently the many thousands of advertisements prepared by government agencies where the objective is to advance a WPP companies we identi ed some 23 infringements social or environmental cause.
These campaigns typically of marketing codes in seven countries.
provide public health information, raise awareness of environmental issues or address public safety.
Examples of Privacy social marketing campaigns by WPP agencies in 2006 are included in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Privacy is an important issue for our market research and direct marketing companies as they hold and use consumer data.
Our operating companies comply with national data protection laws and marketing codes of practice such as the UK Data Protection Act and the EU Data Protection Directive.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave.
How we behave Corporate responsibility WPP as an employer All of our major agencies in the US have internal programmes to increase the diversity of their workforce.
Diversity These include: Partnerships: Our agencies support the work of We aim to have a talent base that re ects the rich diversity diversity organisations such as the American Association of the communities in which we operate.
We believe of Advertising Agencies AAAA Operation Success, the diversity contributes to our business creativity and Leadership, Education and Development Program in enhances our understanding of multicultural markets.
Business, the National Black Public Relations Society and Our non-discrimination policy, introduced in 1992, the LaGrant Foundation.
commits us to select, develop and promote the best people Internships: Many WPP companies participate in the without regard to factors such as race, religion, national AAAAs Multicultural Advertising Internship Program origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or MAIP and other initiatives that allow minority students expression, age or disability.
to gain experience in the marketing industry.
Targeted recruitment activities: WPP companies have launched initiatives to enhance diversity recruitment at Gender diversity 2002-2006 % entry, mid and senior levels.
This includes participating in minority recruitment fairs, and using specialised Employees 100 recruitment agencies and publications.
Male 80 Raising employee awareness: Our companies provide 60 Female training and information to ensure that employees 40 understand our policies and the importance of creating 10 a diverse workforce.
0 Sixteen New York advertising agencies have set 02 03 04 05 06 goals with the New York City Commission on Human Rights to improve workforce diversity.
This includes 100 Account directors several WPP agencies.
Male 80 60 Female Development and training 40 10 0 Staff training and welfare 2002-2006 m 02 03 04 05 06 20.9 21.7 25.1 32.7 38.2 40 100 Executive directors 30 Male 80 20 60 Female 10 40 10 0 02 03 04 05 06 0 02 03 04 05 06 WPP is a people business and we aspire to high standards of The Groups Code of Business Conduct contains employment progression and investment in the development policies on human resource issues, such as harassment of our teams.
Our approach includes performance and discrimination.
Our people can report any concerns assessment, succession planning and training.
Our goal or suspected cases of discrimination or misconduct is for our people at all levels in our businesses to receive con dentially and anonymously if desired through our regular performance appraisals.
In 2006, WPP invested 38.2 million in training and In 2006, women accounted for 34% of executive well-being across the Group.
We have introduced courses directors, 50% of account directors and 58% of total aimed at developing creative leadership, client leadership employees.
There are three women on WPPs board.
How we behave WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave Corporate responsibility Our operating companies also run a range of training Our agencies seek to create an environment where courses covering all aspects of agency business and creative people feel able to discuss any issues, including stress, skills.
For example, many agencies in the UK are accredited with their manager or human resources department.
as Investors in People including Coley Porter Bell, EWA Our companies also assess the risk of work-related stress Bespoke Communications, Headcount and Ogilvy through regular staff surveys and by monitoring issues Healthworld.
This is a UK standard of good practice for raised via our Right to Speak helpline, Employee Assistance training and development.
Programs and during exit interviews.
Initiatives to combat workplace stress vary by Employee share ownership company but include: Employee Assistance Programs a source of con dential Share ownership gives our people a financial stake in the advice, support and counselling.
Company and a share in its success.
WPPs Worldwide Flexible bene t programs, including subsidised childcare.
Ownership Plan, introduced in 1997, has granted share Flexible work arrangements enabling people to work options to over 64,095 of our people.
Details of this part-time or from home.
plan and other executive stock options can be found Medical checks and health screening.
Training on stress and time management.
Communication Employee external appointments With 100,000 people in 106 countries strong internal The Company recognises that its directors and senior communication is essential.
Some examples are: executives may be invited to become non-executive Distribution of the Annual Report and Accounts, directors of other companies and that such exposure may the Navigator company handbook, the Atticus Journal, be bene cial to the Group.
Consequently, executives are The WIRE WPPs global newspaper, and regular allowed to accept non-executive appointments with nonFactFiles to all companies worldwide.
competing companies subject to obtaining the approval of A monthly online news bulletin e. wire.
the Group chief executive in the case of senior executives Regular communication on Group initiatives such as and the approval of the Nomination Committee in the the Worldwide Partnership Program, BRANDZ, the case of executive directors.
Any fees receivable out of such Atticus Awards, the WPP Marketing Fellowship Program appointments are retained by the individuals concerned.
Periodic reports from Sir Martin Sorrell to participants in LEAP and to the Leaders, Partners and High Environment Potential groups.
WPPs website, Group intranet site and professional Our Corporate Responsibility Policy commits us to knowledge communities.
minimise our impact on the environment.
Climate change is Formal and informal meetings at operating the most important environmental issue for our company.
Our response to climate change is important to Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is our people and our clients.
Many of the companies widely distributed across WPP and is available on our we work for are leaders on this issue.
They frequently intranet and website.
request evidence of our approach to the environment and corporate responsibility during pitches.
WPP companies Health and wellbeing are increasingly advising clients on their response to climate change in research, product development and marketing.
We aim to identify and reduce health risks, provide To do this well, we need to show leadership by reducing our a safe workplace and promote employee wellbeing.
This contributes to productivity and reduces absence We are reviewing our approach to this issue and will from work.
We focus on issues relevant to our of ce shortly be announcing a new climate change strategy for WPP.
environments, such as stress management and good practice in workstation design and use.
How we behave Corporate responsibility Energy and climate change Recycling The amount of carbon that WPP emits our carbon Our data suggests that more than half of WPP of ces footprint is about 260,000 tonnes of CO. recycle waste paper.
Other materials recycled include toner 2 The Groups total carbon footprint has been printer cartridges over a third of of ces, old computer calculated by extrapolating of ce energy and business ight equipment around a quarter and plastic almost a fifth.
data reported by our major companies.
This extrapolation We have launched a program to ensure that all covers all WPP companies excluding associates companies obsolete IT equipment from WPP companies worldwide in which we have a minority shareholding.
This represents is disposed of in an  way.
the footprint of the average number of staff employed by the Group being 77,686 people.
Supply chain WPPs carbon footprint We recognise the potential impact of our purchasing decisions on the environment and also the need to consider CO emissions tonnes 2 the labour standards associated with manufacturing in Of ce energy use 144,354 certain product sectors.
Air travel 81,733 Our corporate responsibility supply vision for WPP Other 33,913 states that: Across all of our spend, we want to do business Total 260,000 with suppliers that meet high standards on the environment Our gures have been reviewed by the Edinburgh and employment practices.
We are committed to managing Centre of Carbon Management ECCM and include all corporate responsibility risks in our supply chain, both for Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHGs in accordance with the ourselves and our clients.
We have added ethical and environmental criteria to WPPs Procurement Policy.
This includes a simple five-point Paper use questionnaire which we use during supplier selection to help us assess whether supplier companies are managing We encourage of ces to purchase paper with recycled corporate responsibility issues.
In April 2006 we held a pilot corporate responsibility In most of our larger markets, WPP procurement workshop in the UK for eight suppliers to explain our identi es preferred paper suppliers which our agencies are approach to corporate responsibility and our expectations encouraged to use.
Many of our preferred suppliers across of suppliers.
We selected suppliers that provide products our major markets now provide paper and paper products and services which we purchase for clients including print, with recycled content.
TV post production and promotions companies.
We are following up with each supplier individually to agree an action plan for improving corporate responsibility management by the end of 2007.
During 2007, we plan to hold a second supplier corporate responsibility workshop in the UK with a group of print suppliers.
How we behave WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006 How we behave Corporate responsibility Social investment For example, in 2006 two WPP agencies took part in the Global Media AIDS Initiative.
Each agency created In 2006, our social investment was worth 24.9 million a pro bono TV advertising spot to raise awareness of $45.9 million, in total, compared with 17.3 million in HIV AIDS, 25 years after the disease was first diagnosed.
This is equivalent to 0.42% of our total revenue Each advertisement tackled an issue that contributes to the meeting our annual ongoing target and 3.7% of reported spread of HIV, including unsafe sex, stigma and gender pro t before tax.
It includes 21 million worth of pro bono inequality.
The campaign was made available rights-free to work this is calculated based on the fees the organisations media outlets around the world so as to reach the widest would have paid for our work.
We also donated 3.9 audience possible.
million in cash grants to charitable causes across the world.
The value of our social investment for pro bono WPP the parent company work has increased partly due to improvements in our data collection systems.
The Company focuses its support on education, young WPP came fourth in the UK Guardian newspapers people and the arts.
In the UK, WPP supports a range Giving List 2006 based on 2005 data that ranks FTSE of organisations including: the Royal College of Art 100 companies by the value of their social investment.
annual illustration competition and Hardship Fund: two bursary awards for D&AD, the professional association for design and advertising: and the National Portrait Social investment 2001-2006 m Gallery and Natural History Museum.
We are a corporate member of the Media Trust which provides training and Pro bono work 30 communications services for the voluntary sector.
Charitable donations 25 Many senior WPP executives also give pro bono 20 advice and support.
Sir Martin Sorrell is an active 15 10 participant in programs at the following international 5 business schools: London Business School: IESE, Spain: 0 Indian Business School: Harvard Business School and 01 02 03 04 05 06 Boston University.
A donation from WPP has paid for a library to be Pro bono work 2006 % built at the Lower Basic School in Sanyang village, Gambia.
This has been stocked by books donated from across WPP Local community 30 companies.
WPP is also supporting a regional health clinic Education 10 at Medina Salaam, paying for a community nurse, the Health 38 purchase of drugs and equipment, and the installation of Environment 4 solar panels.
Arts 4 Alcohol abuse 1 Employee volunteering Other 13 Many of our people give their time and expertise as volunteers to support good causes in their local communities.
We encourage this because it bene ts the Pro bono work charity and our people.
For example, MediaCom Russias good deeds WPP companies have a history of supporting charities program supports local orphanages in Moscow.
The donation of our time and skills company and its employees contribute money, which is at no cost or minimal cost is worth much more than an used to buy childrens books, games and clothes.
This is because the work we a quarter, employees are given time to deliver the goods undertake for charities helps them recruit members, raise and spend time with the children.
The net bene t to the charity is usually many times the value of our input.
How were rewarded WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
