Babcock International Group PLC 27 Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate and Social Responsibility review Introduction The Company recognises that how it manages business risk and the impact of its operations on the environment and on the heath and safety of its employees and others is fundamental to its success and the value of the group.
Winning bids for contracts is our main value driver.
In large part that success depends upon our being a company with whom our customers and partners want to do business and for whom our employees want to work.
This places a premium on our reputation, our performance, our approach to health, safety and environmental matters and our ethical conduct.
Overview The Board addresses these matters in various ways.
When evaluating projects the Board considers these matters at a strategic level to the extent that they are relevant to the project.
Risk management process: Babcocks risk management process is described in more detail in the corporate governance report on pages 31 and 32.
It looks at a wide range of risks that could have short-or long-term implications for particular businesses or the group as a whole.
The risks reviewed, directly or indirectly, encompass social, environmental and ethical matters.
The process is now well established as part of group management practice, and named individuals take responsibility for particular risks.
The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, regularly reviews the process itself as well as particular major risks and invites internal and external auditors to comment on the process.
Policies: there are group-wide and divisional policies covering employment issues, health, safety and environmental matters and ethical conduct.
Bonus schemes include requirements for acceptable health and safety performance.
We engage with our stakeholders.
Most of our businesses have a customer base made up of a few, large customers.
We maintain a continuous dialogue with them that will cover social, environmental and ethical matters relevant to their operations.
We cultivate open and constructive relationships with relevant regulatory bodies, including the Health and Safety Executive and environmental protection agencies.
We participate in community initiatives at both a local and national level.
We seek an open and honest dialogue with our employees.
We seek to play an important role in market developments relevant to our businesses.
Health and safety Health and safety is addressed within the Business review.
The environment The environment is addressed within the Business review.
Ethical conduct and whistle-blowing We insist on the highest standards of honesty and integrity in all aspects of our business.
A strict ethical policy, and guidance on business dealings, which we believe complies with international standards, is issued to relevant group employees.
Employees are required to avoid conflicts of interest regarding group business, to act lawfully and ethically and to communicate non-compliance issues of which they become aware.
We have a group-wide arrangement for employees to communicate concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters.
An independent company is retained to provide a confidential telephone hotline service.
Employees have the number of this service and it is advertised on notice boards.
The service allows an employee to leave a recorded message, which may be anonymous if they wish.
The message is relayed as soon as possible, usually within 24 hours, to senior group management in group head office who will ensure the matter is followed up and, if appropriate, reported to the Board.
A reply can be provided to the employee via the service by means of a recorded response.
Employees Having high quality, suitably trained and motivated management is a key objective.
The past year has seen the launch of the Babcock Academy in conjunction with the University of Strathclyde Business School.
Our senior management team has been through the Academy and our middle management teams are also attending.
The Academy has been designed to encourage development of tools and ideas that we believe will be valuable to the continued growth of the group and to ensure that we share a common business language across our operations.
The Academy courses cover strategic planning, financial matters, leadership, human resources and project management.
Our divisional businesses continue to supplement this training with business-specific training through their own programmes.
For instance, several of our businesses have in the past year been implementing behavioural safety training programmes.
We are also committed to attracting talented people into the group.
We have developed graduate development programmes to attract innovative and enthusiastic young people, and we have a specialist recruitment internet site through which we have been able to attract high calibre candidates.
We have also developed skills retention programmes and flexible working patterns in order to retain valued employees.
We continue to develop our skills in the successful integration of employees who transfer to us as a result of contract wins.
This gives us what we consider to be an enviable skills base that enhances our contract performance and allows us to deliver flexible and reliable services to our expanding customer base.
We communicate with our employees in a variety of ways.
The BIG Picture is a group-wide publication issued several times a year that keeps employees informed of what is happening in other divisions as well as their own, and reports on significant developments for the group.
In the UK, we have a group-wide Employee Forum for Consultation and Information as a means of keeping employees informed of major developments and issues affecting the group and for hearing their views, with elected representatives attending from our UK operations.
As a group we have non-discriminatory employment policies.
Full consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and they share in the opportunities for training, career development and promotion.
If an employee becomes disabled, our objective is, wherever possible, the continued provision of suitable employment either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate training being given if necessary.
In the year ended 31 March 2006 Babcock International Group PLC employed an average of 8,391 staff worldwide, of whom approximately 91% were located in the United Kingdom.
Babcock International Group PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate and Social Responsibility Review continued Babcock in the community Our business divisions and group headquarters support a range of charitable and community projects in their local areas.
Amongst others: In South Africa, our business is involved in a training programme for previously disadvantaged children leading to qualification as equipment mechanics, with the trainees being employed in the business throughout their training and having the opportunity upon qualification to remain with the company.
It has also established a social responsibility fund to focus on health and education for the disadvantaged, and has begun by sponsoring four disadvantaged children through high school for five years.
In addition to funding their education, the business will mentor the children to help them make the social adjustment in moving from their disadvantaged backgrounds.
In Scotland, our Babcock Naval Services business has a Community Investment Group that supports the local community in education, regeneration and environmental areas.
It has made over 20 awards to a variety of community groups.
In addition to financial support, the business has been active in providing physical support to a number of groups including the Childrens Hospice Association Scotland and The Princess Royal Trust.
Apprentices from the naval base have helped refurbish offices for charitable organisations and supported workshops for school pupils and children with special needs.
The business is also on the Steering Committee of the Dunbartonshire Enterprise in Education through Business Links programme and supports Young Enterprise Programmes in local schools.
Our Babcock Engineering Services business at Rosyth sponsors a number of engineering and wider education projects with local schools.
Our Eve Group business is currently involved in a young offenders programme in conjunction with National Grid and other industry contractors.
The programme seeks to rehabilitate young offenders into society and the workplace through professional vocational training and exposure to the working environment.
P L Rogers Group Chief Executive 22 May 2006
