Sustainable Development Responsibility Partnership Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 97 Our commitment to the principles of sustainable development is integral to our strategy development framework.
Xstratas HSEC and business philosophy.
Our Mission, Business Principles and policies recognise that Assurance Programme independently responsible management of our business is necessary for the long-term success of our audits every managed operation at least strategy and will: once every three years, or more frequently, enhance Xstratas corporate reputation dependent on the sites previous audit minimise risk performance and risk profile.
help us secure access to the most talented people, the best resources and diverse and cost effective sources of capital.
Every managed site was audited in 2005, to provide a comprehensive baseline.
A total of 21 audits were carried out in 2006, including 15 sites that did not attain Xstrata publishes a separate, detailed Xstratas minimum satisfactory level Sustainability Report and reports in in 2005.
All but one achieved the accordance with Global Reporting satisfactory level with most achieving Initiative guidelines.
The report includes the good level.
The remaining site MRM further details about the issues and in Australia will be independently initiatives outlined below and is available re-audited this year.
In addition, a rapid from www.
com or as a hard copy assessment was carried out of every on request.
URS Verification Limited has Falconbridge operation through the independently assessed Xstratas integration process to assess key risks and sustainability data, performance and identify areas for immediate remediation.
reporting against the AA1000 standard A further 27 sites or complexes, including for materiality, completeness and five former Falconbridge operations, will responsiveness.
An assurance statement is be audited by the end of 2007. provided in the 2006 Sustainability Report, including a description of the scope of the Non-financial risks are integrated into assurance work and recommendations.
site, divisional, commodity business and Group risk registers and risk management HSEC Governance, Leadership programmes.
Principal risks and uncertainties and Accountability from a Group perspective are outlined on Xstratas Board HSEC Committee is pages 22 to 25 of this report.
chaired by Ian Strachan and is responsible for monitoring and assessing the Ethics effectiveness of Xstratas Group HSEC Xstratas Statement of Business Principles is strategy, policies and performance.
The available from our website and is published corporate governance report on pages separately and distributed to every employee 115 to 125 of this report, provides further and contractor in the 15 native languages details about the responsibilities and spoken by our workforce.
This core activities of the Board and its committees.
document sets out the ethical framework Employees by geography for our activities worldwide.
Following the The Group General Manager, Sustainable acquisitions made in 2006, the Statement Caribbean 5% Europe 5% Development reports directly to the of Business Principles has been reprinted South America 15% Africa 31% Group CEO.
In line with our devolved in early 2007 and distributed to every management structure, each commodity managed operation.
It is the responsibility North America 24% business is responsible for its operational of every employee and contractor to Australasia 20% performance, within Xstratas sustainable adhere to our Business Principles.
98 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Sustainable Development A confidential, toll-free whistleblowing We link a significant element of employees telephone line and e-mail address is variable reward to the performance of the provided for every country in which Xstrata Group.
Executive directors and senior operates, and is run by KPMG.
All calls and employees of the Company and its e-mails received are investigated as subsidiaries are eligible to participate at the appropriate and reported to the Head of discretion of the Remuneration Committee Internal Audit and Risk, who reports in the Xstrata Long Term Incentive Plan directly to the Board Audit Committee.
The vesting of awards and options depends upon the satisfaction of stipulated Construction materials provided by Minera Our People performance conditions.
Further details of Alumbrera, Argentina are used to develop It is Xstratas policy to communicate the LTIP and other Xstrata share schemes irrigation channels in Santa Maria and honestly with employees and encourage are set out in Note 35 to the Financial San Jos to enhance local agribusiness consultation between employees and Statements and in the Remuneration management.
No form of workplace Report on pages 126 to 139. discrimination or harassment is tolerated.
Xstrata employs approximately 43,000 We give full consideration to applications employees and long-term contractors for employment from disabled persons, globally.
The management of labour where the requirements of the job can be relations is a fundamental responsibility adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or of operational management.
Where existing employees seek to have a direct relationship between become disabled, it is Xstratas policy to our employees and line management, provide continuing employment under founded on quality leadership, effective normal terms and conditions and to communication and trust.
All employees provide training and career development are free to join a union of their choice and and promotion to disabled employees to be represented collectively and Xstratas as appropriate.
Estimations of union membership by Estimated Union Membership commodity business unit are shown in the table on this page.
Union membership Commodity business Country % of workforce Within Xstrata there are examples of Xstrata Alloys South Africa 60% various workplace relations models, Xstrata Aluminum Americas 60% including individual agreements and Xstrata Coal Australia Unavailable collective bargaining agreements, reflecting South Africa 73% the circumstances of any given site and Xstrata Copper Australia Unavailable Xstratas devolved management structure.
North America 78% Chile 84% Xstrata values diversity in its workforce and Peru 82% we seek to employ people with a varied Argentina 4% range of skills, backgrounds and Xstrata Nickel Americas 69% perspectives.
No formal diversity targets are Norway 88% in place, with the exception of South Xstrata Zinc Australia Unavailable Africa, where our businesses are actively North America 70% recruiting, training and fast-tracking black Europe 57% and female candidates to achieve targets The collection of union membership statistics in Australia is prevented through privacy laws.
set by the South African Mining Charter.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 | 99 Xstrata strives to ensure and believes that all of the Groups operations have, in general, good relations with their employees and unions.
In 2006, Xstrata appointed a Group General Manager, Human Resources who reports to the Group CEO.
The GM Human Resources is responsible for the administration of group policy on remuneration, performance appraisal, career development and succession planning, recruitment and expatriate management and for the alignment of human resources management and policy with international best practice.
Each commodity business is fully resourced to manage its human resources requirements, within the Groups policies and procedures.
operations reduced the frequency of total Kate Brimblecombe, Environmental Officer, monitoring water at Oaky Creek coal recordable injuries by 13% excluding mine, Australia In 2006, Xstrata made 204 compulsory Falconbridge, the fifth consecutive year redundancies as a result of the acquisitions of improved safety performance.
Xstrata seeks to avoid compulsory one employee lost his life at a South redundancies where possible and provides African operation in 2006 and a further all employees with assistance programmes, four fatalities have occurred in early 2007. retraining and support as appropriate.
We investigate all fatal incidents and high potential risk incidents, to implement Employee turnover is reported within the preventative measures across the Group, key performance indicators section of this and are implementing intensive fatality report, and is an indication of our success prevention programmes in our South in retaining our permanent employees.
In African operations, where the majority of 2006, turnover reduced to 5.2%, including fatal incidents have occurred.
Falconbridge from the date of acquisition.
Health Safety In 2006, the former Xstrata operations Our aim is to operate with zero injuries recorded 31 new occupational health and we believe that every incident is cases, or 58 including the Falconbridge preventable.
Our operations strive to operations from the date of acquisition.
achieve continuous improvements in These incidents consisted predominantly reducing the number of injuries sustained of noise-induced hearing loss, respiratory in the workplace.
The total recordable conditions and musculo-skeletal injuries injury frequency rate comprises lost time some of which result from challenges injuries, restricted work and medical associated with the increased average age treatment injuries and provides a more of our Australian and Canadian workforces.
comprehensive measure than focusing on Hearing conservation programmes and lost time injuries alone.
In 2006, Xstratas buy quiet programmes are in place 100 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2006 Sustainable Development at every operation and ongoing Key environmental performance indicators Xstrata Alloys due to improved reporting at programmes are under way to reduce are reported in the Business Overview and a number of sites.
Strategy section of the report.
Waste: Prevalence rates for HIV and AIDs of There were no significant or major Every managed site is required to maintain approximately 20% of our South African environmental incidents in 2006.
The an active waste management plan.
We workforce make this disease our most number of moderate level 3 incidents seek to recycle non-hazardous waste significant health issue.
increased slightly to 26 from 20 in 2005, wherever possible, reducing the waste with the majority of incidents due to sent to landfill.
Xstrata is implementing innovative HIV and stormwater discharges during tropical storms.
AIDS testing, counselling and treatment Water: programmes across its South African Climate change: Xstrata operates in a number of water operations and in local communities.
One of our most significant challenges scarce areas, including Australia, Chile and Approximately 95% of South African coal is to address climate change.
We have other Andean countries.
Comprehensive employees and contractors now know their implemented energy efficiency programmes water management studies are being HIV status, with new infections falling to a at every operation, with a particular focus completed to identify further water very low rate 0.3%.
We are also on metallurgical operations.
We seek to implementing programmes in other highactively seeks to play a leadership role in increase the proportion of water that is risk areas, such as the Dominican Republic, the research and development of clean recycled and reused on site and make to limit the impact of the disease and coal technologies, through advocacy for continuous reductions in raw water prevent new infections.
international support for technological extraction.
A number of initiatives have innovation and financial support for a been implemented in water scarce areas to Environment number of clean coal initiatives.
share water with operations with excess Xstratas operations strive to achieve water, and to integrate mine and local continuous improvements in environmental In 2006, greenhouse gas emissions CO2 community water usage more closely.
performance and seek to prevent, mitigate, equivalents increased by 10% from 2005 reduce or offset the environmental impact levels, due to increased production from Responsible closure: of our activities.
Every operation is required the commissioning of new projects, Following the acquisition of Falconbridge, to maintain an environmental management including Rolleston thermal coal, Lion Xstrata has gained a significant number of system consistent with ISO14001.
ferrochrome and the Mototolo platinum JV, closed operations.
Appropriate financial together with the acquisition of Tintaya provisions are included in all closure plans Xstrata Coppers social involvement copper.
Reporting of factors contributing to cover social, economic and programme at the Las Bambas project in Peru to greenhouse gas emissions also improved environmental issues.
is helping to improve health and nutritional levels in rural communities due to the implementation of our bespoke sustainability database in 2006.
Community Every managed operation develops a Air emissions: corporate social involvement plan in Xstratas operations seek to minimise air consultation with stakeholders, identifying emissions, in particular sulphur dioxide programmes with a tangible and SO2 from our metallurgical operations.
sustainable community benefit, in line In 2006, SO2 emissions decreased by 1% in with our corporate social involvement absolute terms compared to the previous policy.
Xstrata sets aside a minimum of year due to a combination of successful 1% of Group profit before tax to support emissions reduction initiatives and lower community initiatives.
In 2006, Xstrata production of lead, partly offset by an set aside over $49 million increase in SO2 emissions reported by
