Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities to its shareholders, the people it employs, its customers and suppliers, the wider community and the environment.
Highlights of our progress and performance capability model and this, in conjunction Monitoring our performance We monitor our CR performance through across all areas of our social, ethical and with our global aspirations, will require sector benchmarking.
In 2006 BAE Systems environmental responsibilities during 2006 us to align both culture and capabilities maintained its position in both the Dow are detailed below.
Further information to take the Group forward.
Jones Sustainability World Index and the and supporting data can be found in Governance of CR pan-European Dow Jones STOXX our Corporate Responsibility Report or The board of directors has overall Sustainability Index.
responsibility for the governance of Our total score for 2006 was 77%, this Strategy and direction CR matters within the Group.
Specific being the highest score reached in our Corporate Responsibility CR in BAE Systems responsibility has been assigned to the specific industry sector and considerably is based on good business practice and CR Committee of the Board.
All members higher than the sector average of 47%.
Our CR framework of this Committee are non-executive has been developed through analysis of directors and comprise Peter Weinberg, The total score is an average of three Professor Sue Birley, Sir Nigel Rudd and potential risk to our business, key stakeholder dimension scores see below.
interest and feedback, and the extension and evaluation of existing practices.
Economic Dimension 69% Reputation is vital to the long-term sustainability of all companies.
The CR Over the last four years we have progressed Environmental Dimension 85% Committee is central to the Boards oversight from communicating existing policies and Social Dimension 80% of the critical non-financial issues that are practices to the use of the external reporting fundamental to the Groups reputation.
process and stakeholder feedback so as to The Committee is responsible for reviewing evaluate the effectiveness and subsequent and monitoring the processes the Group development of those processes.
uses to manage social, environmental and A sustainable CR agenda must be based ethical risk, as well as supporting the Board With the continued growth of our US business upon both the communication and effective in the approval of strategy and policy in we also monitor our performance within deployment of our policies and practices as this area.
the Pacific Sustainability Index, which a means of challenging the Group to ensure analyses and ranks the environmental and The Committee is supported by the Group we are delivering on our commitment to high sustainability reporting of all the companies Legal Director, Audit Director, Group HR performance and continual improvement, in the aerospace and defence sector listed Director and Director of Corporate consistent with Group strategy, which is on the Fortune Global 500 and Fortune 1000 Responsibility.
to be the premier global defence and list.
BAE Systems was ranked third of the aerospace company.
Non-financial metrics 18 companies in that sector.
The Board recognises its responsibilities The implication of this global agenda on Roberts Environmental Center Pacific to the Groups shareholders, employees, our CR strategy is to broaden the number Sustainability Index customers and suppliers, the wider community of companies against which we benchmark BAE Systems Industry and the environment.
The indicators on page score average our performance and to look wider than % score % 36 are used by the Board to monitor the local impacts to develop our position on Environmental Intent 80 46 application of mandated policies and global issues.
Environmental Reporting 69 31 procedures with the objective of meeting Key development areas for 2007 concern Environmental Performance 19 8 the Groups responsibilities in these areas.
ethics, safety and environment and their Social Intent 89 43 Commentary on progress against these impact on our reputation.
This will include Social Reporting 65 31 indicators is summarised on pages 37 to 39 our response to climate change and a more Social Performance 41 11 and a full analysis of the data is included formal approach to product stewardship.
Overall Score 67 32 in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
The UK defence sector is evolving from being product orientated to a through-life www.
com 35 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Operating and financial re Operating and financial revie view w Corporate responsibility continued Key performance indicators KPIs We use a range of non-financial performance indicators to measure the Groups performance over time.
This particularly affects the safety risk profile and use of resources.
We will be aiming to reduce the impact of each individual business year on year.
2 recalculated to include 2005 acquisitions 3 2003 and 2004 figures do not include data for Saudi Arabia Employee opinion survey Positive changes top 4 % Change favourable from Question 2006 2004 I have access to the training I need to be productive in my current position 68 10 I have confidence in the job being done by the senior management of BAE Systems 52 9 I would recommend BAE Systems to others as a good place to work 68 6 I understand how my job contributes to my Business Unit Line of business in achieving its business plan 84 6 Negative changes worst 4 % Change favourable from Question 2006 2004 Poor individual performance issues are addressed effectively where I work 33 -3 I am supported and encouraged to make my own decisions 74 -3 In my team we get regular feedback on how satisfied customers are with the work we perform 54 -2 My immediate manager team leader lets me know how I am doing on an ongoing basis 56 -2 36 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 senior female managers represented the Training and development Workplace Group at events such as the International In the UK employees completed 38,000 The Group employs 79,000 people in Women of Excellence and the International e-learning courses equating to 24,000 its wholly owned businesses across five Womens Forum.
Junior female employees hours of online training time.
Many courses continents, the majority being based in the also attended these events as participants.
are run in partnership with colleges and UK and the US, with a significant presence An outcome of this representation was the universities.
In the US we have invested in Australia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa in employee development and recent initiative to establish a womens network at and Sweden.
executive appointments from within our our Submarines site at Barrow in the UK as leadership ranks demonstrate career growth a pilot to assess the potential to develop To deliver the products and services our opportunities.
Two new CEO-sponsored further network groups elsewhere across customers require we need to attract and leadership programmes were introduced the business.
We do in 2006 and were delivered to more than this with a focus on a high performance A workshop was held with senior female 600 executives in the US and UK.
culture which, in addition to setting out managers from the UK Ministry of Defence to goals and objectives, also defines the Employee engagement discuss barriers to gender progression within behaviours we expect of our employees.
In 2006, more than 45,000 employees the respective organisations and to explore took part in our bi-annual global Employee mutual areas to address.
Overall the results In 2006 two workplace-related objectives The Group sponsors science education events were encouraging with clear improvement were set as part of the leadership objectives targeted at young women including the UK reported against 2004 performance.
for the Groups senior executives other CR- 2006 Women Into Science and Engineering related leadership objectives are discussed The greatest areas of improvement were WISE event for 13-14-year-old girls.
in context in subsequent sections.
in career development and rewards, trust Respect at work in leadership and engagement.
The most Reflect gender diversity on leading university 97% of employee grievances in the UK negative score related to employee courses in our choice of graduate trainees were resolved at a local level during 2006. perceptions as to how poor performers through a focused recruitment plan.
Only one complaint required a corporate are managed.
While this reflects the high level investigation under the Groups Respect Resolve 75% of employee grievances in standards our employees expect, it is an at Work policy.
This indicated improved the UK at local level i. e. drive solutions issue of concern which the Groups Executive management and resolution of issues at to employee issues through effective Committee has committed to improve in a local level.
In the UK, we have continued local management.
2007 see table on page 36. to work closely with the DTI and AMICUS on Progress 2007 Objectives the Dignity At Work partnership.
This year The specific CR objectives agreed by the Diversity the partnership launched research into Board for the Chief Executive and Groups We met our target to recruit at least an the impact of bullying in the workplace and Executive Committee for 2007 are: equal proportion of female graduates to that hosted several high-profile events to raise seeking a career in engineering.
Over the awareness of this important issue.
In each of the home markets, move year, 12% of our UK and 20% of our US towards establishing a workforce reflective Employee recognition engineering graduate recruits were women.
of the national average in terms of gender The Group rewards employee excellence mix and ethnic diversity, taking into account Our Group HR Director, Alastair Imrie, is and innovation through the Chairmans variations by region and industrial sector.
our senior Gender Champion with a remit Awards Scheme.
Over 3,000 nominations to raise awareness of potential barriers to 85% of employee grievances under the were received for 2006, recognising over the career progress of women in the Group UK Respect at Work policy to be resolved 17,000 employees from around the world.
and to identify ways to address those through local discussion without escalation From those, 6 Gold, 54 Silver and over potential barriers.
to the corporate investigation process.
100 Bronze awards were awarded across Recognising that the Groups senior the three categories of Innovation, leadership plays a significant role in Transferring Best Practice, and Enhancing influencing behaviours, a number of our Customer Performance.
Insyte participated in the Women Into Science Naval Ships held Learning at Work Days at our Filton and Engineering WISE scheme.
The scheme aims and Govan sites where employees were given health to promote science, engineering, technology SET advice, learned new skills and were encouraged to and construction as suitable career choices for girls take up new hobbies.
They also launched an Everyday Skills programme which offers courses on basic IT, communication, literacy and numeracy.
com 37 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility continued all UK employees covering: What is Business These covered a variety of topics, but Ethics Ethics and Why is it Important to Me?, primarily concerned workplace issues and We are committed to meeting the highest Why Following the Law is not Enough, and acceptable IT Use policy.
In the US, there ethical standards in our relationships Examples of Ethics in the Workplace.
were 348 formal enquiries including 186 with others.
We will not tolerate unethical requiring formal investigation to ethics Employees must complete a test at the behaviour or attempts to improperly influence officers via our helpline, post, e-mail or end of the course to measure understanding the decisions of customers or suppliers.
visits to the ethics office.
of the issues raised during the training.
Unethical behaviour is wrong, could lead A DVD and classroom training package 50 employees were dismissed for reasons to loss of business, seriously damage our was used for employees who did not have relating to unethical behaviour during 2006. reputation and leave the Group and its ready access to a computer.
Both training Reasons for dismissal included misuse of employees open to criminal sanction.
packages were introduced and endorsed company IT, fraud and threatening behaviour.
2006 Objectives by our Chief Executive.
Working with others In 2006 two objectives specifically By the end of 2006 80% of UK employees In July 2006 BAE Systems and other UK relating to ethics were set within the had successfully completed the training.
defence companies established the UK leadership objectives.
Plans are in place to ensure the remaining Defence Industry Anti-corruption Forum, Meet the standards defined in our internal 20% complete the training early in 2007.
We to share good practice on ethics and assurance statement for ethical issues, missed our target to also train all employees anti-corruption programmes.
Members of the minimum acceptable score within in Australia during 2006 but intend to roll out the Forum met twice in 2006 and heard from our assurance process is confirmation the training to all employees in Australia, a range of speakers including the Institute of compliance with all applicable laws Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Sweden of Business Ethics, ICC UK, Transparency and standards.
during 2007. International UK and law firms, Linklaters and Bryan Cave LLP.
Develop, pilot and roll out ethics training In the US, all employees completed refresher to all employees in the UK and Australia.
training on our workplace harassment, ethics In the US we are a signatory to the Defense policies, and ethical decision making.
All Industry Initiative on Ethics and Business Progress employees receive annual training on ethicsConduct, and a sponsoring partner of the Meeting our standards related topics.
This year all employees Ethics and Compliance Officers Association.
The Group has training and awareness viewed a new ethics video called Playing With programmes to ensure employees understand 2007 Objectives Fire: Abuse and Intimidation in the Workplace.
our policies and the standards expected The specific CR objectives agreed by the of them.
We held our annual conference for Board for the Chief Executive and Groups BAE Systems Ethics Officers in Baltimore, Executive Committee for 2007 are: We provide training on our anti-bribery US.
More than 50 participants from the US, programme to managers from marketing, Initial ethics training to be completed by the UK and Sweden were joined by speakers commercial, procurement, finance, customer new employees within one month of joining from the US Department of Defense and the support and other functions.
Experts led training the training, employees are required to sign sessions on ethics investigations and Initial ethics training to be implemented for a statement confirming they will comply with regulations on harassment and violence all employees within three months of our policies and will report any issues of in the workplace.
the completion date of any acquisition.
This training is mandatory for all senior employees and for those employees During 2006 we also held ethics training A survey to be undertaken to evaluate involved in dealings with marketing advisers.
for the Board and Executive Committee, effectiveness of the 2006 UK Ethics debating and agreeing the role of leadership training package with implementation Awareness and training in ensuring high ethical standards throughout of agreed corrective actions.
A survey of UK employees undertaken in the Group.
2005 showed that although our employees regard the Group as ethical, awareness of Monitoring and compliance our ethical standards and helpline was low.
In 2006, 62 enquiries were made to our UK In 2006 we introduced new online training for ethics helpline and worldwide e-mail address.
Our ethical principles are: Accountability: We are personally answerable for our conduct and actions Honesty: There is no substitute for the truth Integrity: We say what we do, we do what we say Openness: When questions are asked, we will be frank and straightforward in our answers Respect: We value and treat each individual with dignity and thoughtfulness 38 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Compared with 2005 both the overall Environment Safety, health and environment number of accidents and the number of The environment data shown on page 36 The health and safety of our employees, serious accidents decreased in 2006. reflects the numerous changes to our contractors and engagement with the The majority of our businesses continue to business and activity over the last four communities around our facilities is of demonstrate improvements i. e. reductions years.
We monitor trends at an individual primary importance to BAE Systems.
in the days lost to work-related injuries site level and continue to see reductions indicating both a reduction in the number in both water and energy consumption.
We recognise the risks associated with the of accidents and length of time for variety of operations we conduct and aim to The overall data now includes the former rehabilitation back into the workplace.
The minimise these as far as possible.
All sites United Defense businesses and these increase indicated in the table on page 36 are required to comply with our safety, health account for the increases in consumption.
reflects the inclusion of a full year of data for and environment policy and to demonstrate Whilst the use of natural resources is driven our US Ship Repair business and does not continual improvement in performance by the growth of our business we remain therefore indicate a significant deterioration.
though the setting of targets.
Performance committed to delivering ongoing operational The commitments made as part of the UK is reviewed through our business assurance efficiencies and improvements in this area.
governments Revitalising Health & Safety processes and overseen by the Executive Further breakdown and explanation of our initiative have been exceeded: we have environmental data for our main operating Committee and the CR Committee on behalf already met targets for performance.
regions are provided in our full CR Report.
of the board of directors.
Partnership with the UK HSE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Our environment policy and framework We continued our partnership project with the WEEE Directive is focused on preventing or controlling UK HSE and other large UK manufacturers.
The WEEE Directive became effective in environmental impacts and minimising waste The project, named Large Organisation January 2007 requiring producers of certain or consumption when related to energy and Partnership Pilot LOPPs, aims to raise electronic equipment to account for end of water.
All our major manufacturing sites are safety standards in UK manufacturing sites.
During 2006 we conducted certified to the international environmental reviews to assess the impact of this In 2006 a joint team of BAE Systems management standard ISO 14001.
Directive and put in place measures to managers, trade union safety representatives 2006 Objectives monitor and manage the issue going forward.
and the HSE developed key performance We recognise the role of leadership in indicators KPIs in six areas: work at height: 2007 Objectives driving high standards of safety, health and control of contractors: hand-arm vibration: The specific CR objectives agreed by the environment performance and, accordingly, work in confined spaces: slips and trips: Board for the Chief Executive and Groups a number of leadership objectives in 2006 and manual handling.
Executive Committee for 2007 are: related to this area.
The KPIs are used by our businesses to To achieve an improved position relative Meet our safety, health and environment monitor and improve performance through to 2006. targets performance improvement criteria an audit programme.
Eight of our UK sites were audited against the relevant topic appropriate to risk established for each Establish, where practical, appropriate standard during 2006.
industry benchmarks for each line of Improvement actions were put in place and business to monitor performance and Exceed the safety performance a follow-up audit confirmed that corrective establish targets to move towards best commitments made to the UK Health actions had been implemented.
We are communicating the output of these Group performance lost days metric to Progress audits to all UK businesses through news be better than relevant industry average.
Targets were set against individual business bulletins, office and workshop talks and a Continue to achieve an improvement issues and all businesses included safety, training DVD.
Employees can also access the year on year in injuries lost working time.
health and environment in their quarterly information on our LOPPs website.
The overall performance continue to use the audit programme as part on safety reflects the good performance of our drive for high performance across all against those targets.
areas of safety, health and environment.
Our Customer Solutions & Support Electronics & Integrated Systems is business group this year achieved the working with the US Federal Transit international health and safety standard Administration FTA to develop OHSAS 18001 for all its UK businesses.
hydrogen fuel cell technology for city New safety, health and environment SHE buses.
Fuel cells generate electricity passport training was introduced for cleanly and quietly, like a battery.
all employees, as well as SHE training Fuelled by hydrogen, their only byspecifically for senior executives.
A products are water and heat, so they distance learning health and safety dont contribute to climate change.
course was also put in place for our Saudi employees.
com 39 39 39 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility continued BAE Systems has made a commitment to The Saudi-British sports co-operation Education and community be one of the corporate champions behind programme, which began in 1987, had Education, specifically in the fields of science the British Councils UK India Education & its most active year to date in 2006.
This and engineering, is extremely important to Research Initiative.
The Initiative, which was BAE Systems managed project is geared to the future sustainability of our business.
launched last year by the Prime Minister, the raising of standards and the introduction is designed to strengthen education and of new sports, and takes as a main aim The number of students enrolling in business links between the UK and India.
the education of administrators, medical engineering and technology courses has As part of our commitment we will be practitioners, coaches and others who will fallen considerably in recent years.
We are supporting links between schools in Brough stimulate the development of the sector.
concerned that in the future there will be too in the UK with Bangalore in India, an few candidates with the skills our business, Australia exchange of best practice in vocational and the engineering sector in general, needs.
In Australia, BAE Systems supports a wide training and an innovative research project We therefore invest worldwide in a range of range of school and university programmes, on Unmanned Aircraft Vehicles linking programmes which support and encourage offering sponsorship and mentoring Leicester University with the Indian Institute young people into science and engineering.
programmes, with the aim of inspiring young of Science at Bangalore.
people to become involved in engineering.
We also have a structured programme United States These projects included sponsorship of for support to charities and encourage our We sponsor a number of programmes to South Australias Engineering Week and employees to support their local communities support science and technology across Super Science Sunday, involvement with through fundraising and volunteering.
Our scholarships to colleges and the Doxa Youth Foundation mentoring Education universities have enabled hundreds of programme: and the support for the In Australia, Saudi Arabia, the UK and students to take technical courses.
Young Achievement Australia Business the US we run an education programme Skills Programme.
In 2006 this support included: providing to encourage young people at all stages project challenges and mentors to Penn Community of their education to take an interest in States Learning Factory an innovative and Employee involvement science and technology.
nationally recognised programme that has In the 18 months to September 2006, our United Kingdom multi-disciplinary student teams working on global employee fundraising scheme, Charity Over 350 employees known as ambassadors industry-sponsored projects: sponsorship Challenge, raised 8m.
This was donated visit schools to help with engineering projects of Science and Technology Way at Maryland primarily to the Stroke Association in the UK, and to give careers advice.
Day an open house showcase held at the the National Heart Foundation in Australia University of Maryland: and the sponsorship and The American Cancer Society in the Our schools road show is designed to of the annual Rube Goldberg Machine US.
Over the same period, employees encourage children to think about a career Contest held at Purdue University.
volunteered 10,500 days of their own time.
in engineering before making subject choices Our partner charities for the next 18-month at 14.
The 2006 road show visited 100 Saudi Arabia campaign will be Macmillan Cancer Support schools, involving 10,000 children aged 9 BAE Systems long association with to 13 in performances and workshops.
In in the UK, the Australian Cancer Council academia from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 2006 our education programme was awarded and the Alzheimers Association in the US.
has continued with the funding of research a Business in the Community Big Tick carried out by Saudi lecturers in the UK.
Company giving Award and was a finalist in the Opportunity In 2006 our total global community Following completion of the four-year Now Awards.
This figure Saudi government campaign to establish We participated in Enterprise Week 2006 includes cash and in-kind donations as national vocational skill standards, backed delivering a schools road show performance well as our direct support for education.
by BAE Systems, the Group sponsored a at an Enterprise in Education conference.
conference on the next round of challenges We are a member of the London We have strategic partnerships with facing those in the vocational training Benchmarking Group LBG and use their 20 colleges and universities to support establishment in meeting the needs of agreed methodology to evaluate our annual the Saudi labour market.
research and improve graduate recruitment.
Many remote communities in the Platform Solutions is helping to prepare Peruvian Amazon have no access to young people for life after school by medical services.
Five years ago, Naval partnering with the Medway Education Ships employees converted a former Business Partnership MEBP, a charity Royal Navy boat into the Amazon Hope, working to improve the links between a floating hospital, which extended a schools and businesses.
Our employees lifeline to these communities.
In 2006, donate money and time and this year Submarines employees helped create 11 employees mentored students a sister medical vessel for the region.
40 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 22781 BAE001 p35 41. qxd:Layout 1 14 3 07 15:26 Page 41 Corporate governance Contents 42 Board of directors 44 Corporate governance 51 Remuneration report 66 Directors report 68 Statement of directors responsibilities www.
