Corporate responsibility Balfour Beatty has been formally reporting its safety, environmental and Specific policies social performance through independently audited reports since 2001.
Balfour Beatty has clearly-stated policies for risk management, safety, health, environment, human rights, drugs and alcohol, equal opportunities and During that time, the Group has very substantially reduced its accident whistle-blowing.
Within this framework, operating companies are required frequency rate, greatly improved the management of its environmental to develop policies and practices relevant to their particular circumstances.
impacts and made significant progress in all aspects of corporate citizenship.
Management systems This progress was recognised when the Company won the top award for The Group-wide risk management framework provides a common system for corporate social responsibility in 2006s Quality in Construction awards.
reporting and escalating risks of all types.
Each operating company, division and project is subject to rigorous risk analysis, evaluation and management.
Governance and management Major risks are reviewed regularly at senior management levels.
The Board Safety and health issues are reviewed by the Group Health and Safety Council, The Balfour Beatty Board sets policy and takes responsibility for the with each main segment of the business having its own equivalent body.
Groups performance in safety, health, the environment, business ethics, Balfour Beatty requires all its operating companies to have formal safety risk management, human rights and other social issues.
In early 2001, management systems, which are subject to external audit.
the Business Practices Committee of the Board was established to review Environmental issues are reviewed at the Environmental Strategy Group policy, practice and performance in these areas.
comprised of representatives of the operating companies under the The Committee, which comprises non-executive Directors under the chairmanship of the director of Safety, Health and the Environment.
Chairmanship of Sir David John, receives reports from the Chief Executive Environmental performance is audited regularly and Group-wide statistics and from the director of Safety, Health and the Environment.
It meets four are collated in respect of the Groups major environmental impacts.
Guiding principles Safety Balfour Beatty first produced a coherent set of Company Principles in 1986.
Since then, they have been regularly reviewed and updated, most recently The Groups stated aim is to operate in such a way as to have zero fatalities, in 2006. zero permanent disabling injuries and to be accident free overall.
Two companion codes were also developed at that time.
Business Conduct Over recent years, the Group has made good progress in reducing accidents.
Guidelines explains to all employees what is expected of them in terms In 2006, its Accident Frequency Rate was reduced by 24%, the fourth of behaviour, procedures and attitudes.
In 2007, all employees will receive consecutive year of improvement, and stood at 0.25 reportable accidents on-line training in respect of these guidelines.
This has been achieved despite very significant increases in numbers employed.
The Groups safety statistics Stakeholder Codes of Practice sets key operating principles and are subject to independent external audit.
minimum standards for the Groups operating companies when engaging with employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
Performance is benchmarked against industry norms in the UK, Germany, US and Hong Kong.
The Groups performance compares favourably with these Together, these documents constitute a comprehensive system of external benchmarks.
Quality in construction Guiding principles In 2006, Balfour Beatty received the Quality in Construction award for the best Corporate Social Responsibility Policies and Programme The Group has a comprehensive in the sector.
42 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business Regrettably, there were eight fatalities during the year, all outside the UK.
Validation and external audit of 2006 data will not be complete until after the Significant effort is being made to improve safety management standards date of publication of this report and data will appear on the Balfour Beatty in the Groups overseas operations to match the high standards that are website in May.
Resource usage All fatalities and serious incidents are fully investigated and reviewed at There is an increasingly systematic focus on sourcing of materials, usage of senior management level.
Root cause analyses are undertaken and logged non-renewable resources, and evaluating and managing the Groups supply to enable detection of system causes, and for appropriate programmes to chain in respect of environmental issues.
Waste The construction process typically generates large volumes of waste.
Health Over the last five years, Balfour Beatty has raised the awareness of this problem across the business, and has improved its measurement The rigorous standards which the Group applies to safety management are of construction waste aided by the use of national waste contractors increasingly now being applied to occupational health.
Occupational ill-health who are able to provide accurate data on waste volumes and recycling.
is often the result of prolonged exposure to substance, condition, process or activity and is not, therefore, easily tractable in the short term.
The Group has significantly reduced waste generated on site down 30% per million net sales value in the UK in 2005, compared with 2004, and has The Groups approach is to identify the potential causes of ill-health and seriously increased the amount of waste sent for recycling and its use of develop specific policies and programmes for each one.
For example, in the UK in 2005 the Group recycled 27% exist for hand-arm vibration syndrome, disorders arising from manual handling, more metals, 44% more plastics, and 10 times more packaging than in 2004. alcohol and drug abuse, and substances hazardous to health.
The Group is improving its programmes for stress.
Energy usage Balfour Beatty has reduced its relative contribution to global warming by 28% over the period 2002-2005.
The Group invests in new and Environment emerging technologies for vehicle emission reduction.
Most particularly, Balfour Beatty works systematically to prevent negative environmental impact significant improvements have been achieved by the use of GPS and vehicle from its activities and to improve its environmental performance at every tracking systems in more economical vehicle routeing.
The Groups approach is structured and risk based, with formal Water consumption environmental management systems, independently audited.
It continues to The Groups consumption of water, up by 90% in 2005, is increasing in take the necessary steps to embed environmental management systems into line with the rapid growth in the incidence of contract vehicle cleaning and the business both in the UK and overseas.
increased availability of meter readings to replace estimates.
The Group is The progress made in improving the Groups environmental performance over seeking ways to improve the efficiency of its water consumption.
recent years is illustrated by improving scores and league table positions Environmentally sensitive areas in the Business in the Community environment index.
The Group has extended its range of key indicators to include positive The Group reviews and maintains progress by monitoring trends and and negative effects on environmentally sensitive sites and is developing performance in five specific areas.
These are energy use and global warming: its thinking on biodiversity.
All operating companies have reviewed their resource usage: waste and recycling: water consumption: and impact on responsibilities for contaminated land.
Archaeological aspects of sites are  areas.
The robustness of the Groups environmental explored thoroughly before commencement of use.
management systems, is also measured.
Business in the Community environment index UK timber spend Score % % of timber purchased from Forest Stewardship Council sources 2005 88 % of timber purchased from all certified sources 70% 2004 82 60% 50% 2003 77 40% 30% 2002 60 20% 10% 2001 45 2002 2003 2004 2005 43 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility continued Social performance Customers Most of the Groups operating companies run regular customer attitude Balfour Beattys business is in the creation and improvement of social and opinion surveys.
A substantial proportion of the Groups business is capital schools, hospitals, transport systems, buildings for example.
conducted with organisations with which its operating companies have In so doing it makes a substantial contribution to society.
The following key principles guide Balfour Beattys approach to managing Suppliers its community and wider social responsibilities beyond safety, health and An increasing proportion of the Groups supply base is retained in long-term the environment.
These are: relationships based on the compatibility of their values and behaviour as well to engage, positively, with all its stakeholders and to answer to them as product quality and price.
The Group has developed and implemented a for its policies and programmes: Supply Chain Environmental Risk and Impact Grading Tool to assess supply chain risks.
to engage fully with the communities and individuals directly impacted by its project work and to keep them appropriately informed of progress Government and regulators and any issues which might affect them: and Over half of Balfour Beattys work is carried out for governments.
The Group seeks active and positive relationships with governments, their officers and to add value to its work in creating and caring for infrastructure advisers and relevant industry regulators to ensure its policies and activities assets by delivering added community benefits and offering opportunity align with their key requirements.
Communities and our projects It is Balfour Beattys policy that all of its major projects have a dedicated Stakeholder engagement community relations team.
Typically, major projects will be preceded by Employees exhibitions, and regular newsletters and letter drops will keep interested There is a comprehensive corporate and operating company-based parties informed at key project milestones.
There will be regular visits to communications programme aimed at ensuring that all employees have access schools and other local institutions.
Key stakeholders are offered direct access to the information they need.
Most operating companies conduct regular and, when necessary, there will be liaison with local police and other employee attitude and opinion surveys.
In 2007, the first Group-wide survey emergency services, and help lines.
of employee opinion is planned.
The Group has an active whistle-blowing policy through which eight issues were raised in 2006 14 in 2005.
Building better communities The Groups equal opportunities performance is measured annually.
In 2006, Balfour Beatty seeks to enhance the communities impacted by its operating 17% of employees were women and 6.2% were of ethnic minority origin.
For example: These statistics are considerably improved from when measurement first took place in 1999.
At graduate intake level, the proportion of women Stoke Football Action is 23% and of ethnic minorities is 7%.
Over 100,000 of funding and substantial management support from Balfour Beatty has unlocked public sector funds to create a 320,000 Shareholders three-year football coaching programme in Stoke, where Balfour Beatty Balfour Beatty runs an active shareholder engagement programme involving is the PPP schools concession company.
This programme has already proved regular roadshows and one-to-one meetings.
During 2006, senior executives extremely effective in reducing vandalism and other anti-social behaviour held over 100 meetings with shareholders, representing, in aggregate, amongst pupils at risk of social exclusion.
The programme was officially approximately 60% of the issued ordinary share capital.
All financial launched by Richard Caborn, Minister for Sport, in December 2006. presentations are webcast in order to ensure that they are accessible to all shareholder groups, and other interested parties.
1 2 44 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our business Groundwork UK Balfour Beatty is working on a number of projects with the network of trusts and volunteer organisations which make up Groundwork UK.
These projects, which are all close to long-term local Balfour Beatty work sites or completed PPP projects are aimed at improving local amenities and facilities for local people.
For example, the Group has helped to create new footpath access to the PPP hospital in Blackburn, renovated an old castle for educational purposes close to the PPP hospital in Birmingham and has refurbished and upgraded a childrens play area close to the site of Pinderfields Hospital where Balfour Beatty Capital is preferred bidder.
London Youth Games 3 As the 2006 and 2007 corporate partner to the London Youth Games, in which over 20,000 London school children participate every year, Balfour Beatty is 1 Rt Hon Richard Caborn MP, Minister for 3 Balfour Beatty is a founding sponsor of the Sport opens the Groups football coaching Princes Trust scheme to offer training and improving sporting facilities and encouraging sporting achievement amongst programme in Stoke-on-Trent.
young people across the capital, where a significant proportion of the Groups 2 Rt Hon Tessa Jowell MP, Secretary of State infrastructure work is conducted.
Balfour Beatty is also providing a sports for Culture, Media and Sport opens the 2006 development grant for all the London boroughs to accelerate investment London Youth Games.
in new and improved sporting facilities.
Building better lives Get Into Construction In pursuing its business objectives, Balfour Beatty offers opportunity to disadvantaged individuals.
The Group is a founding sponsor of the Princes Trust initiative Get Into Construction which offers training and employment in the construction industry to disadvantaged young people.
Following a successful pilot exercise in 2006, 23 courses are planned for 2007 across the UK.
NCH The Groups charity of the year for 2007 and 2008 is NCH, the nationwide childrens charity.
In addition to its corporate donations, Balfour Beatty offers matched funding to groups or individual employees engaged in fundraising for the charity.
In 2005 and 2006, Balfour Beatty raised over 200,000 for its previous charity of the year, the Marie Curie Foundation.
Employment of released offenders Working in conjunction with one of its largest customers, National Grid plc, Balfour Beatty offers convicted offenders due to be released back into the community, the chance to be trained and employed in its infrastructure refurbishment and upgrade work on the gas and electricity networks.
Being able to pursue a specific job opportunity while still detained significantly increases the chances of a successful re-entry into society and decreases the likelihood of recidivism.
To see our full Corporate Responsibility report visit: www.
co. uk bbeatty responsibility 45 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2006
