36 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 graingertargets corporate social responsibility I am pleased to report that CSR is gathering momentum within The following symbol has been used throughout Grainger, and this year we have worked hard to achieve our this section to cross-reference targets.
Our corporate culture is very dynamic and go-getting detailed information on the company website at which has enabled us to embrace some of the challenges of CSR www.
co. uk with gusto and creativity.
I believe this responsiveness to change will increasingly be necessary in rapidly changing global markets, and in the face of new business risks such as climate change.
In 2006, Grainger developed a corporate environmental policy and we now look forward to further formalising our environmental commitments across areas of significant impact.
We have reviewed and extended our community 1 0% ACHIEVED 1 50% ACHIEVED investment practices, both through active employment programmes run in 4 75% ACHIEVED conjunction with BiTC, and through our charitable activities.
During the year, we also developed our new Employee Charter and launched an award-winning Payroll Giving scheme that has already been a tremendous success.
Following 100% ACHIEVED 15 a comprehensive Health and Safety H&S review across all of our activities, we now have robust procedures in place to manage, measure, monitor and reduce H&S incidents across the entire business.
We have also continued to improve our customer service quality through extensive training of property managers, and issued clear concise guidance to our tenants on a variety of issues, including facilitating grant applications for them to improve heating and insulation standards in their homes.
These are just some of the areas that we have been working on in the past year.
This report summarises our achievements against our 2006 CSR targets, structured under our seven longer-term CSR objectives reviewed and updated The above chart indicates the in 2005.
It also includes a number of quantitative measures of our performance progress that Grainger Trust made against each objective, and thereby further improves our transparency on against its CSR targets in 2005 06.
It is encouraging that, in our first year social and environmental issues.
of ofcial CSR target-setting, we fully achieved over 70% of our targets, Of course, we recognise that we still have more to learn, and we continue with just one target unprogressed to have ideas to further improve our business performance and align it with at year end.
A detailed review of progress against individual targets, the values underpinning CSR.
We look forward to continuing our efforts over carried out by our CSR advisors.
Upstream, is on our website.
Rupert J. Dickinson Chief executive 37 objective1 Encourage staff to contribute to, and share in, the success of the company through their own ideas and ongoing professional development, whilst supporting them to maintain a healthy balance between home and work commitments.
In Autumn 2005, Grainger Trust participated in the Times 100 Best Companies to work for Survey.
Although not making the top 100, Grainger scored well across a broad range of areas, and the survey was helpful in conrming areas Grainger has identied as in need of improvement.
The most important of these was internal communication and staff involvement, which we will be working on in the coming year.
Grainger will participate in the survey again in 2006, and will hope to demonstrate real improvement in performance.
KPI 2005 2006 key performance indicators Number of employees undertaking professional education 31 34 Average number of training days per employee 3 3 as reported in 2005 06 Investment in training per employee 671 674 % of employees with five or more years service 30% 38.5% Proportion of all staff that are female 56% 56% % of women in senior management positions 23.5% 4% % of women in technical or professional positions 16% 12.8% new in 2006 % of part-time employees 9.6% % of eligible employees participating in the sharesave scheme 50% % of eligible employees participating in share incentive plan 83% Due to change in denitions.
targets 2006 07 Develop and implement an action plan to encourage employees to lead a healthy and sustainable lifestyle.
Conduct a survey of all staff to canvas opinions on the quality and effectiveness of internal communications within Grainger.
Review and evaluate the effectiveness of current methods and opportunities for employee involvement.
Develop our employee benets package to offer greater exibility, thereby enabling employees to better reect their individual needs.
Develop and launch a new Training & Development site on SOURCE, providing employees with easier access to training and personal development information and activities.
For all our property managers, and 50% of property management assistants, to become Association of Residential Letting Agents qualied.
38 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility continued objective2 Ensure that we treat our tenants and customers fairly, and that we are responsive to their needs.
During the year, Grainger developed new Tenant Guide Packs for both our regulated and market let tenants.
These packs provide clear information relating to the terms of the rental agreement, complaints procedures, and respective rights of both tenants and landlord.
We have also published a Tenants Charter which clearly states our commitment to act in a professional and helpful manner to our tenants.
Our website includes graingerlets, which includes details of our properties available to let and a tenant guide to renting, for prospective tenants.
We began to centrally monitor all complaints received in March, and to date we have received a total of 27, which represents only 0.2% of our tenants by number.
Throughout the year we also supported our tenants in accessing funding via Warm Front, the governments main grant-funded programme for tackling fuel poverty.
28% of the properties we inspected had insulation work carried out and many of our tenants successfully secured funding for central heating installation.
Our property managers are the face of Grainger to our tenants.
It is essential, therefore, that our property managers are equipped to manage the great range of demands made of them.
With this in mind, Grainger launched The Balancing Act, an innovative and interactive e-learning programme for property managers.
Consisting of four modules, the programme challenges staff to nd ways to balance the often conicting demands and expectations of property management.
The programme has proved a great success, and all property managers have now completed modules one and two, with the remaining modules to be completed in early 2007.
The Balancing Act has given us a new and innovative way of learning: many of our day-to-day issues do not have one specic solution we must apply our experience and knowledge of operational objectives to deal with a range of complex issues.
DAVID HANCOCK, PROPERTY MANAGER, ALTRINCHAM key performance indicators 445 properties surveyed to date under the Warm Front initiative, of which 28% had insulation work done.
new in 2006 98.7% of rent due has been collected.
Rent loss due to voids as a percentage of Open Market Rental Value was 5.5% for the year against a target of 7%.
60% of exiting market rented tenants rated Graingers Management Service as very good or excellent.
39 targets 2006 07 Become accredited under the local authority initiative Landlords Accreditation Scheme where this is implemented in areas in which we manage housing.
Develop and issue a Tenant Satisfaction Questionnaire for regulated tenants.
Develop and launch a web area for tenants providing easy access to information relevant to their tenancy, as well as guidance on other topical issues, such as the environment.
Monitor our performance against the percentage of emergency repairs completed in 48 hours.
Increase the proportion of our exiting market let tenants who rate our management service as either Very Good or Excellent to 65% from 60%.
objective3 Reduce our direct adverse environmental impacts, and help and encourage our tenants and customers to do the same in respect of the properties they occupy.
In 2006, we have formalised our commitment to the environment in a policy statement, with a particular focus on our development activities, where we feel we have the greatest ability to mitigate our impacts.
The policy can be viewed on our website.
In May 2006, we conducted a preliminary review against EcoHomes for our Hornsey Road development.
This assessment included a cost benefit analysis of a variety of heating systems, and indicated that we are likely to achieve a Very Good EcoHomes rating.
targets 2006 07 Undertake a baseline review of Graingers environmental aspects and impacts with a view to formalising our management procedures around those that are most significant.
All new Grainger developments to achieve a minimum EcoHomes rating of Very Good.
Monitor the performance of all our development projects in relation to both waste management during construction and cost in use following completion.
Carry out research to identify environmentally friendly materials products with a view to listing these on our refurbishment site Property Design Solutions and actively encourage our contractors to use them.
40 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility continued objective4 Seek to understand the needs of the communities within which we operate, and positively contribute to their well-being.
During 2006, Grainger strengthened its commitment to act as a responsible corporate citizen, through the implementation of several initiatives and improved engagement with local communities.
Community Consultation at Widdrington Station Grainger piloted a best practice community consultation technique at our proposed regeneration development at Widdrington Station.
We commissioned local social regeneration consultants to carry out the consultation, including proactive communication with residents, and design workshops.
The technique proved very successful and we have now committed to apply minimum community consultation standards at all future development projects.
Business in the Community In 2006, Grainger became a member of Business in the Community.
This has helped us identify opportunities to make a real difference in the communities in which we operate.
As a result, we have committed to providing work placements to disadvantaged groups by operating a buddying scheme with our existing staff to assist long term unemployed in getting back into the workplace.
Workplace Giving In 2006, we launched our employee payroll giving scheme in partnership with Workplace Giving and Shelter, which has proved to be very successful.
Peter OHara, Managing Director of Workplace Giving UK said It is great Community consultation to see that smaller employers who embrace Payroll Giving are successful and we Widdrington Station congratulate Grainger for their initial and ongoing commitment to the scheme which has already raised more than 13,000 for UK Charities.
Grainger has already won two awards for its payroll giving scheme and been awarded the Gold Award under the new Payroll Giving Quality Mark.
key performance indicators 24,112 raised for Shelter, our charity of the year again in 2006 Shelter in 2005 30,764. as reported in 2005 220 staff involved in community activities 180 in 2005.
58,747 raised in total for charities 42,234 in 2005.
4,480 25,455 42,234 58,747 03 04 05 06 TOTAL RAISED FOR CHARITIES 41 targets 2006 07 To provide four work placements to socially disadvantaged persons under Business in the Communitys Business Action on Homelessness Programme.
Review and redevelop a corporate-wide charity strategy which seeks to encourage staff participation in identifying local charities for support.
Develop a community consultation procedure to include minimum standards to be implemented on all development projects, and guidance on the use of best practice techniques for appropriate projects.
objective5 Safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our employees, and where possible that of our tenants, contractors, visitors, clients and the general public.
During 2006, Grainger carried out an extensive and detailed Health and Safety H&S review, which resulted in a detailed action plan being put in place.
The majority of actions have now been completed, so we are developing a further plan for the coming year to ensure continuous improvement.
All property managers and development division managers were required to attend a comprehensive H&S training course during 2006.
The H&S manager also started a programme of e-learning display screen equipment training, which 110 members of staff have now completed.
key performance indicators No RIDDOR reportable accidents and incidents.
new in 2006 No pollution incidents.
targets 2006 07 Gather and present H&S data for major development projects to track H&S performance and identify any trends.
Embed Graingers Construction, Design and Management policy into the organisation and monitor KPIs.
Undertake H&S audits of a sample of Managing Agents, in order that their H&S performance can be assessed.
All Property Maintenance Contractors to be issued, and confirm compliance, with Graingers Health and Safety Handbook.
Reporting of injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995.
42 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility continued objective6 Engage proactively with prioritised suppliers to ensure that they meet with our specified economic, social and environmental standards.
During the year, Grainger developed the Black Book, a new electronic supplier management database.
The system, which already includes H&S criteria, has been designed to accommodate more CSR related questions, and will allow for contractors to be graded accordingly.
Scorecards are being used to measure the community and environmental practice of suppliers, and environmentally preferable ofce suppliers are being identied.
Average payment term from invoice date remained at 30 days in 2006. key performance indicators as reported in 2005 targets 2006 07 Develop relevant guidance for contractors on tenant care, considerate construction, and environmental good practice.
objective7 Maintain high standards of business conduct, and secure long term sustainable returns for our investors.
Investor Engagement We continue to keep our investors well informed of our strategy and success through regular meetings and presentations.
In particular, during 2006, the groups chief executive and deputy chief executive finance director have, between them, conducted almost 100 meetings with shareholders, potential investors and analysts approximately 80 in 2005 in the UK, Europe and the US.
Employee Charter During the year, we developed an Employee Charter setting out all the guiding principles by which we expect our growing number of staff to conduct business.
In keeping with our people first culture, this Charter claries to employees the nature of their own, and Grainger's responsibilities.
It refers employees to other more detailed policies including public interests disclosure whistle blowing.
Formally respond to requests for information sent by our major investors targets 2006 07 owners of at least 3% shares on CSR.
Proactively undertake research into the public CSR commitments of our major stakeholders including investors, peers, partners, and contractors to shape our future strategy.
43 Advisors Statement Upstream has assessed Graingers achievement against these targets based on: Meetings and face-to-face interviews with the Grainger individuals responsible for specic CSR areas and for target delivery.
Detailed review of documentation and information submitted as evidence against the targets.
On this basis we can provide assurance that Grainger has fully achieved 15 out of its 21 targets 70%, with five substantially progressed, and only one target not met at all.
This demonstrates a high level of achievement by a company that set CSR targets for the first time, suggesting a commendable sense of ownership and commitment to CSR.
Grainger performed particularly well against its socio-economic targets, but has also demonstrated significant progress this year in developing its environmental policy statement and further addressing the management of its environmental impacts.
The years highlights are well documented in these pages of the Annual Report, and more detail is provided on the company website.
The only target not to have been met was the inclusion of a set of CSR standards in major construction contracts.
Although a number of environmental and H&S issues are covered as standard practice, the company is committed to further strengthening its requirements of contractors on specic issues such as waste management.
Tighter management of environmental impacts also represents a considerable challenge to Grainger, given that it is not able to exert direct control over many of its properties due to the management leasehold arrangements.
However, the company is committed to identifying those areas where it does have inuence, and to taking action in these areas as much as possible.
At Upstream, we look forward to continuing to work with Grainger as it addresses current and future challenges, and continues to embed CSR into the core of its business.
