6818 Report 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:30 Page 29 Corporate Social Mapeley procures goods Responsibility and services from suppliers that operate sound environmental policies and whose national and international practices are ethically sound.
Mapeley takes a responsible approach to the operation CSR Committee members of its business and the delivery of services to its clients Chief Operating officer Chair and is committed to achieving sustainability to ensure an Head of Business Assurance equitable, healthy future for all people and the environment.
Head of Client Liaison General Counsel Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Environment and Utilities Manager are also a prime focus for Mapeleys clients.
Mapeley Group Financial Reporting Manager works in close partnership with its clients to support their Head of Health and Safety sustainability objectives and acts to inuence Mapeleys Head of Human Resources supply partners to ensure environmental and socioHead of Investor Relations economic factors are taken into account in day-to-day IT Projects Analyst operations.
To achieve this goal Mapeleys core principles Head of Portfolio Management have been set out in the form of a CSR Policy.
Head of Procurement Mapeley has established a CSR Committee comprising Mapeley has a number of established accredited of 12 senior staff members with direct interest in Mapeleys management systems which are externally assessed ability to achieve sustainable and responsible business which cover: operations.
The CSR Committee meets monthly and is responsible for developing and promoting good Quality ISO9001 CSR practice.
Health and Safety OHSAS18001 Mapeleys commitment to CSR received external Human Resources recognition from FTSE4Good in 2006.
Environmental Management ISO14001 Overview of 2006 Mapeley is committed to sustainability and assisting its clients with their sustainability objectives.
Some highlights of Mapeleys actions in this area both in respect of its UK assets occupied by Mapeleys staff and properties occupied by its clients are set out overleaf.
Mapeley's commitment to CSR received external Leon House Croydon recognition by FTSE4Good in 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 29 6818 Report 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:30 Page 30 Environment Health and safety training was increased through both Mapeley helped to reduce HMRCs monthly CO2 the number of courses offered and the total hours invested emissions by 8,000 tonnes by using a variety of in training.
Mapeley was also awarded the Royal Society methods from procurement of green electricity, for the prevention of Accidents Gold Award for Health better monitoring of energy use at site, site surveys and Safety Performance in 2006. and actively managing plant on site to ensure it Mapeley has appointed a Charitable Donations and performs efficiently Community Support officer to take an active role in Mapeleys ofce in Milton Keynes is now supplied community liaison and to co-ordinate Mapeleys with 100% green electricity from wind and large scale charitable initiatives.
Members of staff are also hydroelectric power.
Mapeleys London ofce will be provided with sponsorship.
supplied with green electricity by the end of the first Mapeley actively supports a number of charities, such as quarter of 2007 Comic Relief, Children in Need, Breast Cancer Awareness Mapeley procures green electricity for the HMRC and UNICEF.
estate: this energy is procured using Mapeleys Economic expertise in energy management and procurement.
Mapeley has used its inuence in many areas.
One of The energy sourced is from large scale hydroelectric the areas is procurement of Fairtrade products.
Fairtrade and wind generation and sustainable products are now available from vending Mapeley has procured and is currently installing machines at Mapeley and across the HMRC estate.
automatic electricity meters across the HMRC estate.
Mapeley uses local suppliers and produce wherever This will enable Mapeley to accurately manage energy practicable.
Better data will help to reduce energy use and assist HMRC in achieving its sustainability Future outlook targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as A number of measurable objectives, targets and key carbon dioxide performance indicators are being developed to ensure Mapeley progresses towards sustainable development and Mapeley has recently tendered for plumbed in point that it can demonstrate improvements in its performance.
of use water throughout the HMRC estate to eliminate It is intended that 2007 will be a baseline from which to bottled water and reduce CO2.
Point of use water helps measure improvements to ensure Mapeley can fully assess to reduce the impact of the indirect carbon footprint and monitor its activities.
Regular reports will be published and ecological damage associated with the manufacture documenting Mapeleys performance against the baseline of plastic bottles and the water bottling process itself from 2008.
In 2006 Mapeley changed its procurement of bottled It is also Mapeleys intention to develop an integrated water.
Mapeleys ofces in the UK use water bottles management system to manage CSR alongside its existing made from 100% biodegradable and compostable plastic health and safety, environmental and quality assurance Reusable shopping bags called Onyabags were issued management systems.
to all Mapeley staff, to reduce the quantity of plastic Mapeleys CSR Committee will monitor Mapeleys progress carrier bag waste produced towards sustainable development, to ensure targets are Mapeley has purchased nearly 12,000 sq m of carpet, met.
The key areas of focus are: all of which can be put through a unique recycling Compliance with all applicable legislation and other programme at the end of its first life and be reused, statutory requirements therefore not going to landll.
Assessment of the impacts of all its operations on Social the environment to prevent and mitigate pollution The health, safety and welfare of its employees, customers and contractors is key to Mapeleys continued success.
Maintaining on-going dialogue with stakeholders Mapeleys commitment to health and safety continued and clients to identify key environmental issues and in 2006. develop effective strategies to manage these Reporting on progress through relevant environmental reporting methods both internally and publicly Moving towards sustainable development in a Bottled water made from 100% biodegradable plastic strategic manner and Onyabags issued to all staff reducing plastic carrier bag waste Procurement Encouraging environmentally responsible behaviour throughout the workforce Training the management team to IOSH Managing Safely standard 30 Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility 6818 Report 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:30 Page 31 Procurement Mapeley works in close Mapeley has the ability to inuence a large number of organisations and individuals through the operation partnership with its of its estate, especially with regard to its relationships with contractors in the provision of facilities management, clients to support their life cycle and projects services.
Mapeleys procurement policy addresses sustainable sustainability objectives.
Mapeley procures goods and services from suppliers that operate sound environmental policies and whose national and international practices are ethically sound.
Mapeley ensures that its supply chain adheres to its sustainability requirements by inuencing their business operations.
Contractors terms and conditions reect Mapeleys sustainability requirements and incorporate a requirement for the provision for management information to enable these to be monitored for example: the procurement of timber, green energy and recycling of waste.
Mapeley will measure its performance by the following key performance indicators: Mapeley is proactive in its approach to sustainable procurement and in initiating projects to improve Environment the supply chain.
Mapeley currently has partnerships 2 Energy used Kwh m with contractors who reuse, refurbish and recycle ofce Carbon dioxide energy used and business mileage furniture.
The procurement team works closely with the environment team continually to review opportunities 2 Carbon Kg m produced to improve working practices.
For example, procuring Reams of paper used per person recycled paper and bio bags which will replace standard bin bags and signicantly reduce landll.
Volume of paper recycled per person Mapeley is a signatory of the London Mayor's Green Social Procurement Code which was launched on 4 March 2001 Health and Safety to encourage businesses operating in London to purchase Disabling injury rate goods made from recycled materials.
It aims to stimulate RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Disease demand for recycled products and materials, creating a and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations business solution to the waste problem and thus helping London become a more sustainable city.
Mapeley is also Work related sickness rate working with London Remade, who are responsible for Human Resources delivering the code on behalf of the Mayor, to assist Diversity with the development of the code for 2007.
Number of female employees Managerial grade female employees Ethnic minorities Managerial grade ethnic minorities Training Induction Health and safety training employee spent on training Northminster House Peterborough Castle Meadow Nottingham Corporate Social Responsibility Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2006 31 6818 Report 2006. qxd 16 3 07 17:30 Page 32 Mapeley &results FFO of 45.7 million: up 79.2%.
Business model focused on income generation to deliver dividend growth.
