Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 39 Corporate Responsibility Corporate responsibility is of growing importance.
Our Environment and Social Report reflects our approach and outlines our future plans, new initiatives and targets, along with the progress made in addressing environmental and social performance of our property investments and developments.
Over the past year, we have continued to review and manage significant environmental and social impacts of our business and identify areas for improvement.
The key initiatives during the past year have focused on a sustainability appraisal of The Walbrook development, a preliminary BREEAM assessment of The Walbrook development, a waste management strategy and an initial energy audit at a number of our properties.
Sustainability appraisal As part of fulfilling our Environmental and Social Policy, a sustainability appraisal of The Walbrook development was undertaken using Arups Sustainable Project Appraisal Routine SPeAR tool.
SPeAR is based on a four-quadrant model that structures the issues of sustainability into a framework with a focus on the key elements of environmental protection, social equity, economic viability and efficient use of natural resources.
The sustainability appraisal provided a snapshot of The Walbrooks sustainability performance.
Relevant policy and guidance documents were reviewed to demonstrate how the proposed design has responded to the Governments objectives for sustainable development.
The appraisal shows that the scheme performs well overall.
In particular, it demonstrates strong sustainability performance with regard to transport, access, social benefits and economic viability.
BREEAM assessment In addition to the sustainability appraisal, the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM was used to assess the environmental performance of The Walbrook.
BREEAM is a recognised method of benchmarking the environmental performance of buildings.
Prior to the formal BREEAM Offices assessment, a predicted assessment of The Walbrook was undertaken to allow an evaluation of the rating that could be achieved under a formal assessment.
The current design and construction of The Walbrook is likely to achieve a BREEAM rating of very good: however we are currently reviewing the design with the aim of seeking to achieve a rating of excellent in the formal assessment.
Waste management We are aware that our developments have the potential to generate significant quantities of waste unless waste minimisation is considered at the investment stage, and carried through to design, construction and asset management.
Therefore, we are in the process of developing a waste management strategy to assist in improving waste performance throughout the property life cycle.
The strategy will provide guidance on waste management and how it can be incorporated into Minervas and its contractors business practices.
Initial energy audit An initial energy audit was completed for a number of our properties this year.
The aim of this audit was to gain a better understanding of properties in terms of floor area over which we have influence, use and energy demands.
Each property was benchmarked in terms of energy performance, which will assist us to prepare for the forthcoming Energy Performance in Buildings Directive.
Recommendations made from this audit will help us to improve reporting of resource usage as well as identify opportunities to decrease resource consumption so that year on year improvements can be made.
Minerva is committed to achieving continual improvement in terms of sustainability performance and to demonstrate this, we aim to implement recommendations from this years initiatives.
