corporate social responsibility csr The Board is ultimately responsible for the to a package of community bene ts, at both enable local families within selected post codes Groups strategy and policies in relation Wembley and Greenwich in the case of to join leisure facilities where initial membership to corporate responsibility, recognising the Greenwich, together with its joint venture fees are beyond their financial reach.
potential impact its business operations might partner, totaling some 122m, which will be have on the wider economy and society.
implemented over the lifetime of the projects.
Other measures include the provision As a minimum, the Group complies with In addition to this, approximately 5,500 of health centres in conjunction with current legislation and has a number of affordable homes will be delivered.
the local Primary Health Care Trust policies and codes of conduct in place and educational facilities.
which encourage high standards of corporate Quintain is working on translating its wider behaviour in areas such as employment, sustainability agenda into concrete proposals.
environmental equal opportunities and health and safety.
Detailed planning consent was received in The Group recognises the importance January 2006 in respect of the first new build of long term maintenance of the environment Overall, the Board is committed to incorporating plot at Wembley.
This block comprises and encourages continuous environmental sustainability into its business agenda since principally residential accommodation with awareness.
In general terms, we aim to it recognises that through the Groups business, some ancillary uses.
In terms of sustainability, minimise the risk of causing harm through as owners of real estate and commercial the proposals incorporate a combined heat careful consideration of construction developers, its work has both a positive and power system, a car club, and various techniques, the speci cation and use and negative impact on society and the other measures to reduce the environmental of sustainable materials with a view to environment.
Whilst recognising that their impact of the building and to lower the the elimination of materials or substances primary duty is to increase shareholder value, level of CO emissions.
This plot is an harmful to the environment, the safe 2 the Directors acknowledge that in discharging exemplar and demonstrates the minimum encapsulation or removal of asbestos this obligation, the Group also has responsibilities level of sustainability measures acceptable at and other contaminative materials from to other stakeholders, such as joint venture Wembley.
As the Group moves through the its sites, the reduction of waste and the partners, tenants, staff and the local communities phasing of Wembley, we expect to enhance the adoption of safe working practices in in which the Group operates to minimise the level of green speci ciation as technology the construction and maintenance of negative impacts of our business whilst using develops and commercial viability increases.
Efforts are also made during influence actively to enhance the natural development to protect, where possible, environment and society through our core employment wildlife areas and or restore the ecological business activities and by engaging with other At Wembley, Quintain is participating at the balance of the environment.
The Groups commitment highest level in the Chancellors Fair Cities to social responsibility is recognised by its Initiative, which speci cally targets communities The Group has an investment of 12.8% continued inclusion in the FTSE 4 Good Index.
with a higher than average proportion of ethnic in Serrastone SA, a French company which minorities in order to develop training and holds the global licence for and is the social employment opportunities.
It will focus principally manufacturer of Serrastone technology, a The Groups two major urban regeneration on employers needs as opposed to simply cement free low carbon building block with sites at Wembley and Greenwich are an training people for jobs which may not exist.
illustration of how it is working to meet the needs of future tenants, communities, and As part of its planning obligations, Quintain The Groups head of ce moved in July 2005 local and central government by creating has agreed to provide an employment portal and a review of the new offices and sustainable mixed-use communities which: for those seeking work, either within the initial work practices from an environmental construction phase or in the businesses which perspective was carried out subsequently are safe and people friendly: will emerge post-completion.
Funding for which identified areas for improvement executives to support these employment on current practice.
A number of action support local shops, education, health and training initiatives is contained within points have been identi ed and are being and other community facilities: the planning agreement and we are working progressed such as changing the collaboratively with the London Borough electricity supplier to a green provider, include affordable housing, a proportion of Brent and the College of North West London.
introducing a green transport policy and of which is suitable for key workers: On the Greenwich Peninsula, a major increased commitment to recycling.
As contribution to local labour and training a result, the Company is now a signatory create job opportunities for local people initiatives has also been agreed.
to the Mayor of Londons Green we expect to create 30,000 new jobs on Procurement Policy at level B1.
these two sites : mixed-use and balanced communities sustainability committee concentrate on brown eld sites and These mixed-use developments are, During the year, a sustainability committee urban centres, thereby rejuvenating by fide nition, being developed to a high was formed, comprising staff from different those areas: residential density and it is important to areas of the Company and is chaired by ensure that living at high density in relatively Adrian Wyatt, the Chief Executive.
reduce dependence on car use by af uent surroundings does not compound building around existing transport nodes, any social gaps or divisions.
We are therefore joint ventures the provision of local facilties and the working with our local authority partners In June 2005, the Company formed a joint use of car clubs: and in both Greenwich and Brent to ensure venture, BioRegional Quintain Limited, with appropriate affordable housing letting BioRegional Properties Limited, an expert promote energy ef ciency building to protocols are put in place.
in the field of sustainable development.
good energy ef cient standards and BioRegional Quintain aims to become often use combined heat and power.
Other aspects of the scheme involve helping one of the countrys leading developers local lower income households have access of sustainable communities and is As part of its legally binding obligations to to some of the wider facilities.
At Wembley, committed to the principles of One the planning authorities, Quintain has commited we have offered a financial contribution to 42 quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 Planet Living established by WWF, Since the year end, the Groups head of ce The Group actively pursues a number of key the global conservation organisation.
has also carried out a staff satisfaction survey objectives regarding health and safety.
which showed that 92% of staff who responded These objectives include: Since the year end, Quantum a joint venture rated the Companys culture either as extremely between the Company and Morley, was positive or positive this compares with 100% the elimination, where possible, of risks chosen as preferred developer for SPark, in the previous year.
A small number of to health and safety and, where not a new science park located at Emersons action points were identi ed and are being possible, the effective provision of Green, Bristol, which aims to create the UKs dealt with.
control measures appropriate to the risk: first carbon neutral science park.
health and safety the development of the philosophy of staff The Group is committed to the highest injury and incident free places of work It is recognised that the Groups most important standards of performance in the provision for our employees: resource is its staff and that a highly motivated of a safe and healthy environment for its employee base is essential to its continued employees, tenants, contractors and visitors the reduction of accidents and other success.
As a result, the Groups policy is and considers its performance in this eld incidents to their lowest possible levels: to recruit both Directors and staff of the highest to be a key performance indicator.
quality and to remunerate them accordingly.
ensuring that employees are appropriately Further details of the Groups remuneration It actively promotes and develops a safety trained to carry out their duties: policy are shown in the Report of the culture throughout the whole of the Groups Remuneration Committee on pages 32 to 36 activities and ensures that the Company is ensuring that adequate priority and of the accounts.
compliant in all respects with the Health and resources are available to address Safety at Work Act 1974 and associated the issues of health and safety across The Group encourages career development amendments and legislation.
A health and the Group: through the provision of relevant training with safety committee comprising employees funding and study leave to support professional from different departments meets every the review of group-wide health and development.
This year, the Company three months.
safety policy on an annual basis: introduced a new performance development system and nearly all staff were trained in order Following this years review of policy, the review of risks and controls on an to gain the best results from the process.
the system of internal control has been ongoing basis to improve standards strengthened and now includes an of health and safety and compliance There are opportunities for staff to make overarching policy and group-wide health with legislation: formal input into the management of the and safety system.
The group-wide policy business and a at corporate structure is aligned to Health and Safety Guidance the maintenance of a management control and an open door policy promotes HSG65 which provides a clear system system which, inter alia, identi es key communication and maximum contribution.
of review and inspection and both directs personnel and a corporate health and and provides guidance to all subsidiary safety structure: and The Group is an equal opportunities employer companies and departments.
and strict codes of conduct are set out in the leading and promoting of staff the staff handbook to ensure that this policy The policy clearly maps out the safety structure awareness in relation to good practice is pursued.
and arrangements for the Group and is and continuous improvements to the supplemented by a team of quali ed personnel safety culture that runs across all During the year, the Group employed an to ensure that the high standards on paper activities carried out by the Group.
average of 64 permanent staff excluding are converted to high standards in practice.
non-executive Directors at its head of ce The prime health and safety resource within During the year under review, there were and 113 at Wembley, comprising: the Group is the team of three full time six minor accidents across the Group which personnel based at Wembley London resulted in insurers being noti ed and 2006 2005 Limited, the Groups main operating subsidiary, no RIDDOR reportable incidents % % and the head of this team is responsible 2005: eight minor accidents and Gender: women 51 41 for health and safety across the Group on no RIDDOR reportable incidents.
Age range: 1830 13 20 The Head of Health and Safety is also able 3145 41 42 to call on the resources of specialist risk 46 and over 46 38 advisers to ensure that risk exposure is identi ed and eliminated or reduced as far as is possible.
As a supplement to this, our insurers also During the year, a signi cant amount of inspect various risk areas.
Recent inspections restructuring took place within Wembley and reviews resulted in positive outcomes London Limited following the transfer of regarding the way risk is managed across the management of Wembley Arena to Live the business.
Nation and the announcement to close the Conference and Exhibition Centres pending re-development of the site.
These changes will result in a number of staff being made redundant or having their employment transferred to other employers outside of the Group.
There was also a small amount of restructuring at head of ce.
quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 43
