Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 19 Environmental Policy Statement The housebuilding process affects the environment by the use of land and consumption of resources throughout the development process.
It is our objective to ensure that, at the conclusion of a scheme, an attractive and sustainable new environment has been created that will continue over time.
Recognising that we have responsibilities to both limit damage to and enhance the environment, this statement sets out our policies for managing the environmental aspects across our business.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Key commitments are to: Minimise any deleterious impacts on the environment and where possible to seek environmental enhancements, concentrating on areas where there is most room for improvement.
Aim to meet and, where practicable, exceed the requirements of all relevant environmental legislation and regulations.
Set specific environmental objectives and targets and periodically review progress against these.
Ensure that Bellway's environmental aims and their importance are communicated throughout the Group, including appropriate sub-contractors and suppliers, and that a copy of the policy is sent to each Bellway site.
Consider the role that Bellway can play in helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK.
In addition to our key commitments the Group has identified a number of specific objectives which we will endeavour to achieve.
These are: Consideration of environmental aspects in the selection and procurement of land for development, including implications for biodiversity and sustainable development.
Meet and, where possible, exceed government targets for the redevelopment of brownfield land.
Influencing the design of sites, housing and fittings to minimise impacts on both the natural and built environment.
Providing environmental benefits and minimising nuisance arising from construction activities and preventing pollution on development sites.
20 Consideration of environmental issues within our corporate functions and everyday business decision-making processes.
The above are, of course, subject to economic considerations.
Key Performance Indicators 2004 2005 2006 Percentage of homes developed on brownfield sites 75 78 81 Density of build per hectare no.
of homes 56 69 69 Number of EcoHomes with Very Good rating 168 224 263 Average SAP rating for all Bellway homes 95.6 90 90 2 CO2 Emissions tonnes per 100m of floor space 2.22 2.20 1.60 Tonnes of plasterboard recycled 1,287 2,408 4,708 3 Water consumption m per home built 10.85 10.81 10.74 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 Environmental issues are also addressed in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 which is available to shareholders on the Companys website www.
co. uk or on written application to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
