Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17 Ravenswood, Ipswich, Suffolk Corporate Responsibility Policy Statement Bellway believes that its reputation is critical Engage and respond to stakeholders, Invest in the communities we develop in a to the creation of long-term value for its including shareholders, employees, way that contributes to local community shareholders.
We recognise that financial customers, governments and communities needs.
success is reinforced by our behaviour that we influence.
Manage our environmental impacts and beyond the balance sheet.
Protecting and Comply with all relevant legislation as a aim to enhance areas in which we operate.
enhancing our reputation and social licence minimum standard.
Consider and respond to social and to operate is a significant element of Work towards recognised good practice in environmental impacts of the homes and sustained financial success.
Corporate responsibility is action taken by Treat all employees fairly and invest in Improve internal and external awareness the Group which positively impacts upon training for the long-term to bring out the of our corporate responsibility our employees, customers, shareholders, best in our people.
suppliers, the communities where we work Provide a healthy and safe environment in Report regularly to the board and and the environment that we operate in which to work through an effective health external stakeholders on performance and goes beyond our legal or regulatory & safety management system.
This policy sets out how we Demonstrate continual improvement in will operate and drives the Groups our approach to sustainable developments corporate responsibility activity.
Through in both design and practice.
Bellways commitment to corporate responsibility we will: Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 The following structure has been put in place to achieve these commitments: The Chief Executive is responsible for this policy and advising the board on all corporate responsibility matters.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Sustainability Management Working Group including senior members from across Bellway who are responsible for the development and review of this policy.
The financial directors of each regional division are responsible for implementation and reporting on its performance.
Bellway is committed to reporting annually on its approach to corporate responsibility and has established key performance indicators to enable others to judge our performance.
This policy does not replace existing policies on environment, health & safety and wood procurement, but has been developed to work with them.
All policies are available on the Bellway website www.
co. uk and are reviewed annually.
18 Key Performance Indicators 2004 2005 2006 Governance Maintain compliance with combined code Yes Yes Yes Employees Measure training employee days 0.5 1 1.22 Number of apprentices employed 116 139 206 Health & Safety Lost time accidents 57 51 47 Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 Corporate responsibility issues are also addressed in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 which is available to shareholders on the companys website www.
co. uk or on written application to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
