48 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Our People The Savills vision and strategy are entirely based on Remuneration Share ownership Savills operates a number of the belief that market leadership and superior financial Profit share Savills business philosophy is founded different share plans to assist retention and encourage results can only be achieved with strong teams of on the premise that employees should be motivated share ownership which allows employees to receive outstanding individuals.
Great people are the Savills and retained through highly incentive-based and further benefits as a result of the growth of the Group.
difference and ongoing recruitment and retention of therefore variable remuneration packages.
This is An increasingly important part of our total remuneration these outstanding individuals remains a top priority for one of our employment advantages and is a distinctive for top performers is the Savills Deferred Share Bonus the business.
Our reputation in the market comes from part of our performance based culture.
In general, Plan and the Savills Deferred Share Plan, whereby a clients interactions with our people who are innovative, each operating subsidiary has a discretionary bonus portion of the individuals bonus or remuneration may professional, responsive to changes in the market, scheme where the annual bonus pool available for be deferred for a period of not less than three years highly motivated and dedicated to excellent client distribution is directly related to the profit of that and awarded in shares.
It is thanks to them that Savills continues subsidiary after charging all costs but pre-bonus to be so strong.
including central overheads and finance charges.
Savills Share Incentive Plan Under UK tax legislation In the UK and Europe, the amounts available for all employees with more than three months service In a survey by Reading University on behalf of Estates distribution within these bonus pools were calculated may purchase Savills shares at market price from Gazette, graduates of all ages working in UK real estate in bands between 30% of the pre-tax and pre-bonus their pre tax pay subject to an overall limit of have voted Savills top service provider employer.
125 per month or 10% of their earnings.
profits through to 65% for excellent performance, This award was also achieved in 2002 and in 2005. based on the achievement of predetermined It is our clear objective to develop and improve this Savills Save As You Earn Scheme In June 2006 thresholds.
These bands are reviewed regularly.
reputation in every market where we operate.
the Company offered a three year saving scheme In Asia, the remuneration policy is also incentive to eligible employees.
based reflecting a mixture of commission and bonus Pensions The Group offers retirement pensions in line structures that follow the normal reward policies of the with national practice and local competitive markets.
respective countries in which we operate.
Awards to Further details of the pension scheme can be found individuals are assessed by reference to fee earning on pages 97 to 99.
In the UK, pensions have been achievements, profitability of the individuals area of amended to take into account the recent changes responsibility, contribution to business development in pensions and age discrimination legislation.
49 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Our People Training and development Recruitment Communication With talent and hard work there is a clear path for Graduate recruitment A number of graduate During 2006 the Company launched a new advancement with individual achievement recognised recruitments are undertaken each year in different internal communication system known as Connect.
by increased highly incentive-based financial rewards areas of the business including commercial, residential, This makes available to all employees announcements as well as by promotion.
rural, planning and development, and building and information about their own working groups, surveying work.
offices, subsidiaries, and nationally together with Appraisals Employees take part in a regular information about other parts of the Group and review with their manager for training and personal The Company adopts a range of training and publicly released information.
A personal development plan is development techniques for graduates including produced which is reviewed on a six-monthly basis in internal coaching and mentoring in order to pass The Company recognised the importance of sharing relation to the business objectives of the department on the enormous amount of in-house knowledge.
information and celebrating success on both a formal and office.
This ensures training remains focused and In addition it is also recognised that some skills are and informal basis.
A number of informal lunches appropriate to both the needs of the individual and better provided by external trainers.
have been organised to assist with the exchange of organisation as a whole.
This process continues to information across the Company and all employees Summer placements of two to four weeks are also improve at all levels of the Company.
In addition, there are a number of offered to students in certain areas of the business.
training and development days organised within Training Our objective is to provide training and This avails both the student and the Company the working groups and geographically.
development opportunities that will maximise opportunity to evaluate each other.
performance and develop a long-term career.
Equal opportunities Acquisitions Training and development is seen as key to attracting The Company is an equal opportunities employer.
A large number of people join Savills each year and retaining staff and we are rightly proud of the Recruitment, training, development and promotion through acquisitions.
It is equally important to retain reputation we have built through the investment are undertaken on the basis of merit regardless of and develop these vital people who have often been made in these areas.
gender, race, age, marital status, sexual orientation, targeted because of their specialist expertise.
religion or religious belief, nationality, colour or disability.
Training is provided in-house for a wide Health During 2006, we focused on diversity and have range of subjects both technical and skills based.
The Company recognises the importance created a training programme for all employees to External training is also provided where appropriate.
In the UK, medical, life assurance attend.
The Company aims wherever possible to Encouragement is also given to achieving and long-term disability benefits are provided subject accommodate requests for flexible working for acknowledged qualifications that will assist with to eligibility provisions for permanent employees.
Should an employee become disabled, the further development of the employee.
adjustments to facilitate continued work will be Ongoing support and funding is then provided to In 2006, an Occupational Health Adviser considered and if appropriate alterative positions ensure all staff undertake the continued professional OHP was appointed by the Company to advise may be offered.
development necessary to ensure we provide the on health related issues, review pre employment highest possible standards of service to our clients health questionnaires and assist and advise on the HR Strategy and meet the requirements of the many professional management of long-term absences.
In 2007, we plan to review and refresh our Human bodies represented amongst our staff.
Resource Strategy to ensure we continue to retain our competitive edge in the war for talent.
We will be reviewing the competencies required to achieve our growth objectives, recruitment, compensation structures, career development and training and other aspects of the organisation that influence our tremendous success through people.
UK Bathealton Court Taunton, Somerset Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Chief Executives Business Review Left Bathealton Court, Devon Somerset borders.
In May 2006 the Country Department and Savills Exeter were instructed in the sale of this stunning Grade II listed Country House.
Bathealton Court dates back to the early 18th Century but there has been an important house on the site since Domesday when it was the property of Sir William Moahun, Baron of Dunster Castle.
The house covers 8,234 sq ft 765 sq m with 141 acres of surrounding garden, parkland and woodland.
Also included in the sale were a four bedroom detatched farmhouse, three bedroom lodge and a stable cottage.
The property was competitively priced inviting offers in excess of 4m attracting a significant amount of interest from both national and international buyers with the eventual sale achieving well in excess of the guide price.
