52 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Our Social Responsibilities Savills recognises that our success depends upon Governance As a minimum standard we endeavour to comply our reputation, brand and relationship with a variety To uphold our corporate values, the Board is with the laws, regulations and rules applicable within of our stakeholders.
We are committed to conducting responsible for ensuring compliance of our policies the jurisdictions in which we operate and we have all aspects of our business according to ethical, and statements on health and safety, the environment, processes in place to review and monitor legislation professional and legal standards.
As a professional data protection, privacy, whistle-blowing, and applicable to our business.
In particular, internal services firm our environmental and social impact appropriate use of information technology.
Whilst it is procedures that meet the requirements of current is relatively low.
However, we do recognise that not easy to insist on the same standards overseas, legislation and industry best practice have been societies expectations of business integrity, ethics we have wherever possible attempted to apply these implemented to take account of financial crime.
and professionalism are increasing, for example policies or begin to develop them in our overseas Likewise, we have safeguards in place to ensure these requirements now form an integral part of businesses.
As part of our internal audit function, the privacy of our employees and clients.
these policies and statements are regularly reviewed A number of our offices have achieved the internationally and updated to reflect changes in legislation, Our clients are paramount to the success of our recognised ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 accreditation best practice and business needs.
We include a business: our aim to win and retain their trust and which benchmarks our quality management and consideration of corporate social responsibility related loyalty is one of our core values.
We recognise that in environmental management system.
Under this risks in our Corporate Risk Register.
This process order to win and retain our clients we must provide a accreditation system, our quality management refers to ensures that we are aware of, and are addressing superior service which we can only do by recruiting actions that have been taken to ensure that our services a number of potential risks, including regulatory and retaining the highest quality employees.
We are satisfy our clients quality requirements and comply with compliance, environmental or health and safety constantly reviewing the services we offer to meet their any regulations applicable to the provision of those incidents and reputational issues.
KPMG have been ever evolving needs.
Similarly, our environmental management appointed as the Groups internal auditors on a system applies to those environmental aspects over global basis.
which our business has control.
The maintenance Savills sponsored the Estates Gazette Summit The Board recognises its responsibility to shareholders of this accreditation involves identifying significant held on 12 October 2006 at Claridges, London.
in relation to the management and control of Group environmental impacts, auditing the offices Over 130 prominent property people attended activities.
To this end, the Group has adopted a formal annually and is overseen by an external auditor.
the green summit to hear the views of a mix of system of internal controls designed to provide Environmental impacts are identified on an office by environmental experts such as John Elkington founder reasonable assurance against misstatement and loss.
office basis and areas where we have significant impact of SustainAbility, John Gummer co-chairman of the The Executive Sub Committee conducts an annual include: resource consumption, corporate travel, waste Conservative Party and Sir Crispin Tickell advisor review of effectiveness of the system of internal management, discharges and water.
In the long-term to the Prime Minister.
The message was adapt or control.
Further details are contained in the internal we see our biggest contribution as the provision of die as climate change threatens devastating effects controls section of the Corporate Governance Report advice to clients.
around the world and how industry must face up on pages 64 to 65.
Good communications with to the challenge.
We value our clients and recognise that to encourage our shareholders are maintained by way of results client loyalty we need to maintain a quality service.
presentations and individual investor meetings.
In order to make sure that we are providing a quality service the views and opinions of our clients are sought, for example our residential business asks clients to complete a client feedback form, also mystery shopping is carried out in our offices on an ad hoc basis.
53 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Our Social Responsibilities The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Environment Within our offices, we encourage our employees to use rules and regulations promote best practice within Although the impact of our activities on the environment recycling bins provided and raise awareness to new our industry and encourage a set of central core is low compared with other industries, the Group entrants as part of their induction programme.
To raise values that it expects its members to abide by such is committed to environmental awareness and awareness of environmental issues to employees, Savills as integrity, honesty, accountability etc.
We uphold improvement throughout its operations.
The Groups sponsored showings in a local London cinema during the RICS code of professional conduct and have environmental policy aims to reduce energy business hours of the Al Gore film An Inconvenient implemented their complaints procedure.
consumption, reduce energy wastage, recycle Truth and an environmental sign off wording is included materials where possible and instill in every employee on emails to encourage responsible printing off of emails.
Health and safety a sense of commitment to the environment.
In Hong Kong, waste management and recycling is seen The promotion of a safe and healthy working as critical for environmental protection.
Savills Property environment are considered key to the success of the Management in Hong Kong has introduced diversified Savills Shanghai is a partner of eeBuildings which business and the Group endeavours to promote health recycling initiatives among commercial buildings and was developed by the US Environmental Protection and safety at all levels.
It is important that all employees residential properties under our management such Agency US EPA.
In July 2006, Vivian Tang, have access to the resources they need to enable them as rechargeable batteries, paper, cans and bottle Director of the Property Management department to achieve their personal and company health and collections, etc.
in Savills Shanghai was awarded the eeBuildings safety objectives.
To this end, we provide workspaces, Partner of the Year by the US EPA.
She has equipment, materials and systems of work that The majority of our client communications are offered spearheaded energy efficient improvements in many contribute to a safe and healthy environment for in electronic format and clients enquirers are of the properties that Savills manages in Shanghai our employees.
Policies and procedures have been encouraged to receive documents in this format.
plus has been instrumental in organising technical implemented to reduce risks and incidents within the Energy efficiency is also of increasing importance to training for other Shanghai property managers.
We have dedicated health and safety our clients, due both to rising energy costs and an executives who manage, audit and review health and increased focus on carbon emissions.
In some Information technology forms an important part of safety as well as implementing improvements where markets, such as the EU, upcoming government the business and we assess new systems for required.
These executives visit our offices and sites regulations like the Directive on the Energy energy emissions ratings as well as functionality and that we manage for clients to raise the profile of health Performance of Buildings will lead to important performance.
With the ever continuing pace of change and safety and ensure that standards are maintained.
changes, such as energy ratings for buildings.
in technology, redundant equipment is recycled A health and safety handbook has been developed to wherever possible.
Any equipment that cannot be cover everything a property manager would need in recycled is responsibly disposed of through a waste the day to day running of a site.
recycling service, similarly toners are recycled.
54 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Business Our Social Responsibilities Right Community In addition to charitable donations, we encourage Cevahir Shopping Centre.
Part of the Savills culture includes maintaining and employees to view their role in Savills as being part We advised on the recordsupporting the communities in which our offices of a wider role in the community which has led to breaking acquisition of the six-storey Cevahir Shopping operate.
Our initiatives come from office level and are Savills being involved in a number of community Centre in Istanbul the largest in part entrepreneurial led as well as reflecting the and charitable initiatives.
In Hong Kong, a Guardian shopping mall in Europe.
A large part of the investment Scholarship Scheme has been introduced to reward The largest mall in Europe, is the time contributed, which can be more important outstanding students with grants and scholarships Cevahir is an internationally to the success of the project than a cash donation.
which is part of the philosophy that our leaders of renowned shopping destination that attracts 13 million visitors At present, we do not manage these initiatives tomorrow are recognised as our responsibility today.
Opened in 2005, it is centrally from our Head Office.
located on a site of 16.55 acres Some examples of community and charitable initiatives 6.7 hectares with a total gross area Where our employees or clients have become involved undertaken by Savills offices include: of 4.5m sq ft 420,000 sq m. in local community initiatives we have been keen to Cevahir comprises a six-storey provide support.
Employees are encouraged to sponsored drawing competitions: mall with 320 units which are let to sponsoring local school events such as tennis advertise sponsored events on the intranet and national and international retailers.
tournaments, school walks, rugby events: It also incorporates an integrated participate in joint arrangements with other organisations entertainment centre which includes sponsored sporting events such as The Professional such as a regular blood donation drive in the London a 14-screen cinema, a bowling alley Sevens in Hong Kong, 5k runs, local marathons and West End.
and a theme park which provides races, tennis tournaments, and attractions and fairground rides on Within Savills, charitable donations generally take place three floors.
sponsored fairs and evening events in aid of at a subsidiary rather than Group level.
During 2006, we advised sums are donated to a range of charitable causes St Martins on the acquisition of by our key operating subsidiaries, the total amount Cevahir for $750m, in Europes Strategy for 2007 biggest single-asset transaction of paid to charitable organisations during the year was recent years.
The deal was secured The Board of Savills plc is anxious to maintain 59,528 2005 64,007.
The choice of charity varies in two halves, through a share the entrepreneurial approach that derives from giving from each business and depends on that business, purchase agreement with the business operations a high level of commercial Cevahir family, the developer employees or clients involvement with a particular and 50% owner of the Centre, autonomy.
But so much is now impacting our charity.
Also, at Christmas, charity cards or charity and a public tender to obtain operations on a consistent basis that a working e-cards are encouraged.
the 50% stake of the Municipality group has been formed, whose aim is to develop our of Istanbul.
Throughout the Group, we encourage employees to approach to environmental and social responsibility participate within the Group operated Give as you within the Group.
Proposals will be presented to earn GAYE scheme and the bonus waiver scheme the Savills plc Board later in the year with the aim of both of which enable employees to donate to charities being rolled out as appropriate throughout the Group.
An element of the bonus waiver scheme is the Group enhances the donation to the chosen charity by 10%: during the year contributions by the Group under this scheme totalled 50,392 2005 33,100.
Details of these schemes can be found in the Directors Report on page 60.
Our Business Chief Executives Business Review Europe Cevahir Shopping Centre Istanbul, Turkey 56 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Contents 58 Board of Directors 60 Directors Report 62 Corporate Governance Report 66 Remuneration Report 76 Directors Responsibilities 77 Independent Auditors Report 57 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2006 Our Governance
