Health and Safety is an integral part of the management accountability process through all levels of the Group structure.
Health and Safety reporting occurs daily through the Groups central data capture system, through management and accountability meetings and at Board meetings.
Health and Safety training is in the main a standards based process and the programmes ensure all persons are updated with current best practice and as appropriate based upon the risks involved.
All sites have appropriate emergency arrangements.
The deep mines are members of the National Mine Rescue Service.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The Environmental Policy commitments of the Group are to: Minimise pollution and comply with environmental legislation, and any agreements with external organisations in order to comply with ISO 14001 Maintain certication of environmental management systems to international standards at all mines Set and regularly review objectives and targets to achieve continual improvement in environmental performance, including a reduction in the use of natural resources Use the principles of sustainable development to design new mines and restore completed mines to include long-term environmental or community benets Provide access to contact us about environmental issues, and give a prompt response Ensure this policy is communicated to all employees, contractors and suppliers Encourage the efficient use of coal with minimum emissions Maximise the use of other natural resources recovered with the coal Transfer to the latest version of ISO 14001, the international standard on environmental management, was achieved in May 2006, improving both the day to day operational procedures and longer-term environmental risk management on all our sites.
Our Environmental Policy is reviewed by the Board annually, and both our inhouse auditors and external experts audit the system to ensure continued compliance.
Monitoring and analysis of emissions to air, water and land, as well as the use of natural resources, are carried out and, where appropriate, programmes to reduce emissions, or to reduce the use of natural resources are designed and implemented.
As new legislative regulations on waste and resources are introduced, our programmes to encourage reduction, re-use and re-cycling, continue to show positive benets to the environment and to improve the Groups profitability.
The Groups commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions continues, and is improved through projects such as the use of methane gas from deep mines to generate electricity.
Where this is not feasible, the methane is ared.
This assists in the UK meeting its responsibilities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Kyoto agreement, as well as reducing power costs on the Groups sites.
The Environment Department liaises with our suppliers through the purchasing function to look at ways of encouraging environmentally sustainable practices throughout the supply chain.
The Environment Manager is a member of the local Practitioner Group of Business in the Environment BiE, which meets regularly with likeminded companies to share good environmental practice.
BiE is proactive in the region in the promotion and reporting of the performance of companies against a set of environmental criteria.
The success of our policies is judged internally by the use of internal Key Performance Indicators based on established criteria provided by DEFRA.
These have been introduced throughout the ongoing mining sites where appropriate reduction programmes and data collection will help us achieve our objectives.
Specic environmental successes in 2006 included, from ongoing mines, a 17% reduction in waste sent to landll sites, compared to 2005, and a reduction in townswater use from 21% of all water used in 2005 to 15% of all water used in 2006.
GAROLD SPINDLER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHRISTOPHER MAWE, FINANCE DIRECTOR UK Coal 06 Report 12.3.
A FORMER SURFACE MINE SITE IN THE NORTH EAST, AND ONE OF SIX TO HAVE WON ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS IN RECENT YEARS.
