The terms of reference for the Treasury department are approved and kept under review by the Board.
Overall Group strategy for liquidity is to maintain a secure line of credit sufficient to cover forecast cash ows for the 18 month rolling forecast.
The Treasury department is responsible for placing deposits, for arranging borrowings and for making payments.
These transactions are subject to director or senior management authorisation.
The Board regularly reviews financial instruments and the Treasury function is subject to periodic internal audits.
Key risks associated with financial instruments are: interest rate risk risks that borrowings may be subject to unfavourable interest rate movements : foreign currency risk risk that purchases or sales in foreign currencies may be subject to unfavourable exchange rate movements and liquidity risk risk that the Groups cash ow and facilities will not be sufficient to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The Groups strategy includes maintaining committed facilities, which provide adequate cover over anticipated peak borrowing requirements.
The Groups Treasury operation is also responsible for managing cash requirements and obtaining optimal returns from its cash deposits.
Cash forecasts are prepared as part of the normal budgeting process and these forecasts are regularly updated during the year.
For the short term, these forecasts are produced on a daily basis to identify periodic uctuations in cash requirements and thus enable the Group to remain within its available facilities.
Surplus cash is deposited on short-term money markets to obtain the best returns available at the time.
DISTRIBUTIONS TO AND RECEIPTS FROM SHAREHOLDERS The directors did not declare an interim dividend and are not proposing a final dividend 2005: nil.
During the year, the Company issued 7.4 million shares in a placement at a gross price of 4.06 per share generating net proceeds of 29.1m.
The Company issued a further 743,315 shares at par of 0.01 per share to full awards that had vested under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2005: nil.
EMPLOYEES The Group employed 3,884 people 2005: 4,320 on average during the year, with the reduction primarily the result of ceasing operations at Rossington and Harworth collieries.
The Group maintained its policy of maximising the re-deployment of skilled and experienced mineworkers.
The continuing review of working practices to meet the ever changing needs of the business resulted in operational and functional changes at most units, backed by training and refresher courses to further develop employee skills and safe working practices.
Regular dialogue was also maintained with the mining trade unions, particularly at the operational level where the specic requirements of each individual unit have more readily been addressed.
As part of its communications strategy, the Group has continued to produce its NewScene newspaper on a regular basis, distributed free to employees to achieve a common awareness of the financial, economic and operational factors affecting colliery and Group performance.
07. indd 41 12 3 07 18:50:56 PUPILS OF THE MALTBY CRAGS JUNIOR AND INFANTS SCHOOL NEAR ROTHERHAM, SOUTH YORKSHIRE, WHO ASKED UK COAL FOR A PITHEAD WINDING WHEEL TO BE SITED IN THE GROUNDS OF THEIR NEW 4M SCHOOL AS A MEMORIAL TO THE MINING INDUSTRY AND ITS ROLE IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITY.
