SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES The Group has maintained its policy of supporting suitable community projects focused on the surface and deep mines and also on major property development operating at the heart of the communities in which they are based.
In addition to the Community Fund commitments providing support for projects to those living close to surface mine sites, charitable donations in the year totalled 5,300 2005: 30,000.
Contributions were made to a wide range of individual and team activities, individual and group events and sporting and academic aspirations affecting all age groups.
Directors anticipate a similar level of donations to be sustained in 2007.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The directors believe that the health and safety of our employees, and persons affected by our operations, is of prime importance.
All directors are fully aware of the Companys and their own responsibilities towards Health and Safety and fully support and provide resource for systems and initiatives that promote Health and Safety.
The directors deeply regret the deaths of two experienced and highly valued employees at Daw Mill Colliery in the middle of the year, and the subsequent fatality in January 2007, and extend their deepest sympathy for the loss of these men to their families and friends.
The management is dedicated to continuing to strive to maintain controls and make improvements which will continue to keep UK COALs Health and Safety record among the world leaders in an industry that has always faced significant hazards.
Health and Safety training, risk assessment with appropriate Group and site control measures, health screening and the personalisation, through safe work instructions, of individuals roles are the key measures used to ensure Health and Safety compliance, the internal audits being carried out at sites.
During the year, the Group commissioned an audit of the key major hazards at deep mines to be undertaken by independent mining professionals at Daw Mill Colliery.
The audit identied no fundamental aws in safety practices or procedures.
The Group is represented on a number of Industry and Health and Safety Executive HSE consultation and working parties which it fully supports.
Recent work has involved industry guidance on the Prevention of Heat Illness in Mines and a series of HSE-led working parties on escape and rescue from deep mines and access and egress from large earth moving vehicles from which industry guidance will be issued.
The Group has a Health and Safety Manager supported by competent Health and Safety professionals with a direct reporting line to the Board who receive regular updates on the Group safety performance and Health and Safety strategy.
Extensive local policies and procedures are in place and all employees are subject to ongoing health surveillance.
Safety inductions are a requirement for all staff and contractors working on sites and risk assessments are carried out for all new works to be undertaken.
Regular safety audits are conducted and the results of these are reviewed and signed-off by site managers.
These are supplemented by regular visits from ofcers of the appropriate regulatory authorities.
In addition, Health and Safety is an integral part of the management accountability process and clear reporting lines for incidents and safety breaches are in place up to Board level.
Risks over health claims are mitigated by Health and Safety policies and by health monitoring.
UK COAL promotes a healthy environment and a high standard of safety for all its employees and others who may be affected by its activities.
Underlying Health and Safety statistics continue to demonstrate year on year improvements in accident and ill health incidents which are reinforced by improving trends in disease-related claims and an underlying, encouraging, accident claims handling trend.
The two deaths in 2006 followed a period since 2001 during which there were no fatal accidents.
In 2006, 30 27 deep mines, two surface mines and one other major injury accidents were reported to the Health and Safety Executive compared to 34 in 2005.
For the Group the overall reportable injury rate was 27.8 accidents per 100,000 manshifts 2005: 27.0 accidents per 100,000 manshifts.
The Group will continue through the direction of management and the involvement and commitment of our employees to target further improvements in 2007.
The Group carries out extensive health surveillance in order to enhance its development of risk control strategies, as the health of our employees, within an ageing workforce, is key to the success of the business.
Health surveillance covers both work and life style issues and as an organisation we are seen as being at the forefront of this type of pro-active approach to health.
