Business Review As we enter 2007 we will further increase our Project delivery and modular People building delivery capability by bringing together Our modular capabilities remain a core part of our our strong project management and modular strategy and helped to ensure that projects were 2006 also saw some important organisational capabilities into a new organisational unit.
The delivered on time and at the best cost.
This year changes to support the work of our city based expectation is that this will better position us to over 63% 2005:51% of our delivered beds were teams and to sharpen the alignment of our capture a larger share of the value in the supply modular allowing more rapid development than objectives right across the organisation from chain and so improve our development margin.
would otherwise have been possible.
acquisition to project delivery, to support functions The continuing interest in student accommodation and customer facing teams.
We continue to invest in our modular capability.
as an asset class is putting new pressure on the This year saw the development of modular units In particular we have listened to the feedback from development market place and we are seeing capable of being used in buildings of up to 10 our people who wanted to remove some of the increased competition for development sites.
This floors compared to the previous limit of up to 7 artificial barriers imposed by our previous divisional could constrain development margins in the near floors.
This unique approach is being used in 2 structure.
Going forward, the new structure, which term.
However, UNITEs unique mix of buildings that will open in 2007, and will further aligns people to teams focused on either London or development expertise, modular capabilities and increase the development opportunities that we regional UK cities, will help us stay geographically the creation of our new Delivery organisation will be able to take advantage of see page 21. and functionally closer to our customers.
We have means we are well placed to continue to succeed also merged together our modular manufacturing in this market place.
and project management teams to assist the smooth delivery of our new properties.
As a values-orientated business, we attract and The development portfolio retain a highly talented team of people who in turn seek challenging, meaningful and rewarding Beds Completed careers.
Our people have embraced the changes value and our employee engagement measures Secured future developments: m continued within the top 10% of UK companies.
2007 - UNITE 3,090 182 UNITE also featured in the 2006 Guardian Top - JV 601 59 Employers survey.
3,691 241 In 2006 we also began building our relationship with Leeds Metropolitan University in order to 2008 - UNITE 2,596 209 launch the UK's first ever Diploma in Student - JV 1,105 134 Hospitality Management.
This is scheduled to 3,701 343 start with a pilot cohort in October 2007.
2006 saw our second graduate recruitment round: 2009 4,086 281 eight gradates have been recruited to train across a 11,478 865 variety of functions.
At the end of 2006 the Group employed 940 full time equivalent people, a 13.5% increase in headcount on 2005, principally recruited to support the management of our growing property portfolio.
16 risks and uncertainties The assessment and management of risk is designed into the way we operate our business.
A summary of major risks and mitigating actions are summarised below: Risk Description Impact Mitigation GENERAL RISKS People Unable to attract, retain and motivate the Reduces the ability to deliver UNITE is a values based organisation.
This best people business strategy means we recruit to a clear set of values and seek to develop our people to their full potential.
We measure through regular employee satisfaction surveys and act on employee feedback.
Reputation risk Inability to grow and protect UNITEs brand Decline in lettings Experienced brand, sales and marketing teams.
Reduce ability to attract the best people Measurement of customer satisfaction and response to customer feedback.
Weaker relationships with university clients, planners and other stakeholders Strong focus on service.
Dedicated health and safety team.
Reputation audit with key stakeholders undertaken in 2006.
INVESTMENT Market cycles Property markets are cyclical Under over performance of investment portfolio Portfolio risk Concentration of assets in student market Reduced student numbers impacting Geographical diversification.
financial performance Long term contractual relationships with Universities underpin 29% of the portfolio bed spaces.
Letting risk Risk arising from short term nature Revenues are uncertain Geographical diversification.
of tenancies Long term contractual relationships with Universities underpin the revenue from 29% of the beds.
DEVELOPMENT Planning risk Development and planning expertise including: Development projects do not achieve sufficient Unable to progress developments in line Strong and collaborative relationships with key support to achieve planning consent with plans stakeholders.
Skilled development teams with a good understanding of the sector.
Construction risk Construction projects are delivered late Returns are reduced and cash tied up Use of UNITE unique modular technology or over budget reducing delivery and cost risk.
Strong relationships with key construction partners with appropriate risk sharing.
Strong organisational focus on project delivery.
FINANCE Funding Lack of available funds Unable to progress development opportunities Creation of the UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund.
Gearing reduced from historic levels.
Interest Interest rates rise Increased borrowing costs UNITE hedges 70% 90% of its investment debt.
Our process for managing risk is set out in more detail on page 30 of the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
