Business Review with our clear strategy and sustainable business model we aim to capitalise on our position AS the uk's most successful student hospitality company.
Pilot a new accommodation proposition for Investments Strategy graduates and young professionals.
A As ss se et t lle ea as se e- -u up p a an nd d s st ta ab biilliis sa at tiio on n..
Following We will move beyond our existing reach to pilot practical completion of each new development, UNITE has developed a unique set of skills in site a new accommodation proposition for it takes approximately two years for the asset acquisition, planning and modular construction graduates and young professionals, focused in to stabilise operationally in terms of occupancy which gives us a competitive edge for the London.
We will open our first pilot project later and net rent generated.
UNITE has unrivalled continued growth of our business.
We have in 2007 and establish medium term growth expertise in ensuring the optimal stabilisation pioneered professional management for student targets for this new business in early 2008. of assets.
At 31 December 2006 UNITE accommodation and, combined with powerful managed approximately 8,000 bed spaces 3.
Create a unique and sustainable building market insight, have been able to differentiate our across stabilising properties worth a total of delivery solution.
brand by seeking to understand our customers approximately 340m.
5,500 of these bed needs and evolving our product and service to We aim to build upon our existing modular spaces were wholly owned value circa 220m deliver their desired experience.
building technology and project management and the remainder were held in joint ventures.
capability to create a unique and sustainable We now set out a clear strategy for growth over 3.
IIn nv five es st tm me en nt t iin n a an nd d m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t o of f s st ta ab biilliis se ed d building delivery solution that gives us a real the next five years.
iin nv five es st tm me en nt t a as ss se et ts s.. At 31 December 2006, edge over our competitors.
We aim to double the size of our student UNITE managed a stabilised investment portfolio hospitality business in the UK.
of approximately 23,000 bed spaces valued at A Sustainable 1.1 billion, circa 10,000 of these bed spaces We intend to double the net rent derived from Business Model were wholly owned value circa 440 million, our portfolio and optimise the return to UNITE 13,000 value 650 million were owned through through innovative capital structures designed UNITEs business model operates in three distinct vehicles in which UNITE has a substantial minority to ensure the Group retains funding capacity streams, two of which form the investment segment stake.
Where UNITE is not the sole owner of for its growth plans.
We expect this growth to the other the development segment each with a assets, it receives management fees for its come through both organic development capital structure designed to deliver best value: property and asset management services.
In activity and through consistent year on year addition UNITE manages 3,000 bed spaces on growth in net rents as a result of careful Development behalf of third parties.
investment decisions and operational expertise.
D fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t a ac ct tiiv viit ty y.. UNITE is responsible for approximately 200m per annum of The principal investment vehicle for owning Development activity will be weighted towards investment in acquiring and developing new stabilised investment assets is the UNITE UK London, which has significant untapped student accommodation across the UK.
In the Student Accommodation Fund USAF, in which potential, with more focused opportunities case of developments in London and the Group had a 39% stake at 31 December being pursued elsewhere in the UK.
Edinburgh, this activity is currently typically 2006.
USAF has sufficient capital, and is obliged, Net rental growth will be delivered through carried out in a joint venture in which the to acquire further assets from UNITE as they focusing on UNITEs business needs in each Group has a 30% stake.
Elsewhere, reach stabilisation and, as these assets are sold individual market, supported by a national representing the majority of development to the fund, the equity investment released is brand to capture and share best practice and activity, UNITE develops in its own right.
reinvested in new development activity.
secure operational economies of scale.
A sustainable business model Development Activity stabilising assets CO-InvestING FUND & ASSET MANAGER 200m per annum Rental Growth strategy Expert student accommodation management and marketing skills Increasing london focus and typically two years olD other high value markets investment of assets Capital recycled back into development activity 9
