ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL POLICIES The Group is engaged in a broad range of activities that give it the potential to make a significant positive contribution to the UKs environmental Balance Sheet.
At a time when issues such as global climate to redevelop some 3.4 hectares of such land.
Adopting measures to protect workers, visitors change are uppermost in the minds of many and the public from exposure to unacceptable Making intensive use of the sites that it stakeholders, the Group is determined to ensure risks and hazards.
In 2006 we achieved an average of that it operates in a way that will come to 1,122 habitable rooms per hectare, compared represent best practice in this area.
with an average of only 200 rooms in typical In its internal operations, the Company will: The Group is committed to sustainable private residential use.
Be responsive to public attitudes and concerns.
development, and will strive to fully understand Making extensive use of modular construction and enhance the social, economic and Ensure all building, maintenance and service techniques.
In 2006 over 63% of our new environmental impact of its activities.
It is operations are optimised to save energy, projects were modular, which brings significant concerned for the environmental well being of water and waste.
reductions in material wastage over traditional the communities in which it invests and complies construction methods.
It also incorporates Return used materials for recycling.
with all relevant environmental legislation and around 30% less material by weight than regulations.
The Group seeks to protect the Ensure that company vehicles are maintained traditional masonry techniques but retains a health and safety of its employees and promote regularly to reduce exhaust emissions and design life expectancy of around 100 years.
environmental awareness amongst them, economise on fuel usage.
Striving to eliminate the use of materials its customers, contractors and suppliers.
Maintain a safe and healthy working containing CFC and HCFC as alternatives The above statement forms the framework of the environment for the well being of employees.
Conserving energy through improved insulation and the use of energy efficient heating and Mr M C Allan, Chief Executive Officer of the The Groups environmental policy is lighting systems.
In 2006 we were amongst the Group, has responsibility for ensuring that the implemented through: first of the UKs businesses to develop a policy described above is observed.
The Board, coherent response to the revised Part L building as a whole, reviews implementation of such policy Observing all local environmental control regulations within our construction activities.
and considers any amendments thought policies and relevant environmental regulations.
Specifying, where practicable, that building Reviewing all proposed developments to assess materials and furnishings come from Initiatives implemented include the introduction of the presence of any contamination and the sustainable sources.
waste re-cycling schemes at the Groups office means of remediation, if required.
locations and at its accommodation blocks and Applying effective waste management Inspecting all land and buildings owned by the the adoption of a UNITE Code of Ethics.
The basic procedures to ensure that developments do not Group to ascertain whether environmental tenet of the Code the full text of which can be cause an increase in air, water or ground damage has occurred or is at risk of occurring.
found on the Companys web-site, is that the pollution.
Group seeks at all times to conduct its business Informing tenants of good energy management Enhancing landscaping and external aspects in accordance with, and to ensure that each of its practices.
in harmony with existing surroundings.
employees and directors adheres to, the highest standards of business and personal ethics.
An Adopting best health and safety at work In building, design and construction the independent whistle-blowing channel also practices.
following measures are applied: enables employees to report any incidents of Limiting nuisance from noise, dust and hazards.
improper or illegal conduct of which they may Re-developing brown-field sites where Endeavouring to limit waste generation, become aware whilst, if they wish, maintaining practicable.
In 2006 all of our new buildings discharges and emissions and handling wastes their anonymity.
were situated on brown-field sites, allowing us in a responsible manner.
26 allotment of shares in connection with any rights Auditors Annual General Meeting issue or other issue by way of rights and In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies The Annual General Meeting of the Company will otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of Act 1985, a resolution for the re-appointment be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol 1,538,160 representing five per cent of the of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company BS1 6JZ at 9.30 a. m. on 17 May 2007.
Formal issued share capital of the Company as at 7 is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual notice of the meeting is given on pages 70 to 71.
The Board has no current intention General Meeting.
In addition to the ordinary business of the of exercising either authority.
meeting, an ordinary resolution will be proposed to authorise the Directors to allot up to By order of the Board 10,254,404 in nominal value of the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company A D Reid representing one third of the issued share capital Secretary of the Company as at 7 March 2007.
A special resolution will also be proposed to dis-apply 7 March 2007 statutory pre-emption rights in respect of the
