Environmental and social report As a pioneer of urban regeneration, Berkeley is committed to Governance making significant, long term contributions to the environmental, The board-level Sustainability Governance Committee SGC social and economic fabric of the communities in which the has the responsibility of overseeing the Groups strategy and Group works.
Meeting twice-yearly, and attended by external consultants, the SGCs establishment reflects the importance At Berkeley, the term Sustainability describes how it that Berkeley attaches to the direct link between its business manages its corporate environmental, social and economic and sustainability.
As such, Berkeley considers sustainability to encompass its wide-ranging corporate responsibilities, At the next level, Sustainability Working Group SWG sometimes referred to by its peers as CSR.
With this meetings are held once a quarter and are attended by embedded in its business practices, Berkeley is able to Board directors, senior managers from across the company, respond to its stakeholders aspirations and concerns, and external consultants.
It is responsible for disseminating allowing it to demonstrate how its business activities achieve sustainability strategy across the Divisions, as well as these objectives.
Berkeley Homes, St George and St James, meanwhile, each have their own internal Berkeleys sustainability performance has been measured Sustainability Working Groups.
All reporting to the Groups since 2002 against a number of key performance indicators, SWG, these groups further embed the daily practice of which are reviewed regularly to ensure their continuing sustainability within the business.
They are supported at relevance and impact.
project level by meetings convened to implement sustainability priorities and procedures on individual sites.
Further information on Berkeleys Sustainability strategy, activities, objectives and performance can be found in its Sustainable development 2006 Sustainability Report on its website Berkeleys strategy of focusing on complex, mixed-use urban www.
regeneration schemes places sustainable development at the core of its business activities.
co. uk Berkeleys focus on bringing redundant land in the UK back to Berkeley understands that people want to live in homes that life means that it has consistently exceeded the Governments are both affordable and accessible, but also of good quality, target of 60% development of new housing on brownfield and that it is important to communicate to customers and land.
Indeed, at least 95% of Berkeleys developments have purchasers the sustainability of the developments we build.
been on brownfield land over the last five years.
In addition, Berkeley recognises that the satisfaction of the customer is fundamental to the on-going success of the As the construction process is the most disruptive part business.
In addition to a 4 star rating in the recent Home of its development activities, Berkeley views its management Builders Federation Survey, Berkeley continues to receive of construction as a point of key focus along the journey to strong customer satisfaction and recommendation feedback creating sustainable communities.
Specifically, Berkeley continues to place emphasis on Obtaining recognition for its work in this field is important and the importance of construction waste management and Berkeley is delighted to continue to receive awards the environmental impact of the materials it uses on and external recognition for sustainability, including the its developments.
WWF Insight Investment Sustainability Survey, BURA 2005 Regeneration Award for Gunwharf Quays, and continued Coupled with these issues, the need to understand the wider inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index for socially environmental impacts of Berkeleys developments, including responsible investment.
those relating to climate change, and Berkeley continues to focus on technology improvements, including renewable Stakeholder engagement energy and the reductions in car use on its developments Berkeley is committed to engaging with its stakeholders.
to help significantly reduce carbon emissions.
At a Group level this includes corporate stakeholders and at a Divisional level it addresses the concerns and aspirations of development specific stakeholders.
Key sustainability performance indicators In 2005 06 87% of sites commencing construction were implementing Site Waste Management Plans Brownfield utilisation % in line with the DTIs Code of Practice Key Performance 100 98 98 98 96 Rising landfill taxes, changes in the waste acceptance criteria and the environmental impacts associated with waste means Indicators it is a critical issue for the Group to address.
Berkeley understands these business imperatives and, following the waste review undertaken last year, Berkeley set a target to implement Site Waste Management Plans on its sites.
The Group has set the requirement that these SWMPs must 100 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 comply with the nine steps set out in the DTIs Code of Practice, which enables it to manage and reduce the waste Berkeleys focus on regenerating redundant land in the UK it produces.
80 means that it has consistently exceeded the Government target of 60% development of new housing on brownfield The Group has set a target that, as a minimum, 90% of land.
100% of the land it has developed in the past year sites commencing construction must implement SWMPs 60 is on brownfield land.
However, the Group does not intend in line with the DTIs Code of Practice.
This will enable the to maintain this performance, but aims instead to ensure that Group to adequately prepare for any future legislation which at least 95% of its development is on brownfield land.
may require SWMPs to be implemented on all sites.
40 20 Holborough, Kent Berkeley Homes 0 www.
co. uk 23 Environmental and social report continued In Berkeleys view, a stakeholder is anyone that either affects has created a unique sense of purpose for the people in or is affected by our activities.
We have identified a range of each business and empowered them to succeed, so building stakeholders at Group, Divisional and project level.
a highly talented and loyal workforce.
These include: Berkeley is firmly committed to the continuation and Customers strengthening of communication lines with all employees.
Investors In the past year, Berkeley has relaunched its intranet and is Joint Venture partners placing an increasing emphasis on this as a tool to enhance Local Communities communication within the Group.
The intranet contains Employees a specific sustainability area, which allows employees access Contractors and Suppliers to a wide range of information including guidance notes, Housing Associations case studies and performance data.
Industry bodies Government From time to time, Berkeley brings together directors from Non-Government and Research organisations all its divisions to share experiences and best practice and discuss the vision for the future.
In December 2005, A key driver in many of Berkeleys stakeholder relationships a directors conference was held, bringing together the is its concern to form partnerships at many stages of the 100 senior people from around the Group for an intensive development process, with individuals, communities and two days of workshops and presentations from both internal public agencies.
In Berkeleys experience, this is essential and external presenters.
It was a great success, both to the success of the type of regeneration it has evolved.
nurturing the entrepreneurial culture which is at Berkeleys heart, and generating new and innovative strategies for facing Employee involvement and communication some of the continuing challenges on the operational side Berkeleys management philosophy is demanding and of the business.
Environmental and social issues were at the centres on the devolution of operational responsibility and forefront of the conferences agenda.
accountability to autonomous management teams.
co. uk Berkeley continues to attract talented young individuals into Achieving such high standards provides even further incentive the company through the Berkeley Graduate Training for a constant attention to improvement.
This programme aims to provide its graduates consistently audited and reported back to the Group Main with the foundations for a successful career with the Group.
Board, further cementing Occupational Health and Safetys In 2005, Berkeley recruited nine graduates, five women and strategic importance to Berkeleys business.
four men, from a variety of academic disciplines.
Each of its graduates has taken up placements within the Groups divisions where they are given experience in all the major disciplines of the business.
Health and Safety As a responsible business, Berkeley not only demonstrates compliance with the law, but also sets universal standards of individual and collective behaviour in all of its activities.
Nowhere is this more important than in the area of occupational health and safety, where Berkeleys commitment to all of its employees is absolute.
Implemented on every site, health and safety management systems ensure that these policies remain a foundation of Berkeleys business.
Their success is reflected by, among other indicators, the number of site managers who completed the five-day CITB Site Managers training course 91% in the past year.
It is also reflected by the numerous industry awards that Berkeley has received over the past year, such as Building Magazines Best Housebuilders Safety Initiative for 2005.
Key sustainability performance indicators Average customer satisfaction % Average RIDDOR incident rates per 1,000 employees on all sites Would you recommend Berkeley to your best friend?
Average customer satisfaction Key Performance 90 86 76 74 73 Indicators 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 2001 02 11.4 2005 06 4.5 100 Berkeley recognises that without customers it would not Health and safety is an integral part of good site ART have a business.
Their response to the product it builds management.
Berkeley continues to demonstrate strong and the service it provides is vital to Berkeleys on-going performance in this area.
This data includes sites where 80 success.
Berkeley has continued to perform strongly in the company is the principle contractor and those where relation to customer service, and was pleased to be given it does not have primary management responsibility for a four star rating in the most recent annual Home Builders health and safety.
Over the past five years, Berkeley has 60 Federation Survey.
decreased the incident rate by 60%.
40 Knowle Village, Hampshire Berkeley Homes www.
