36 3i Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility Our approach Core values: Philosophy As an international business operating in 14 countries with over 700 employees world-wide, 3i aims We believe that the highest to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
standard of integrity is essential It is committed to being a responsible member of the communities in which it operates and recognises the mutual in business.
In all our activities, benefits of engaging and building relationships with those communities.
3i believes that respect for human rights is we aim to: central to good corporate citizenship.
In everything 3i does, it aims to be commercial and fair, to be commercial and fair: maintain its integrity and professionalism and to respect the needs of shareholders, staff, suppliers, the local community respect the needs of our and the businesses in which it invests.
shareholders, our staff, our 3i endeavours to comply with the laws, regulations and rules applicable to its business and to conduct its business in suppliers, the local community accordance with established best practice in each of the countries in which it operates.
Environmental, ethical and and the businesses in which social responsibility issues and standards are also taken into we invest: consideration in every aspect of the business.
3i aims to be a responsible employer and has adopted corporate maintain our integrity and values and standards designed to help guide its employees in their conduct and business relationships.
These values and professionalism: and standards are an integral part of 3is culture.
strive for continual improvement Responsibilities and accountabilities The Board as a whole is responsible for ethical standards.
The executive Directors are and innovation.
responsible for ensuring compliance with 3is corporate values and standards.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee the Committee considers and reviews environmental, ethical and social issues relevant to 3is business.
It promotes awareness of these issues across the business through training and communication.
It promotes the development of corporate responsibility policies, procedures and initiatives and monitors and reviews their operation.
3i is a constituent of the 2006 Tony Brierley, Chairman of 3is Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Corporate Responsibility Committee, is also a member of the Leadership Team of Business in the Environment, the environment programme of Business in the Community, a business-led charity whose purpose is to engage and support companies to improve the impact they have on society.
3i Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility 37 The Committee, on behalf of the Board, identifies and assesses 3i recognises that the most significant risks to 3is short-term the significant risks and opportunities for 3i arising from social, and long-term value from environmental, ethical and social ethical and environmental issues.
A risk matrix methodology is matters arise from its investment business.
If a company used to identify new risks, monitor developing trends and best in which 3i has an investment acts irresponsibly on corporate practice, and consider changes in 3is business and culture.
responsibility issues, this may affect the monetary value of This risk matrix and a log of identified risks is reviewed and that investment and, as a shareholder in that company, raise updated at meetings of the Committee and significant risks reputational issues for 3i.
are reported to 3is Risk Committee.
The Committee reports Although 3i does not have operational control over the regularly to the Board.
companies in which it invests, it does have the opportunity to As Chairman of the Committee, Tony Brierley, has specific influence the behaviour of these businesses and encourages responsibility for 3is environmental policies, leading the the development and adoption of good corporate governance.
development of new initiatives and targets and reporting to This is achieved through the training of investment staff and the Board.
non-executive Directors who are appointed to the boards of investee companies and the raising of awareness within All employees have a responsibility to be aware of, and to abide investee companies of social, environmental and ethical issues.
by, 3is policies and procedures which have been developed to 3i is also active in promoting good governance in the private guide staff and regulate the conduct of the day to day operations equity industry through the provision of tutors for courses of the business.
These policies and procedures include 3is run by the BVCA and the EVCA.
environmental, ethical and social policies, and are available to all employees through 3is portal, a web-based knowledge system.
Investment procedures 3i has policies and procedures to Employees are encouraged to make suggestions to improve reduce the risks of 3i investing in businesses which operate in these policies and procedures.
an environmentally, ethically or socially unacceptable manner.
Details of these policies and procedures may be found on As an investor 3is website at www.
When reviewing businesses Investment policy 3i has a portfolio of over 1,000 investments for potential investment, investment executives are required to in businesses across Europe, Asia and the US.
As an investor, consider whether any corporate responsibility risks arise and, corporate governance is a priority and account is taken of if any risks are identified, to follow 3is corporate responsibility environmental, ethical and social issues when making investment investment procedures.
Depending on the nature of the risk decisions.
3i believes it is important to invest in companies whose identified and its seriousness, a condition precedent or post owners and managers act responsibly on environmental, ethical completion undertaking requiring that the situation be and social matters.
remedied may be required from the investee company or its management.
Alternatively, it may be decided not to proceed 3i aims to invest in companies which: with the investment.
respect human rights: Over the year more than 1,600 potential investments were comply with current environmental, ethical and considered and 58 new investments were completed.
social legislation: Over 1,500 potential investments did not proceed for financial or commercial reasons including, in some cases, have proposals to address defined future legislation: and for social, ethical or environmental considerations.
seek to comply with their industry standards and best practice.
Corporate responsibility 38 3i Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility Where, after an investment has been made, 3i becomes aware As a corporate that an investee company is not operating in an acceptable way, As an employer 3is staff are fundamental to the success of its 3i will seek to use its influence to encourage improvement.
Accordingly, one of 3is core values is to respect its Where that is not possible, 3i will seek to divest itself of staff and their needs.
Employees are organised in small teams and an environment of During the year, processes were put in place to monitor more co-operation is encouraged to ensure the highest standards of closely the number of potential investments in respect of which integrity and professionalism.
detailed due diligence was undertaken, and the number of In accordance with 3is core values, individual consultation investments in the portfolio reviewed as part of 3is portfolio with employees on matters affecting them, and fair and management processes, where environmental, social or ethical open communication, are a high priority.
During the year, a issues were identified, the nature of the issues identified and confidential survey of all staff world-wide was undertaken by action taken as a result.
A summary of the results of this Ipsos MORI to ascertain the attitudes of staff towards 3i.
91% of monitoring for the year to 31 March 2007 will be reported staff participated in this survey.
The survey revealed that 3i in the 2007 Corporate responsibility report.
compared favourably with other leading companies, exceeding Relationship management 3is key relationships are with the the Ipsos MORI norm a database maintained by Ipsos MORI companies in which it invests, together with the intermediaries, recording average scores achieved by companies against a range advisers and consultants used to facilitate investment and of frequently asked questions in 15 of 21 categories.
3i actively engages with these groups level of employee engagement was disclosed with an overall to benchmark its performance and improve its investment score of 84%.
The survey also revealed high levels of satisfaction, procedures and skills.
with 90% of staff indicating that they had interesting work, 89% of staff referring to the good working atmosphere at 3i, and high During the year to 31 March 2006, market perception studies levels of staff morale at 22 points above the Ipsos MORI Top Ten were undertaken in the UK, France, Germany, Spain and Sweden.
The results of the survey were considered by the Board As part of these studies, interviews were conducted with and senior management and subsequently shared and discussed companies in which 3i has invested, potential companies for with individual teams within the business and actions agreed as investment and with intermediaries and advisers with whom relevant and appropriate.
3i deals as part of the investment process.
The results of these studies have been used to refine the way 3i interfaces with the 3i has comprehensive behaviour policies to help ensure that companies in which it invests and the markets in which it employees treat their colleagues and others with courtesy operates, and to develop further the training of 3is investment and respect.
3i also has a whistle blowing policy setting out procedures for staff to raise in confidence matters of concern, for an appropriate and independent investigation of such matters and, where necessary, for follow-up action.
Our people Employee engagement is the extent to which employees are committed to their role, their team and the Group and its objectives.
How effectively they work as a result of this commitment and levels of retention are indicators of engagement.
3i supports the European Venture Philanthropy Association and was a founding sponsor in 2004.
3i Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility 39 Training and development 3i is committed to encouraging Health and safety 3i recognises that the promotion of the continuous development of the skills of its staff with the health and safety at work is an essential function of staff and objective of maximising the overall performance of the business.
In an endeavour to achieve high Emphasis is placed on work-based learning, with the provision of standards, appropriate policies and procedures have been put development opportunities supported by appropriate coaching in place.
Details of these policies and procedures can be found and mentoring.
This is supplemented by more formal training on 3is website at www.
A Health and Safety programmes, such as workshops to enhance the board Committee has been established to oversee the application of management skills of 3is investment staff.
In addition, 3is health and safety policies and procedures and to consider investment staff are required to complete an investment training health and safety risks across the business.
programme on joining 3i, and professional services staff are The purpose of 3is health and safety policy is to enable all supported in developing their functional specialisms through members of 3is staff to go about their everyday business at external courses, networks and forums.
During the year, 185 3is offices in the expectation that they can do so safely and employees attended internal training and development courses.
without risk to their health.
High standards of health and safety It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all executives are applied to staff and sub-contractors and 3i endeavours to involved in making or managing investment transactions ensure that the health, safety and welfare of its employees, receive anti-money laundering training and periodic refresher visitors, customers, sub-contractors staff and the general public training.
A programme of training is in place to discharge these are not compromised.
3is objective is not to have any reportable accidents or incidents.
A programme of role-play-based workshops across the business During the year to 31 March 2006, one minor reportable and regular articles in 3is staff magazine are used to raise accident occurred under UK Health and Safety regulations.
awareness of corporate responsibility issues, to stimulate debate No reportable accidents or incidents occurred under similar and provide employee training.
During the year, a programme of regulations outside the UK.
20 staff workshops, covering all locations world-wide where As a member of Tommys Pregnancy Accreditation Programme, 3i operates was completed.
To follow up on this programme of 3i complies with criteria for pregnancy management, geared employee engagement and training, sector-based workshops towards creating a positive environment for parents-to-be and training courses have now been developed for investment in the workplace.
The objectives of these workshops are to ensure that staff remain fully informed of 3is corporate responsibility policies, to Procurement 3i has developed policies and procedures relating identify and raise awareness to specific sector or geographical to the purchasing of goods and services for use by the business.
issues and to gain input to the formulation of policy.
During the These policies and procedures must be followed by all staff.
year, two such workshops were held for investment executives As far as possible, 3i will work only with suppliers who support in 3is Oil and Gas and Healthcare sector teams respectively and 3is aim to source products responsibly.
Suppliers that exploit further workshops are planned.
child or sweated labour, that disregard social legislation and basic health and safety provision, that pirate the intellectual Training for Directors on corporate responsibility issues is property of others or that wilfully and avoidably damage the achieved through a system of regular Board reporting and by environment will be avoided.
Details of 3is procurement policies Board presentations on relevant corporate responsibility issues.
may be found on 3is website at www.
3i aims to have a collaborative relationship with its suppliers and, wherever possible, when problems arise with a suppliers performance or behaviour, will work with the supplier concerned to help them meet 3is requirements.
3i helped to found 3i has continued its financial businessdynamics almost support to InKinddirect, 30 years ago and has continued a charity distributing its support throughout this manufacturers surplus goods time.
In 2005, over 86,000 to voluntary organisations.
students benefited from InKinddirect not only helps businessdynamics programmes.
reduce costs for charities but also helps the environment.
40 3i Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility Environment As a financial services business employing Corporate responsibility issues and the environment approximately 740 employees world-wide, 3is direct The principal benchmarks against which 3i measures its direct impact environmental impact is relatively low.
However, 3i measures its on the environment are for CO emissions: and recycling of paper 2 own energy and resource usage where practicable and sets and other materials.
A benchmark against which 3i measures its performance is for CO emissions associated with its 2 Charity and community 3is charitable policy aims to support: office accommodation.
During the year, steps were taken to causes based in the communities in which 3i has offices: improve the collection and accuracy of data used in support of this measure.
As a result, office related CO emissions generated charitable activities of staff.
3i matches donations made 2 in the year to 31 March 2005 have been reassessed at by UK staff under the Give As You Earn scheme GAYE approximately 6,964 tonnes.
Over the two years to 31 March and the proceeds of staff fundraising efforts.
In the year 2007, 3i aims to reduce this total by 6%.
In the year to to 31 March 2006, approximately 26% of 3is charitable 31 March 2006, CO emissions attributable to office donations were matching GAYE donations: 2 accommodation of approximately 6,763 tonnes were generated.
charities relevant to its corporate activity.
For example, Although this was only a small reduction, the year included only 3i founded and supports businessdynamics, a charity which one month of 3is occupation of new, more energy-efficient aims to inspire young people to become involved in, and offices in London, expected to generate significant savings.
3i also aims to reduce the amount of waste generated per person per week and, where possible, to recycle paper and other office Charitable donations made in the UK in the year to 31 March materials.
This measure was also distorted by the move of 3is 2006 amounted to 390,570, supporting a variety of different head office, which generated a temporary increase in waste.
charities with donations up to 35,000.
Office items and equipment no longer required as a result of this move were, where possible and practical, either donated to charity via InKinddirect or recycled.
3i assesses the environmental standards of suppliers and, through its procurement policy and its purchasing choices, will favour products showing clear environmental advantages unless there are significant reasons for not so doing.
3i supports Community Links, an innovative inner-city charity running community-based projects in London.
Founded in 1977, it now helps over 50,000 vulnerable people a year.
3i Report and accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility 41 Performance and measurement 3is performance management appraisal process reviews the The Committee has overseen the formulation and performance of individual members of staff against agreed implementation of corporate responsibility investment objectives and the knowledge, skills and behaviours expected by procedures, implemented appropriate risk management 3i.
This process includes 360 degree feedback for all employees.
procedures and set strategic targets and objectives for corporate All 3is offices are the subject of health and safety audits to responsibility.
ensure high standards are adopted on a consistent basis 3is performance is measured against two indices: world-wide.
3is health and safety procedures are also independently audited by the British Safety Council to evaluate the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI, a global the health and safety management system.
3i maintains a index which tracks the financial performance of leading four star rating as a result of this evaluation process.
companies in terms of corporate sustainability: and the Business in the Community BitC Corporate Audit and verification Responsibility Index, which aims to benchmark environmental, The Committee is responsible for monitoring the operation of 3is ethical and social performance and encourage sustainable corporate responsibility policies and procedures.
and management of corporate responsibility risks is integral to the ongoing operational processes of 3is business units and 3i has again been selected as a constituent of the DJSI during functions.
3is internal audit function carries out periodic the year and was placed in the top of its industry group on independent reviews of risks and related controls in this area, a global basis.
3i was also recognised as one of the best including compliance with 3is corporate responsibility investment companies on a global basis in respect of its codes of conduct, procedures.
3i aims to continue to be included within this Index.
The Committee may also supplement internal review processes with external reviews where necessary.
The Committee is not In 2005 3i again participated in the annual BitC Corporate aware of any material breaches in the application of 3is internal Responsibility Index.
3i was included in the BitCs Top 100 policies and procedures for managing risks from corporate Companies that Count and was recognised for its outstanding responsibility issues.
performance in the area of marketplace management.
The disclosures in this Corporate responsibility report are the subject of a process requiring each statement made to Each of 3is business unit and department heads is required be verified.
to confirm on an annual basis that their operating procedures, including investment procedures, are consistent with 3is standards and controls and that these procedures are operating in practice.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Tony Brierley, Company Secretary and Chairman of the Committee, Denise Collis, Group Human Resources Director, Patrick Dunne, Group Communications Director, Douwe Cosijn, Head of Investor Relations, Albert Xu, an Investment Director in 3is Asia investment business, Hans Middelthon, an investment executive in 3is Oil and Gas team, Ben Gales, an Associate in 3is UK Venture Capital team and Michael Robinson, a Director responsible for 3is SMI portfolio.
