A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 4 1 Corporate responsibility The Admiral Group is committed to This initiative is supported by Henrys dealing fairly and with a high level Pot.
This fund started in 1999 and of integrity with all its stakeholders.
allows staff to apply for a donation or This includes its actions and policies sponsorship toward an organisation of towards staff, the local communities in their choice.
In 2006, 109 awards were which both the business operates and made from this fund to all kinds of our staff live, and the environment.
Workplace We also believe that it is important We believe the happier our staff for our staff to understand what are, the better they will do their are the Companys goals and job.
This means that we constantly objectives: consequently we work work to improve our staffs working to communicate this in as many environment.
During 2006 the Group ways as possible.
As an example, we relocated 650 people to brand new encourage staff to attend our Annual offices in Swansea Bay from offices Staff General Meeting SGM.
The SGM within the town centre.
We also try to is arranged to enable staff to hear the make sure that the working day for our views of the Executive Directors and staff is as fun and rewarding as we can some of the Non-executive Directors make it.
on a wide range of subjects including the performance of the Group and We are one of the leading employers the market within which we operate: in the South Wales region, and the experiences of Non-executive employ people from a wide range of Directors within and outside of the communities.
The Group encourages Group: and the Groups share plans.
staff to get involved in local We believe that employing wellcommunities and projects that are informed staff will provide the best important to both them and their possible service to our customers.
This can range from the local football club to an amateur dramatics Top Departments Award Winners society.
Born Free & Childline Recycling Corporate responsibility 41 - 45 4 2 C O R P O R At e R e S P O N S I B I L I t y The best measures of our staffs Restricted Share Plan, although the assessment of their working name is somewhat misleading as environment are the surveys that awards approved by the Board in 2006 they have completed.
Following amounted to over 681,000 free shares, independent measurement by the which were distributed amongst 380 organisations involved Admiral has staff, including those in our Spanish received the following awards: operation.
Both schemes have overall Group performance criteria The Sunday Times 100 Best Companies applied to them.
Admiral Sponsored Festival of Sport to Work For Admiral has been included in all seven years of the Further detail on these schemes is set publication and was ranked 21st overall in out in the Financial Review.
Disability The Financial Times 100 Best Workplaces The Group gives fair consideration in the UK we have been included in all to all applicants.
The abilities and four years of the publication aptitudes of the applicant will be considered with regard to the 100 Best Workplaces in the EU requirement of the job for which he or again Admiral has been included in all she has applied.
Employees who find four years.
themselves no longer able to carry out the job for which they are employed Staff share schemes will be given individual consideration.
The Group operates two share schemes Depending on the nature, severity, and that give staff actual and prospective duration of the disability, they may share ownership.
All staff are eligible be considered for an alternative post to receive shares under the Approved within the Group.
Admiral continues Share Incentive Plan SIP as long as to train and encourage the career they commenced their employment at development of all disabled persons in the start of the relevant performance its employment.
Staff who were working for the Group at the start of 2005 have received 6,000 worth of free shares under the SIP, which had a value of 11,252 at 9 March 2007.
The Group also operates a Senior Executive Tusk expedition to South Africa A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 4 External sponsorship Over the last fifteen years Tusk has Admiral has also sponsored a number supported more than 30 projects in of high profile local events in 2006.
Last year alone Tusk supported 21 different projects Wales National Waterfront in 11 African countries.
Tusks support Museum comes in many different guises such Swansea Bay Festival 2006 as provision of 4x4 vehicles, wildlife The Swansea Jazz Festival 2006 clinics, rhino and cheetah sanctuaries, The 2006 Swansea 10K and chimpanzee enclosures.
The Admiral Cardiff Big Weekend 2006 Environment Admiral Calenning Family Fireshow The Groups impact on the The Welsh Business Awards environment stems from its use of The 2006 South Wales Echo resources to run its offices in Cardiff Champion Child of Courage Award and Swansea and its communications with customers.
The Group does not Charitable contributions own the properties that it occupies In addition to sponsoring these local and is, therefore, reliant upon the initiatives, we have continued to cooperation of the managing agents support several larger charities: of the properties to make changes that could reduce the consumption of WellBeing of Women through the energy and water.
This charity is the only national charity that funds The Group Company Secretary has obstetric and gynaelogical research taken responsibility for the Groups by supporting research projects.
approach to its impact upon the Wellbeing of Womens mission is to environment and has set up a project bring an end to fear and suffering team to take forward a more robust caused by reproductive health approach to environmental reporting.
2006 is the first year the Group has focussed its attention on measuring Born Free Foundation and Tusk its environmental footprint and the through elephant.
Born Free table below provides the initial data Foundation is an international gathered for that year.
wildlife charity that works to Admiral Sponsored Champion Child reduce animal suffering and to The Project Team will review the of Courage Award encourage people to treat animals Groups processes with a view to with respect.
consuming less natural resource per employee: recycle more of the waste It is involved in campaigns against produced: and ensure that waste that cruelty in zoos, and dedicated to cannot be recycled is disposed of in aiding conservation of elephants, compliance with relevant legislation.
big cats, wolfs, dolphins, primates The Group is committed to improving and bears.
its performance in the following areas: Minimising consumption of natural resources, including energy, water and other raw materials Corporate responsibility 41 - 45 4 4 C O R P O R At e R e S P O N S I B I L I t y Reducing the waste produced, Energy encouraging recycling and We have based our energy usage on minimising the use of landfill sites, our head offices in Cardiff, built in whilst ensuring compliance with all the 1960s and housing just over 1,200 relevant legislation people.
Measures to reduce resource consumption have to be discussed and Achieving the most efficient agreed with the buildings managing means of travel to business agent and other tenants.
Up until the meetings in the UK and abroad end of 2006 our Swansea staff were Admiral Sponsored Swansea Pantomime with the objective of reducing located in an ageing building with the environmental impact of the inefficient electricity and water supply.
resulting journeys As noted above, the Group has Encouraging staff to support taken a long-term lease on a newly initiatives that positively impact constructed building on a brownfield the local, national and global site in Swansea Bay.
Future reporting environments on energy usage will combine both buildings.
Raising and maintaining staff awareness of this policy and Within the Group we have worked ensuring that employees are hard with our staff and our managing actively engaged in supporting the agents to reduce the use of energy and resulting practices have introduced a number of measures to help lower energy usage such as: Measuring, monitoring and reporting on the key aspects of the All the lights in the building go off Groups environmental performance after working hours and regularly reviewing progress to Screen savers on all PCs reduce the amount of resources Communicating the advantages of consumed per employee switching PCs off each evening We have not been able to accurately assess the CO emissions generated by 2 the Groups direct activities.
Improved measurement of resource usage will enable the Project Team to provide estimated CO emissions for 2007.
2 Impact Area Measure Performance 2 Energy Electricity 280 KWh m 3 Water Water consumption 11.2 m per person Waste management Total waste generated 77,180 Kg Wastage recycled by weight 57,993Kg Waste to landfill 19,187Kg Resource management Paper use 5,732 sheets per person Cartridges 0.4 cartridges per person Travel Mileage by rail 213,900 Mileage by air 621,240 As the Group moved its Swansea workforce to new offices in quarter two of 2006, the figures are shown based on the resources used for Cardiff office only and where usage per employee is stated, is based on an average of 1,200 employees working in the Cardiff office.
Both offices will be included in the 2007 calculation.
A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 4 5 Water consumption We also provide all staff with the As noted above, the Group is reliant benefit of an interest free loan for on the co-operation of the managing public transport passes.
agent with respect to any changes to its use of water.
In future years, water The Group only operates two consumption per employee will be company cars for its engineers and has measured and compared to similar no plans to increase this.
office environments to ensure that consumption within our offices is A central booking facility is provided within reasonable limits.
for staff to request train and airline tickets, avoiding the need for them Waste management to fund the costs up front and to We have run a recycling programme for encourage staff to use the service.
a number of years, to which our staff have shown considerable commitment.
Monitoring systems are being put in Throughout the Company we advertise place to more accurately measure our recycling facilities and every floor business travel by employees.
has an area for recycling.
As a result, we currently only send 25% of our Environmental risks waste to landfill.
The Group has reviewed the risks facing its business operations as a We are currently in the process of result of climate change.
The volume trialling the use of recycled paper of motor insurance claims for any within photocopiers and printers as given portfolio of business is to a this is the source of the vast majority large degree dependent upon weather of the Groups internal printing.
The risk associated The Project Team will also review the with climate change is the potential current printing usage to seek ways to change to claims frequency through reduce the amount of internal printing.
the impact of more extreme weather patterns.
It is virtually impossible Policyholder documentation is not to model the potential impact of currently printed on recycled paper.
climate change on claims frequency The Project Team will revisit the as the actual climate change induced sourcing of recycled paper and will outcome for the UK is unknown.
test its use for communications with However, the Group does assess Henrys Pot supports Penarth customers.
the potential costs associated with Badminton Club a number of disaster scenarios such Travel as a major storm in the South East, We have based our offices centrally in major flood on the East Coast, and Cardiff and Swansea to enable staff to a complete flooding of the Thames take advantage of public transport.
The Group maintains sufficient reinsurance cover to provide protection in the event of catastrophes of this nature.
