BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate Responsibility 37 For BG Group, Corporate Responsibility CR is how the Group works.
It is central to how the Group delivers its strategy and Corporate Responsibility is embedded in its business decisionmaking processes.
The way we work: Corporate This section summarises BG Groups performance in the four aspects of CR: Responsibility is central to how Conduct, Our people, Society and Environment.
More detail can be found in the BG Group 2006 Corporate Responsibility BG Group delivers its strategy.
Report, which is published separately.
BG Group has had a statement of principles in place since 1998 and reviews it annually.
BG Groups Business Principles consist of 15 statements of core beliefs and behaviours.
The Business Principles, which are mandatory for all employees, are supported by two documents that together comprise the expression of BG Groups principles: Corporate Commitments provides more detail on the Business Principles, and Principles into Practice 2006 in Review provides practical guidance on applying the Business Principles in business life.
All these documents can be found at The revised Business Principles were In October 2006, Goldman Sachs www.
com business principles launched in April 2006. ranked BG Group as the industry leader in environmental, social and CONDUCT Lost Time Injury Frequency per governance performance in the Guiding behaviour million man hours worked improved oil and gas sector.
BG Group expects its people to maintain to 0.36 our lowest ever figure.
the highest standards, both in how they Our full Corporate Responsibility Greenhouse gas emissions from work together and how they deal with report for 2006 can be found online operations under BG Groups control partners, contractors, customers and the at www.
com cr fell by 6% in absolute terms.
The first Group-wide employee In 2006, Goldman Sachs annual ranking survey was carried out in 2006. of oil and gas companies against their environmental, social and governance performance placed BG Group as the best performer in the sector.
Employee awareness Revised Business Principles were launched in April 2006 with a communications campaign.
A number of supporting documents were published to provide additional employee guidance, including Guidance on Human Rights and the Community Relations Toolbox.
BG Group has incorporated ethics workshops into its key business training programmes.
These programmes ran throughout the year.
Issues consistently Corporate raised by employees include how the Business Principles shape strategy and Responsibility impact major investment decisions.
In 2007, BG Group plans to revise Business Principles training, including awareness workshops and online training.
Sustainable development Oil and gas reserves are often located in regions facing severe developmental challenges.
The opportunity that extractive companies have to add sustainable and lasting value to local and national economies is gaining greater attention.
Business review 38 Corporate Responsibility continued BG Groups contribution to host economies employees were dismissed.
None of the Employees by location reported fraud cases were material the is through its core business.
As an investor Average in 2006 in these economies, the Group pays taxes, amounts involved ranged from 116 to 3 300.
None of the whistleblowing or places contracts with local suppliers and fraud cases constituted significant creates jobs, but the impact of BG Groups deficiencies or material weaknesses in the presence is more complex and far reaching design or operation of internal control over than this.
In 2006, as part of a new approach financial reporting and did not involve to sustainable development, the Group management or employees who had a moved to a more integrated and in-depth significant role in the Groups internal approach to assessing its true value to local control over financial reporting.
BG Group has contracted two independent institutes to carry out In February 2007, the Brindisi LNG research on its behalf, to gain a better regasification terminal site was seized in understanding of the economic impacts of connection with a criminal investigation UK 1 635 operations.
Where appropriate the lessons by Italian authorities into allegations Non UK 3 030 learnt will be integrated into how the of improper conduct related to the authorisation process.
Further details of business is managed to minimise any this matter are contained in the Directors negative impacts and maximise BG Groups Employees by Region report Significant events subsequent to contribution to sustainable development.
BG Group continues to support the Investor dialogue Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative In 2006, a presentation and discussion EITI as it becomes the international session with the Socially Responsible standard for revenue management within Investor community was held, led by the the extractive industry, and will continue to Regional Managing Director for BG Groups comply with national regulations and Mediterranean Basin and Africa region.
policies related to revenue disclosure.
Particular focus was brought to bear on Governance and compliance transparency and on BG Groups entry into new countries.
The Board of BG Group established a Corporate Responsibility Committee in Shareholders and analysts can access 2005.
Its responsibilities are set out in reports and presentations from the Group South America 25% the report on corporate governance on website.
In addition, BG Group maintains an Asia Pacic 24% pages 45 to 69. active programme of engagement with its Mediterranean Basin and Africa 18% major shareholders on Corporate During 2006 the Groups Whistleblowing North America and the Caribbean 15% Responsibility issues, including face-to-face policy was the subject of a comprehensive Europe and Central Asia 18% meetings with analysts and written review which included a comparison with responses to surveys.
As a result, changes to the ownership, oversight and structure of The Group continues to be a member Lost time injury frequency the policy and supporting processes were of the FTSE4Good index and Dow Jones per million hours worked implemented during 2006 and awareness Sustainability Indexes.
0.8 of the policy has been raised.
Responsibility OUR PEOPLE for investigating whistleblowing reports, 0.7 BG Group recognises its responsibility to allegations of fraud and breaches of develop its people and encourages all 0.6 Business Principles was brought together employees to reach their potential.
During 0.5 under the control of the General Counsel.
2006 BG Group employed an average of 0.4 During 2007 the policy will be re-launched 4 665 people, of whom 3 030 were 0.3 with a particular emphasis on employed outside the UK.
85 non-UK USA implementation within the different local 0.2 nationals are employed in roles outside their cultures in which BG Group operates.
home country, in line with the Groups aims 0.1 of developing staff and sharing knowledge 0.0 During the year, BG Group issued a Groupbetween assets.
The policy of localising 04 05 06 wide Anti-Corruption Standard, together management roles continues.
with an awareness-raising campaign in its BG Group recruited 701 people in 2006, key businesses.
Advanced anti-fraud training including 58 on the international graduate was also provided to assist fraud officers at a scheme from 10 different countries.
two-day fraud workshop held in the UK.
This training was provided by KPMG and BG Groups first Group-wide employee Control Risks Group.
survey was carried out in 2006.
The survey was designed to gauge views on a range of In addition to external review of the issues including leadership, HSSE, levels of BG Group Corporate Responsibility Report, reward, personal development and working Good Corporation have provided assurance culture.
In order to ensure anonymity, in respect of two of our assets.
and to compare ourselves with other The total number of whistleblowing and organisations, we engaged an independent fraud cases during 2006 was 31 24 company to run the survey on our behalf.
We found summary of the findings can be found in evidence of fraud in six cases and four the Corporate Responsibility Report.
0.55 0.51 0.36 BUSINESS REVIEW 39 In 2006, BG Group launched a business simulation development programme Corporate Responsibility designed to introduce managers to the case study complexity of decisions required to grow the business.
Governance and business ethics Keeping the gas are integral to the simulation.
In 2006, over 200 employees from 16 countries attended.
on in India Safety BG Group has a strong record of continuous safety improvement.
In 2006, the lost time injury frequency per million hours worked for employees and contractors fell to 0.36 the Groups lowest ever figure but BG Over a space of seven days in August, The people, trade & industry and the Groups ultimate goal remains zero injuries.
Surat city in Gujarat state experienced members of the Chamber join me in severe flooding when the Tapti river congratulating you on the However, there was one fatality in 2006, burst its banks and engulfed 90% of outstanding performance of your when a firefighter in Kazakhstan was fatally the city.
Parts of the city were staff and officers during the injured by a reversing fire engine.
submerged in 22 feet of water.
unprecedented and devastating A review of the causes and implications floods that shook the backbone of Gujarat Gas Company Ltd GGCL, in of this fatality was completed and lessons the industrial hub of Gujarat.
which BG Group owns a 65.12% learned communicated for action across all The Southern Gujarat Chamber controlling stake, is the major natural of our businesses.
of Commerce & Industry gas distributor in Gujarat.
With BG Groups STEP UP safety initiative has flooding levels reaching 15 feet at had a clear impact across the Group since GGCLs offices, GGCL engineers its launch.
Over 95% of employees and longcontinued to attend to the numerous term contractors have now been trained in gas escapes caused by the force of the water during the flooding.
safety intervention, raising their safety awareness and giving them the skills and GGCL was the only public utility service tools to intervene every time they observe to continue operations during the unsafe behaviour.
flood, providing a vital service that enabled city residents to boil water Health for cooking and hygiene needs.
BG Group work situations include both operational and office environments.
Occupational health thus covers a wide range of issues, from display screen equipment to manual handling and SOCIETY equivalent business principles, including noise pollution.
Community relations the commitment to human rights.
During BG Group recognises that ensuring 2007, BG Group will launch a project with BG Group monitors and responds to global a positive relationship with local contractors to make sure that its supply health issues that may effect its workforce.
communities is key for both its chain does not include forced labour, child In 2006, these included the threats of reputation and its commercial success.
exploitation or ill treatment of workers.
pandemic flu, stress and HIV AIDS.
During the year BG Group developed the BG Groups Policy on Human Rights was In 2006, 4% of the UK-based workforce Community Relations Toolbox, a practical revised and re-issued in 2006 and used BG Groups employee assistance manual for use by all BG Group staff when guidance was made available to all BG programme, which provides independent, dealing with issues that effect the local Group businesses.
Human rights training confidential support and advice, community.
Training and knowledge was provided to corporate affairs sharing between community relations anonymously if required.
managers from across the Group and specialists was enhanced.
is available to all managers operating Security in high-risk environments.
Human rights BG Groups most important security BG Groups support for human rights is objective remains the personal security of Social investment based on recognition of the principles in its employees and contractors.
The Group BG Group works with local communities the Universal Declaration of Human also seeks to protect its physical assets, data to ensure that they benefit from our Rights and core International Labour and reputation.
New and challenging presence on an enduring basis.
Our social Organisation conventions on equality, locations mean a constant review of investment programmes arise from our freedom of association and abolition of security procedures.
community engagement process, and forced and child labour.
follow the Group theme of providing In 2006, BG Group identified the need for The Groups ability to safeguard human opportunities and skills for development.
practical security training for staff and their rights is related to the degree of control BG Group social investment projects focus families in some locations.
Training began it is able to exert.
Within its operations, on long-term sustainability combined with in 2006 and will be fully rolled out in 2007.
BG Group protects the human rights of meeting the Groups business objectives.
All employees travelling internationally employees through policies which cover attend regular security briefings.
In In 2006, BG Group spent a total of equal opportunity and non-discrimination, 4.2 million on voluntary social countries considered to be high risk, security and labour standards.
All major travel security plans are put in place.
contractors agree to apply BG Group or Business Review 40 Corporate Responsibility continued Employee involvement is designed to reduce GHG emissions from Voluntary contributions to social BG Group supports the involvement of existing operations over time to a and educational projects m employees in charity and community practicable minimum, and to achieve this in new project design.
The Group donates staff 4.5 time to organised volunteering schemes, detailed reviews in all operated assets to 4.0 establish the potential for GHG reduction.
and operates a Group-wide matched 3.5 Feasible reduction options will be developed funding scheme for employees who raise 3.0 and implemented during 2007 and beyond.
2.5 A methodology has also been developed to The BG Energy Challenge series of team 2.0 account for net emission reductions that building events has now grown to include 1.5 result from the displacement of other fuels seven countries.
These fundraising events, 1.0 by gas.
This will be rolled out further across involving intellectual and physical 0.5 the business in 2007. challenges, have now raised over 2.5 million 0.0 In 2006, operations under BG Groups for charities worldwide since 1996.
04 05 06 control emitted six million tonnes of carbon ENVIRONMENT dioxide equivalent comprising carbon BG Groups business growth brings with dioxide and methane.
This is a decrease Greenhouse gas emissions from it opportunities for environmental of 6% in absolute emissions compared to BG Group-operated facilities improvement as well as challenges in 2005.
The decrease was associated with million tonnes carbon managing environmental impact.
A major dioxide equivalent reduced drilling activity in Egypt and a benefit from BG Groups core business is reduction in flaring in Kazakhstan.
Total the substitution of gas for coal or oil where operated emissions per unit of throughput 7 the result can be a net benefit in terms of of oil and gas decreased by 5% as the fall in 6 reduced greenhouse gas GHG emissions emissions was greater than the change in and improved air quality.
On the other hand, as the business grows 4 Equity share emissions from BG Group so potentially does the environmental operated and non-operated activities rose 3 footprint.
BG Groups aim is to reduce the by 8% to 11.7 million tonnes of carbon 2 footprint growth to a practicable minimum.
The main reasons for BG Groups Business Principles define the the increase was the growth of our LNG 1 values by which the Group conducts its businesses in Trinidad and Tobago and in 0 business, not only in an environmentally Egypt.
Total equity share emissions per unit 04 05 06 responsible manner but also recognising of throughput decreased by 1%.
a Based on revised data not available at that BG Group has a positive role to play the time of production of the BG Group in environmental protection.
2005 Annual Report and Accounts, The corporate HSSE management system which quoted 6.4 million tonnes and standards have been updated to per annum.
support the Business Principles during 2006.
Standards on air and water quality, GHG management, biodiversity and resource management have been introduced.
During the year, BG Group developed a tool that defines the requirements for environmental, community and community health management at each stage in the opportunity life cycle.
This tool helps with the early identification and analysis of options to reduce risks and enhance benefits, and sits within the standard business management framework.
BG Group environmental requirements are implemented at operational level via environmental management systems of international standard.
Of BG Group major operated assets, 83% have been certified to the international environmental management standard ISO 14001.
Of the certified assets, 100% have achieved the upgrade to the new ISO 14001 2004 standard.
In recognition of the evolving challenge of climate change, during 2006 BG Group launched an Enhanced Greenhouse Gas Management Programme.
