Business Review Corporate Responsibility Report Our Corporate Responsibility CR report provides an overview of how we meet the challenge of being a responsible corporation under the headings Marketplace, Workplace, Community and Environment.
The following report contains a summary of Each lending application is considered in its 780,000 the information contained in our CR Report.
own right, taking account of the following: Charitable donations The full report is published on our website at we will not knowingly invest in any www.
business involved in the manufacture or transfer of armaments to oppressive Our Marketplace regimes: Ethical and responsible lending Alliance & Leicester is an ethical and responsible we will not knowingly invest in any business lender and a member of the FTSE4Good index.
involved in the manufacture of torture In all our business activities we will not risk the equipment or other equipment that is Groups reputation by knowingly associating with used in the violation of human rights: people, organisations, products or transactions we will not knowingly invest with any which could potentially damage that reputation.
government or company which fails to We aim to ensure that any money lent is used uphold basic human rights within its for a reputable purpose and can be repaid by the sphere of influence: customer.
Our lending policies comply with all we do not participate in financing the appropriate regulatory standards and industry Sovereign debt to Third World countries: codes of practice, and we also work closely with the police and other agencies to ensure we do we will not invest in any company not facilitate fraudulent or illegal activities.
involved in the unauthorised development of genetically Underpinning all of the Groups policies and modified organisms: procedures are our key business principles, 593,000 which can be seen at www.
alliance-leicesterwe will not support currency speculation: Support for local community events csr.
These principles set out we will not provide funding to the our position on each issue and each external tobacco industry: stakeholder, including customers, staff, business relationships, security, the local community and we will not lend to any individual the environment.
entitled to claim diplomatic immunity: Looking at each of our core product areas, we will not lend to any individual who we can assure stakeholders as follows: we know to have an unspent criminal conviction.
Our personal and corporate customer deposit balances are used primarily to fund UK Treating customers fairly TCF residential mortgage lending.
We are committed to the principle of treating customers fairly over the complete lifecycle of our We do not manufacture life assurance or relationship with them.
TCF is not a new initiative long term investment products.
These for the Group: it is viewed as part of business as products are provided by Legal & General, usual and inherent in everything we do.
It is an which has its own socially responsible integral part of the Groups vision to be the most investment guidelines.
customer focused financial services provider in Our Treasury operation does not invest the UK.
240,000 directly in emerging markets, venture capital TCF can only be achieved by embedding the Employee time spent or hedge funds and 97% of its exposures are principle in the culture of the organisation.
TCF is on community activities rated single A or above.
being delivered through our four brand values: Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Business Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued we attract new customers by offering better in a number of re-structuring projects across Freedom of association and value products and services: the Group.
When undertaking such difficult and collective bargaining sensitive initiatives, we engage voluntarily with The Group recognises a number of trade unions we are simple and straightforward to our unions at the earliest opportunity, ensuring for collective bargaining purposes.
deal with: that they understand the reasons for the changes International human rights, indigenous we offer a friendly and approachable service: and the process that we will follow.
We also brief rights and forced child labour and all staff affected by any programme face to face, The Groups operations are all based in the British and supplement this with regular intranet we recognise existing customers by offering Isles and our products are aimed at UK-based communications and team briefings.
even better value throughout their lifetime customers or ex-patriates.
In this context, human with us.
Health & safety rights and indigenous rights issues are not As a responsible employer we are committed to material for the Group, nor does our behaviour In addition, we are promoting a culture which ensuring that none of our employees, customers, significantly impact such issues.
We are not values and respects the individual needs of our visitors or contractors are exposed to an involved in forced or child labour.
customers, and offers them a friendly and unacceptable risk to their health or safety.
Diversity and equal opportunities believe a safe and healthy working environment We are committed to equality of opportunity is a positive business investment and we seek to Our Workplace for all our employees.
We will not condone achieve health & safety excellence and statutory Responsibility for all employee related matters, discrimination on the grounds of sex, race or compliance.
Our well established structure of including health and safety, rests with our national origin, colour, religious belief, disability health & safety committees, which include both Director of Group Human Resources, who mental or physical, marital status, age or trade union and management representation, reports to the Group Chief Executive.
continues to provide a good forum for the Alliance & Leicesters employees are central to discussion and resolution of any health & Our Community our present and future success as a business and safety issues.
Our Director of Corporate Communications, who we have a responsibility to provide a positive Bullying and harassment disciplinary reports directly to the Group Chief Executive, is working environment for them.
policy grievance procedure responsible for community affairs.
How our employees view us The Group has a robust set of policies and During 2006, our community programme once Our annual employee opinion survey was carried procedures relating to any forms of bullying, again received external recognition, including out in November 2006 across all parts of the harassment, discipline and grievances.
These winning the Mortgage Finance Gazettes Group.
The number of employees completing the have been documented in previous reports Community Services National Lender award survey has remained consistently high, with 80% and can be seen on our website at for the second year in succession.
In Liverpool of the workforce responding in 2006.
we achieved further recognition, winning the of the 2006 survey were above the average for UK Public interest disclosures Spirit of Merseyside Award for Corporate Social companies.
The surveys findings included: Individual employees may be the first to realise Responsibility at the inaugural Community 90% of employees have a clear understanding that there may be something seriously wrong Foundation for Merseyside celebration evening.
of what is expected of them in their role: within a business.
We are committed to ensuring Our community investment and charitable that any suspicion of malpractice is reported, and 87% of employees say there is at least donations programmes have continued to focus therefore encourage all employees to raise any one person at work in whom they can trust on the following five areas: genuine concerns about potential malpractice at and confide: the earliest practicable stage.
The Group treats all Educating the next generation Alliance 83% of employees think that the people they such concerns very seriously.
All staff can initially & Leicesters education programme.
work with are committed to delivering work report any concerns in confidence to the Director Support for education forms the core of Alliance of a high standard.
of Group Human Resources, the Group Secretary, & Leicesters community activities.
Our education the Head of Money Laundering or the Chairman programme supports a variety of activities for Implementation of change of the Group Audit Committee, who is a nonteachers and pupils of all ages.
There is a significant amount of change occurring executive director.
Roles and organisation Literacy and numeracy skills are central to any structures are evolving as a result of new childs education.
Through the Right to Read technology, re-engineered processes and and Number Partners programmes, Alliance & changing customer behaviour.
This is resulting 26 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Leicester and our staff are helping to improve Supporting our staff efforts in raising 270,000 these skills in local schools.
money for charity During 2006 the Group donated around 90,000 Of gifts in kind provided to the We have developed the local community and charitable causes to charities through our Matched Donation www.
info website to help Scheme, which matches funds raised by staff and teachers deliver financial literacy classes.
Over 400 events have benefited The website has received PFEG Primary Financial from a donation.
Education Group and NGFL National Grid For Learning approval.
In 2006 we worked with Supporting organisations who help those Leicester Education Business Company LEBC who are experiencing financial difficulties and the separate organisation Education The Group has continued to support Payplan, the Business Company EBC Ltd - who designed the Consumer Credit Counselling Service, the Money original website - to develop a series of financial Advice Trust and the Towards a National Support literacy lessons, based around the website, which Service for Money Advisors initiative, which is led by cover the financial literacy elements of the the Citizens Advice Bureau and Money Advice Trust.
These lessons are now being During 2006 we agreed to increase our support delivered in a pilot group of five local secondary for the Money Advice Trust by more than 50% schools.
A key part of the feedback from the over the next three years.
We have also increased Awarded teachers was the request for help from Alliance the donations made to Credit Unions, recognising Community Services - National Lender' & Leicester staff in delivering the lessons.
We the work they do to provide financial services to award by Mortgage Finance Gazette therefore agreed to provide staff volunteers to sections of society who would not be suited by Spirit of Merseyside Award for support the teachers in each of the schools.
Corporate Social Responsibility at the Community Foundation For Merseyside Early feedback from the schools has been positive Supporting charities and organisations Celebration evening and in early 2007 we will review the success of within local communities in which our the programme before looking at opportunities staff live and work to roll-out the programme more extensively.
We Our staff volunteering and charitable donations have also supported the South Leicestershire are primarily focused on the communities in Citizens Advice Bureau, which is near to our which our staff live and work.
head office, with a donation which has enabled the Bureau, together with LEBC, to introduce In the North West, our community investment 04 05 06 the mymoneymatters financial literacy project programme is principally focused around our role to pupils at Lutterworth Grammar School.
as the official banking and finance partner of Liverpools European Capital of Culture 2008 In 2004 we provided the private sector funding celebrations.
We are investing over 2m between necessary for Soar Valley College in Leicester to 2004 and 2008 to help ensure that Liverpool gain specialist school status in Maths and IT.
maximises the benefits from this prestigious title.
Following the success of our relationship with the College, we were pleased to provide the In Leicestershire, we continued our support for funding for Savio High School in Bootle to gain Leicester City Football Club, Leicester Tigers specialist school status in Business and TAG Rugby programme and Leicestershire Enterprise in February 2006.
County Cricket Clubs Indoor Cricket School.
The Group also continued to support the Leicester Planning Our graduate trainees supported both our partner Diwali celebrations.
schools by delivering enterprise days which give To achieve carbon neutrality for the energy used in all our buildings the pupils an insight into real day to day business Supporting organisations who aim to activities.
We are also discussing with the improve the links between business and Principal of Soar Valley how some of the feedback local communities and development techniques we use to help We support a variety of organisations which aim manage and develop our staff can be used in to support the local economies of the areas where 04 05 06 the management of his school.
the majority of our staff live and work.
A number of Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 Business Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued our Senior Managers are involved with local Chamber Environmental Management System discussion groups are being used to develop the of Commerce organisations and we are a national Our environmental policy is implemented plan, which will be shared with other local member of Business in the Community BITC.
through our Environmental Management employers and local councils.
Our EMS is reviewed and updated We continue to be active members of the Leeds, Utilities usage and carbon neutrality on an annual basis and can be read online at Leicestershire, Liverpool and Manchester Cares Our key impact on the environment continues to www.
organisations, which support links between be through our electricity, gas and water usage.
It provides full details about our impact on businesses and the community.
We are the environment and how we manage and The Groups energy usage is reported monthly represented on the Leadership Team for monitor it.
to the Group Board, and energy costs in 2006 Leicestershire Cares and Liverpool Cares.
In represented less than 1% of the Groups overall each of these regions, we have undertaken Indices and accreditations operating costs.
numerous team challenges during the year.
We continue to enter Business in the Communitys annual Environment Index EI.
We continued to reduce our electricity and water Donations and community investment In the 2005 Index, we saw a further improvement usage in 2006.
Gas usage in the year increased In 2006, we continued to support local charities in our overall score and ranking, reflecting and was broadly in line with 2004, reflecting and community activities.
Donations for ongoing improvements in the reporting and higher usage at our Bootle administration office.
charitable purposes in the year amounted to monitoring of our environmental impacts.
In addition to these donations, our During 2006 we extended our renewable A copy of our EI report can be read at corporate community investment programme has electricity contracts, ensuring that all the Groups www.
given support to a number of local organisations.
locations continue to be supplied with electricity In November 2006 we completed our entry in In 2006 we contributed 593,000 to local from renewable sources.
The energy produced the 2006 EI, with the results due to be published community events and programmes, including results in no greenhouse gas pollution to the in May 2007.
250,000 for our commercial sponsorship of atmosphere and is carbon neutral.
the European Capital of Culture Celebrations Property design and management During 2007 we are planning to achieve carbon in Liverpool.
The nature of the Groups business means that neutrality for the energy used in all our buildings, many of our environmental issues are focused on As well as providing financial support to extending carbon neutrality to gas as well as our buildings.
We therefore employ specialist charities and local community organisations, electricity.
We will also take actions to facilities management companies to ensure that we also provide support through our staff understand better the Groups overall carbon our buildings are well maintained.
Their role volunteering efforts and gifts in kind.
In total footprint, which will be used to improve our includes managing and maintaining both the it is estimated that the cost of office space understanding and planning of initiatives interior and exterior of the buildings.
and other non-financial gifts amounted to targeted at reducing or mitigating our 270,000.
We estimate that at least 240,000 Using more recycled paper environmental impacts.
of employee time was invested in supporting In our Retail Banking operation, we have charitable causes and local community activities switched the production of our marketing during 2006. inserts to recycled paper and this paper now also accounts for three-quarters of the paper used in We continue to support our staff who wish to the welcome packs given to new customers.
In donate to charities through payroll giving, addition, posters and leaflets produced as part and in 2006 over 44,000 was donated to of our monthly branch campaigns use recycled various charities.
All our inserts and other publications During 2006 our staff helped raise over 75,000 produced on recycled paper now carry the for Marie Curie Cancer Care and Pilgrims Hospice, appropriate wording about their recycled our two Charities of the Year.
content, as well as the relevant recycling logo.
Travel plan Our Environment During 2006 the Group made further progress in Alliance & Leicester recognises that it has a developing a travel plan for our head office, responsibility to act in a way that respects the building on the staff survey undertaken in 2005. environment.
The Groups environmental policy is applied consistently across the Group and is the In the summer a series of discussion groups responsibility of the Group Secretary, who is also were held with staff to understand their travel responsible for the Groups Procurement department.
The results of these 28 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance 30 Board of Directors 32 Directors Report 34 Statement of Corporate Governance 38 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 39 Directors Remuneration Report 46 Auditors Report Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29
