Operating and Financial Review People retaining, motivating and building skills With regard to Amlin s employees our key objectives remain: The retention and growth of key skills which are A working environment where employees are well critical to the business.
motivated and have a strong belief in the Company, Well constructed and fair reward systems which help its strategy and core values.
drive superior performance and align employee and The development of loyalty between the Company shareholder interests.
The development and use of first class employment Continual improvement in the effective management practices throughout the Group.
of people and the skills and competency of staff at all levels and across all disciplines.
We recognise that the success of Amlin is Employee turnover and experience dependent on our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain talented staff.
We believe Senior Other Underwriting Claims Claims Operational Admin & Total that our intellectual property and competitive Class underwriters underwriters support staff support Operational support finance Average advantage resides in our employees and that No.
at 31 there is a strong correlation between effective December 2006 48 54 160 138 39 39 17 125 620 people practices and shareholder value.
of employees 12.71 6.75 6.89 8.24 6.45 6.26 5.71 6.86 7.48 In managing our people, our objective is to create a strong alignment between the Groups In fact, 2006 turnover of senior underwriters and At the end of 2006, around 4% of employees Vision and goals, shareholder value and all employees was 4.35% and 12.62% respectively regularly worked from home in addition to the employee interests.
We aim to sustain, and and the turnover of senior underwriters has been 50% of employees who can work remotely.
where necessary raise, the performance of the less than 5% for each of the past six years.
The number of staff with flexible working business by developing staff to their full arrangements across the Group now stands at potential, by motivating staff appropriately and Further work has been undertaken to update and 9%, compared to 4% at the end of 2005. by planning ahead so that we are capable of refine the Group succession plan which enables us Sabbatical leave also proved popular throughout properly addressing succession issues.
to take a more planned and strategic approach to 2006 with 3% of employees taking advantage of the resourcing and development of key staff.
Employee profile The plan identifies key roles and individuals, reviews Amlin employed a total of 620 people at 31 possible areas of risk and identifies contingencies Age, work status and disability December 2006 and the number of new staff and successors both within and outside of the joining the Group during 2006 was 93.
Full time Part time Disability Following the establishment of Amlin Bermuda at A key initiative in 2007 will be the design and 180 the end of 2005 when a team of four underwriting implementation of leadership development and 160 140 staff were transferred from London to Bermuda, talent management programmes to meet the 120 the operation at ABL has expanded to 14 needs of the Group succession plan.
100 employees, 8 of whom are local Bermudians.
80 60 Diversity and flexibility 40 Amlin is proud to be an equal opportunity employer Total employees 20 and we aim to ensure that the recruitment, promotion 0 16-29 30-39 40-49 50 At 31 At 31 and development of staff is based on their suitability Age Groups December December and competency for the role.
In April 2006, in Source: Amlin 2006 2005 London market business 239 236 preparation for the new age discrimination UK commercial business 221 233 legislation and also to allow employees to Performance management Amlin Bermuda 14 4 continue employment with Amlin beyond the age In addition to the day-to-day management of Group functions 146 137 of 60, Amlin raised the normal retirement age for employees, Amlin undertakes formal reviews of Total 620 610 employees from 60 to 65.
Approximately 3% of individual performance through two means: a employees are currently over the age of 60. detailed business class review for each senior Continuity underwriter which includes an assessment of an Underwriting expertise and a consistent approach We believe that work life balance is important underwriters ability to manage a portfolio of risk to underwriting risk management and control is to our staff and helps improve performance and to adapt to changing business circumstances: critical to the success of Amlin, making the retention through increased job satisfaction and reduced and performance and development reviews for of skilled and experienced underwriters a business absenteeism.
Our flexible working policies apply employees.
Both are intended to ensure that we priority.
Our 48 senior underwriters have on average to all employees across all parts of the business have the right skills in place and that we focus over 21 years experience in the insurance industry subject to local differences in Bermuda and include: training and development where it is needed.
and over 12 years service with the Amlin Group.
Part time working: Job share: Well structured incentive arrangements also play For the fifth year in succession we achieved our Two weeks paid paternity leave: an important part in performance management.
goal that voluntary turnover, excluding retirements, Parental leave: While reward systems need to pay our staff fairly of our senior underwriters is below 10% per annum Sabbatical leave: and and competitively against the market they are and our overall employee turnover below 15%.
also designed to provide high reward for high performance.
For example, the Companys 24 24 Amlin plc Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Number of Employees 2006 initiatives Initiative referred to in 2005 annual report Progress achieved in 2006 Changes to the Groups incentive Completed and pension arrangements Review and update of the 90% complete with one area requiring further work Groups succession plan When the answer to the question What Roll out of the Groups Core Values Commenced with strong positive involvement of staff did you gain from the training programme?
Conducting a second MORI staff survey Completed is Too much to list, we can assume that Design of a leadership development programme Commenced but much remains to be done in 2007 something positive is happening.
This Further development of core curricula Completed for claims functions.
Underwriting and other functions matrices for technical functions to be completed in 2007 was the response given by a participant Development of a long term talent strategy Carried over to 2007 in a review of the 2006 Amlin People Managers Programme.
And whilst the response reflects well on those who ran Capital Builder Long Term Incentive Plan is Amlin Academy the programme, it also reflects the close designed to retain and reward the long-term Training days provided in 2005 6 partnership we have built with Amlin commitment of key underwriters by allowing them over the last four years and their desire to build personal capital over a sustained period 2005 2006 to work with us to continually review and of success if, and only if, they exceed demanding refine the programme to meet the needs Professional targets to help the Company achieve superior qualifications of their managers.
It is a real pleasure returns on capital.
For senior management and Personal to be working with an organisation development others who are not underwriters, incentives are that so clearly believes in investing in performance related with a greater proportion being Management their people.
development driven by return on equity the more senior the Information employee, as the Company considers return on technology Steve Tarpey, Director of Bespoke equity to be the primary driver of shareholder value.
Services, The Roffey Park Institute.
Business technical Training and development 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Training days Amlin Academy, now in its sixth year, provides Source: Amlin training and development programmes for Group employees and selected open courses for others.
The Academys objective is to provide a core A key initiative during 2006 was the development curriculum of training, while encouraging of a claims competency framework which The Coverdale Organisation has been professional and personal development at incorporates a set of key behaviours specifically working in partnership with Amlin now every level throughout the organisation.
identified for claims staff, together with a since 2004 helping to furnish leaders in technical know-how and skills matrix which the organisation with the vision, creativity, The Academy supports regulatory and compliance categorises the skills required to perform the day commitment and skill to work in an requirements and also provides a broad range job at various levels.
This took longer to complete effective and collaborative way and bring of initiatives including technical training and than originally envisaged, and is a high quality about sustainable performance management and personal development, to piece of work which will be used as a template for improvement and change for the good.
help staff realise their full potential.
The number of developing other competency frameworks The key benefits of the programme for employee days devoted to training increased by across the business.
Amlin staff are that they come away with 21% to 1,252 days in 2006 as a result of increased a common language and way of working personal development, much of which was While fewer days in 2006 were devoted to together in order to get things done.
associated with the roll out of our core values management development than in 2005, Amlin They develop their observation, influencing programme as referred to overleaf.
continued to work closely with The Roffey Park and creative thinking skills, as well as Institute and The Coverdale Organisation in taking away a range of tools and techniques During 2006 a bespoke workshop was designed providing management development training.
that can be applied in the workplace.
to educate all underwriting staff on the requirements of Both training providers have a good insight into Contract Certainty with the primary objective of the culture of Amlin, which adds a huge benefit Innes Milne, Senior Consultant, maintaining Amlins position as a market leader in when delivering their programmes.
best practice and customer service.
Work commenced in 2006 on the design of a leadership development programme to provide directors and senior managers with tailored Reward and recognition personal development and to raise the level of Amlin has developed a total rewards approach leadership capability across the Group.
which provides a mix of financial and non-financial Completion of this in 2007 is a key priority.
rewards designed to maintain our competitiveness in the employment market, incentivise superior performance, encourage long term loyalty with an alignment to shareholder interests, as well as providing staff with flexibility and choice.
We aim to set basic pay at the median of our peers and to provide the potential for employees to earn top quartile overall rewards for top quartile performance.
We also encourage share ownership among employees and expect senior management to build meaningful shareholdings in the Company.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 25 Operating and Financial Review People building high performance Following a strategic review of our reward Employee well-being Employee engagement arrangements undertaken in 2005, to ensure In addition to rewarding employees financially, Amlin is committed to seeking the views of its that the way in which we incentivise employees Amlin promotes the benefits of improved health employees and therefore a second Employee is closely aligned to our Vision, in 2006 we and well-being at work, both in the interests Attitude Survey was carried out by MORI in July implemented a number of improvements to of providing a beneficial working environment 2006.
In addition to obtaining valuable feedback the Companys longer term incentives and for employees and for the positive impact on Amlins progress towards being the place to completed the design work on others which that this has on productivity, attendance work, we were able benchmark performance are being introduced in 2007. and staff turnover.
against the results or our 2004 MORI survey.
Proposals for a new 5 year Capital Builder Long Private Medical Insurance is offered to all 72% of staff participated in the 2006 survey Term Incentive Plan Capital Builder for senior employees and their dependants as a core which is well above the private sector average of underwriters, a new 3 year Performance Share benefit and the take up is over 84% of the 57%, and provides a strong statistical reliability Plan for non-underwriting senior managers and workforce.
In addition, as part of our flexible to the results.
The survey collected staff views a new annual Share Incentive Plan for all staff benefits package, employees can elect to on seven key areas: were formally approved by shareholders at the choose medical screening under the well Job satisfaction: AGM in May 2006. man well woman schemes.
During 2006, Understanding objectives and contribution: 51 employees chose this option.
Leadership: Each of these incentives is intended to motivate Management: superior performance and encourage long term Amlin uses an Occupational Health Advisory Reward and recognition: alignment between employees and the service to help proactively manage sickness Training and development: and Company.
Descriptions of each of them are absence as well as for pre employment screening, Culture, values and communication.
provided in the Directors Remuneration Report executive medical screening, proactive health on pages 58 to 70. management, policy advice and risk MORI also provide normative data that enables management.
Amlin to compare its results with other The Capital Builder incentive was awarded to 54 organisations, both within the financial services underwriting employees in 2006.
The Performance We provide employees with the opportunity to sector and more generally.
The normative data is Share Plan and the Share Incentive Plan will first receive free eye tests and also offer subsidised expressed as follows: be awarded to qualifying employees in 2007. gym membership as part of our overall benefits MORI Norm: The average score of all 170 package.
Currently 31% of employees have organisations surveyed by MORI in the past Like many companies, Amlin has reviewed its subsidised gym membership.
five years:and pension arrangements and specifically its position Top 10 Norm: The average score of the 10 in relation to its final salary schemes.
The plans We regard Health and Safety as a core aspect of highest scoring responses to any particular outlined in our 2005 Annual Report were how we do business and all employees receive question, from all organisations surveyed by implemented in 2006, removing much of the regular on-line health and safety training.
MORI in the past five years.
Companys risk associated with salary inflation which is inherent in defined benefit schemes and Amlins Employee Assistance Programme The survey recorded significant improvements in promoting equality in treatment between staff.
provided to all UK based employees through staff responses in all of the categories, both ICAS, offers counselling, life management and against the very positive results collected in 2004 legal advice.
This year, Amlin has worked in and against the MORI norm groups.
In many conjunction with ICAS to develop workshops on cases the Amlin result scored within the MORI stress management training, which has now top 10 norm and we are delighted that Amlin been delivered to senior operational scored the highest score for overall job management and will be rolled out to other satisfaction 81% of any organisation surveyed managers in 2007. by MORI in the last five years.
Following a presentation to a group of senior managers in October 2006, Martin Palimeris, Research Consultant for Ipsos MORI commented: These results are extremely encouraging to see and are testament to Amlins efforts in moving towards its goal as an employer of choice.
Impressive step changes have been achieved since the previous 2004 survey and many scores are at best practice level.
Amlin is performing very well across some key elements of employee engagement.
The challenge now for the company will be to maintain the high standards that have been achieved and to focus on attaining further improvements, based on the knowledge we have gained from this and the 2004 surveys.
Pictured left to right Elaine Mahoney, Human Resources manager Mark Farrow, Group Human Resources Director Julie Northfield, Training and Development manager 26 26 Amlin plc Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Job satisfaction Benchmarking Leadership Benchmarking MORI Norm MORI Top 10 Amlin 2004 Amlin 2006 MORI Norm MORI Top 10 Amlin 2004 Amlin 2006 Having interesting work Have clear vision Working environment Confidence in leadership team Feeling part of a team Trust senior management Work life balance Promote change which is right for business Amlin looks after employees Act as positive role models Having adequate resources Work as an effective team and facilities Interested in staff opinion Opportunity to use and develop skills and expertise Encourage different ideas Opportunity to develop career and approaches 20 40 60 80 100 30 40 50 60 70 80 % Positive % Positive Source: Amlin Employee Survey 2006 Source: Amlin Employee Survey 2006 MORI data not available for all questions Understanding Objectives Benchmarking Amlins values Professional excellence We are professional in all we do, continually developing our skills and expertise.
MORI Norm MORI Top 10 Amlin 2004 Amlin 2006 Integrity Understand the contribution We are fair and honest and we deliver on our commitments.
I am expected to make Leadership We take clear and considered views of the future.
We communicate our objectives and empower our team to achieve them.
Understand Amlins overall objectives Superior performance We seek to excel in both the levels of service and the results we achieve.
Teamwork Understand my department divisions objectives We work together to deliver excellent perfomance, taking responsibility, holding ourselves accountable and respecting the contribution of others.
We communicate effectively and give each other the space to do the job.
60 70 80 90 100 Focus on sustainability % Positive We take a measured approach in our business strategy and in our acceptance and management of risk to secure the long term viability of the business.
Source: Amlin Employee Survey 2006 Moving forward, the results will be discussed recruitment, induction and performance intended that the remainder of staff will attend with staff in local work areas to identify local level management.
one in the first half of 2007. actions and to focus on areas for further improvement.
The Company, together with Blessing White, a Feedback from the MORI survey and from those consultancy specialising in the development of workshops held to date has confirmed a strong The Companys Employee Consultation Forum corporate values, designed a series of one-day correlation between Amlins core values and ECF, which meets on a quarterly basis, also workshops for all staff.
This programme is designed those of employees.
provides a valuable opportunity for staff to to help communicate Amlins core values across feedback views to management.
The ECF the business while providing each employee with represents all employees and encourages the an opportunity to consider how he or she can active participation in the affairs of the Company apply them day to day in the performance of his by providing a forum where new ideas, policy or her role.
As at 31 December, 32% of staff had changes and business matters can be attended one of these workshops and it is discussed freely and proactively.
The ECF was established in 2004 and during the last two years has been actively involved in discussions on the Initiatives for 2007 following subjects: During 2007, we are continuing to work towards our employee goals with the following objectives: Business strategy: Benefits: Review and benchmark the core and flexible Further development of core-curricula Training and development: benefits package to ensure that Amlins reward matrices, to include know-how capability and Staff communication: and proposition remains up-to-date and competency requirements, for key technical Marketing.
Working with business areas to identify Completing the roll-out of Amlins core values Culture and values opportunities and draw up action plans across the Group.
Reviewing and updating The biggest development initiative carried out for further improvement in our employment HR processes to help embed the values and during 2006 has been the roll out of our core values.
practices arising from the 2006 MORI qualities which have contributed to the Earlier in 2006, the management team finalised its survey.
work on core values which captured its beliefs in The design and implementation of leadership the underlying values that will contribute to development and talent management sustaining the success of the Group.
These have programmes to meet the needs of the now been incorporated into our Code of Groups succession plan.
Conduct and, in due course, will be incorporated into some of our business processes such as Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 27 Operating and Financial Review People a wealth of experience In addition to the Executive Directors whose biographies are shown on page 46, Amlin has a wealth of experience and expertise among its senior management across its functions.
Among them are the following.
Simon Beale Rod Dampier James Illingworth David Harris Divisional Underwriter, Marine Divisional Underwriter, Aviation Chief Risk Officer Operations Director Simon has specialised in marine hull Rod is a Fellow of the Chartered James is a member of the LMA Risk David plays an active role in London business since joining Lloyds Insurance Institute, Associate Member of Management Committee and was market reform, serving on various LMA in 1984 and is recognised as an the Royal Aeronautical Society and a elected to Lloyds Underwriting and Lloyds committees and is currently on international leader in this field.
member and former Chairman of the Agents Association in July 2000. a part-time secondment to Lloyds.
He heads Amlins Marine division.
After graduation, James spent eight Having completed a law degree, Simon is a previous chairman Having begun his underwriting career years as a reinsurance broker with David joined Royal Insurance in 1985. to both Londons Joint Hull with Royal Insurance marine Greig Fester now Benfield before Immediately prior to the merger Committee and the Ocean Hull department in 1967, Rod moved to joining Stace Barr Underwriting between Royal and Sun Alliance, Committee of the International Union the aviation division in 1971.
He then Agencies, and two years later he was the Multinational Claims of Marine Insurance.
joined Aviation and General in 1985, becoming MD of the new advisory Manager with worldwide He now represents the London which merged with most other UK company, Stace Barr Insurance accountabilities.
After the merger he market on IUMIs Executive composite insurers aviation Capital.
He became a Director of became the Operations Manager for Committee.
Simon is an elected departments to form British Aviation Angerstein Underwriting Trust plc in the London Market Division of RSA, member of Lloyds Market Association Insurance Group now Global Aviation 1997 and, following its merger with managing Human Resources, Marine Committee, a member of in 1991 where he was a senior the Murray Lawrence Group, James Information Technology, Marketing Lloyds Register General Committee underwriter until 1997.
He then moved was elected Chairman of Amlin and Divisional Expenses.
He joined and a Trustee of the London Maritime to Amlin as the divisional underwriter Underwriting from July 1999 to April AXA Insurance in 2000 and became Officer Cadets Scheme.
Experience Experience Experience Experience Amlin: 1994 Amlin: 1997 Amlin: 1991 Amlin: 2003 Insurance: 1984 Insurance: 1967 Insurance: 1983 Insurance: 1985 Stuart MacKellar Mark Farrow Jayne Thorburn James Nugent Managing Director, Amlin Bermuda Group Human Resources Director Chief Investment Officer Group Underwriting Manager Stuart is a member of the Institute of Mark is a Chartered Member of the Jayne is a Member of the UK Society of James is a member of the Chartered Chartered Accountants in England and Institute of Personnel & Development.
Investment Professionals, a Fellow of Insurance Institute.
Having started his Wales and the Institute of Chartered the Chartered Institute of Bankers, an career underwriting fine art and specie Prior to joining Amlin, Mark was HR Accountants of Bermuda.
Associate of the Institute of Chartered business with C E Heath, James moved Director with AXA PPP Healthcare Secretaries and Administrators and a to the marine market to underwrite Stuart is responsible for all nonhaving worked on major re-structuring Member of the Chartered Institute of offshore energy, hull and cargo underwriting activities of Amlin Bermuda programmes to prepare the PPP Management.
In 1989 James joined and works closely with Underwriting Healthcare business for sale and Murray Lawrence as Deputy Director John Andrews to enhance and subsequently managing two Jayne was previously Head of Underwriter of F C Bowring, syndicate develop Amlin Bermudas strategic integration programmes following the International Equities at Halifax Fund 28, with responsibility for the direct position in the Group.
acquisitions by Guardian Royal Management Limited, where she marine account.
Exchange 1998 and AXA 1999. established and ran a wide range of Trained as a chartered accountant Prior to AXA PPP Healthcare he portfolios.
For two years prior to In 1996, he moved to the KJ Coles with BDO Stoy Hayward in London, worked in a variety of senior HR and joining Amlin, Jayne worked as an marine division as one of the first Stuart moved to Bermuda in 1995 as Personnel roles with ICI and Kimberlyindependent management consultant underwriting managers in the Lloyds a senior auditor in the insurance Clark.
advising a number of blue chip market.
Charged with putting controls practice of KPMG Peat Marwick.
He companies, whilst completing an and procedures in place to test and joined Alea in 1999 and, from 2004 Experience Executive MBA at Cranfield University challenge the quality of underwriting, onwards, he was Chief Financial Amlin: 2001 School of Management.
he moved to Amlins Non-marine Officer and Head of the Bermuda Industry: 1989 division in 2000 as divisional and operations of Alea Bermuda Ltd. and Experience Group underwriting manager.
Alea Group Holdings Bermuda Ltd. Amlin: 2002 Investments: 1985 Experience Experience Amlin: 1989 Amlin: 2006 Insurance: 1976 Insurance: 1995 28 Amlin plc Annual Report 2006 Insight and initiative.
