managing our impact Environment Climate change and the insurance industry residents of Tower Hamlets, Hackney and As a financial services business employing Climate change affects an estimated 35% Newham where previously no such care was 620 people, mainly in the UK, Amlins direct to 40% of global insured risks and is thus a available to those communities.
environmental impact is relatively low.
significant external risk to the business.
Significant funds have been raised for our Global climate change, however, is expected to As an underwriter of property and catastrophe chosen charities during 2006 by staff have a major impact on the insurance industry risk, Amlin has a keen interest in understanding participation in triathlons, sponsored runs, a and on its evaluation of insurance risks, the effects of climate change and ensuring that wine tasting and treks in Peru and Chile.
The particularly wind, flood and fire risks.
changes to our risk profile arising from climate Company provides matched funding and up to change are factored into our risk management, five working days per employee per annum to Amlin aims to manage the environmental impact structuring and pricing of products.
Amlin enable staff to take on these challenges.
of its activities, including in such areas as internal subscribes to a number of risk modelling processes, responsible consumption and agencies which are evaluating the impact of During 2006 we have developed modest staff energy use, re-cycling and by encouraging our climate risk.
Amlin is also supportive of the engagement with our community partners, suppliers and clients to act responsibly regarding thought leadership programme on global climate ChildLine and Hackney Quest and have decided environmental impact and risks.
During 2006 Amlin: change initiated in 2006 by Lloyds on behalf of to retain both partnerships for 2007 in order to Transferred its corporate taxi account to a the market.
In 2006 our funds provider that has undertaken to offset fully have enabled ChildLine to produce three carbon emissions on our behalf: Charity and community Casenotes publications, designed to raise Added a specific request for information on Amlin aims to play a positive role in the awareness of the issues facing young children.
environmental policies from new suppliers: community through charitable donations and Collected and measured data on our 2005 encouraging employees to engage with local We provided regular evening football coaching carbon emissions from all UK sites, including community partners.
to Hackney Questors and organised two special from heat and power, business travel and events in 2006: an excursion to Twickenham commuting, adopting the GHG Protocol as The Companys charities budget is agreed each Rugby Stadium to attend the schools competition: recommended by the Carbon Disclosure year by the Board and is overseen by a Charities and a days sailing from Southampton on the Project: Committee whose members are drawn from Lloyds yacht Lutine as pictured below.
Both Primarily for environmental reasons, elected to across the Group.
The focus of charitable these events were hosted by Amlin staff and participate in the Financial Times Crisis support in on children and health in London and were a positive experience for all involved.
Christmas Card Challenge instead of sending other areas local to our offices as this is relevant Christmas cards in the UK: and both to our employees and our future.
Amlin is also supporting Little Havens, an EssexSuccessfully reduced its UK paper consumption, Summarised below are some of Amlins 2006 based childrens hospice.
Fundraising has been following the 2005 introduction of doublecharity and community activities.
linked with Sports and Social Committee events sided printing and increased use of organised by our UK Commercial division based scanning.
Macmillan Cancer Support remains Amlins in Chelmsford, with additional funds raised by primary charity partner.
Following the success of one staff member completing the Mount As tenants in several of our offices, we do not our three-year commitment in supporting a Kilimanjaro trek in 2006. have primary control over all energy purchasing palliative care radiographer post at Guys and and waste management decisions.
However, we St. Thomas Hospital, this post is now being In its first full year of operation, Amlin Bermuda fully support the initiatives taken by Aviva, our St. funded by the health authority.
In September has made charitable donations to several local Helens landlords.
2006, we commenced funding of a bi-lingual charities including the Bermuda Foundation for occupational therapist, again for an initial Insurance Studies, the Family Centre and The Amlin has won a Gold Award every year since three-year period.
This professional is Bermuda Society of Arts.
1998 under the City of London Clean City Award providing advanced stage palliative care for in recognition of our waste management practices.
Weather patterns and the publication of both the Stern Report on the Economics of Climate Change and the more recent report by the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change have materially heightened concerns relating to global warming.
In response to this, Amlin intends to actively increase awareness of the risks and actions that can be taken by employees at home and at work.
We also plan to explore options for mitigating our carbon emissions, which for 2005 were estimated at 5,827 tonnes of CO2.
