Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Corporate social responsibility measuring and managing our impact Corporate social responsibility measuring and As a leading UK based insurer, Amlin aims to We aim to engage with and build relationships with conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
communities of relevance to Amlin.
We place high emphasis on integrity and professionalism in our relationships internally with employees and externally with third parties.
We remain a member of the FTSE4Good Index further develop our employment practices.
Amlin also has a whistle blowing policy setting and we continue to utilise the Corporate Included in the output was positive feedback out procedures for employees to raise, in Responsibility Exchange, a single platform from on our internal communications: confidence, matters of concern and, where which subscriber investors, analysts, media and Obtained shareholder approval for a Share appropriate, for an independent investigation of peers may source relevant data to report on Incentive Plan which is intended to result in all such matters.
employees having a stake in the Company: and Corporate responsibility information about Amlin Continued to invest in the development of Client and broker relationships can be found at http: cre.
com employees, in particular with the design of a Amlin places a high emphasis on integrity in core competency framework for claims dealing with brokers and clients.
Additionally we In this report, we summarise our Corporate personnel.
aim to provide high levels of service.
Social Responsibility activity in relation to employees, clients, the Lloyds market, the The good conduct of employees in their Commentary on our client relations is provided environment, charity and community.
management of business relationships and with on pages 20 to 23.
In 2006, Amlin has: colleagues is critical to our Corporate Social Continued to research broker and client Employees endeavours.
In 2006 the Company adopted a relationships with a view to better Amlin aims to be a responsible employer, set of corporate values, as shown on page 27, understanding their expectations of us: and operating first class employment practices and to help guide employees and sustain the long Led and been engaged in a number of engaging with employees.
Activities aimed at term success of the Group.
The values have initiatives, some involving the wider Lloyds meeting and advancing our position in relation to been incorporated in the Groups Code of Conduct, market, aimed at removing inefficient market these aims are outlined on pages 24 to 27. which is available on our website, and workshops processes and improving client service.
In particular, in 2006 Amlin has: have been initiated to provide employees with Through MORI conducted a second survey of the opportunity to consider how they can apply The Group operates a client complaints policy opinions on Amlin as an employer, gathering the values in their respective roles.
with procedures for reporting, investigating and valuable feedback which will be used to responding to complaints.
Complaints are logged centrally, their resolution is monitored and the nature and frequency of complaints is Employee communication how do you feel about the reported to operating company boards.
amount of information you currently receive?
About the right amount Too little Too much No opinion The Lloyds market Amlin is one of the largest participants in the Amlins performance 89 81 2 Lloyds market and 86% of Amlins 2006 Amlins future plans 66 32 2 premiums were written in Lloyds.
As such, Amlin How your division department is performing 65 33 11 seeks to contribute to the sound governance and operation of the market so that it remains 63 33 14 The reasons behind major decisions attractive to brokers and clients for the News about other parts of the business 48 46 15 placement of their risks.
In 2006: 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Positive Representatives of Amlin have participated on Source: Amlin Employee Survey 2006 the Council of Lloyds and on a number of market associations: Employee communication benchmarking Amlin and five other like-minded Lloyds businesses engaged in driving forward a number of initiatives aimed at improving the About the right amount Too little Too much No opinion attractiveness of the market: and The reason behind major decisions Amlin seconded its Operations Director to Lloyds on a part time basis to help Lloyds MORI Top 10 Norm 40 53 16 manage market wide process change.
