Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 86 Corporate social responsibility committee report This report provides details of the role of the Corporate Social During the year the Committee met to consider the conclusions of Responsibility Committee and the work it has undertaken during the Groups CSR Annual Conference that took place in June 2006, the year.
and which was addressed by both the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the The Committee was established by the Board in January 2006 and proposed content and scope of the Companys 2007 CSR Report, held its first meeting in June 2006.
The purpose of the Committee monitored the management of the CSR risks affecting the Group is to provide guidance and direction to the Groups corporate social and helped establish a process by which CSR related targets responsibility CSR programme, review the risks and opportunities and objectives within the Groups individual businesses are set relating to the eight individual elements in the programme namely: and monitored.
standards of business conduct, environment, human rights, health and safety, community, customers, suppliers and workforce and to The Committee considered a report from the Norwich Union monitor progress.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are business that explained how it was handling the social issues arising available from the Group Company Secretary and can be found on from a major cost and efficiency review in that business announced the Companys website www.
in September 2006, which would result in a significant reduction in its UK workforce.
The following directors served on the Committee during the year: During the Boards visit to the Groups Indian operations in Period September 2006, the Committee held a meeting with the senior Member From To managers responsible for CSR in the Groups life assurance business Wim Dik Chairman 14 January 2006 To date Aviva India and its offshoring operations Aviva Global Services Guillermo fide la Dehesa 14 January 2006 To date in order to gain a deeper understanding of the relevant local issues and assess how CSR was being embedded in those businesses.
Richard Harvey 14 January 2006 To date In line with the Combined Code requirement the Board undertook Carole Piwnica 14 January 2006 To date a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, Lord Sharman 14 January 2006 To date including the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
Derek Stevens 14 January 2006 31 December 2006 This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 28 February 2007.
The Committee met on three occasions in 2006 and the members attendance record is set out in the Corporate governance report.
Wim Dik The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Committee.
