Governance Corporate responsibility Responsible banking Ethical indices The past year has seen another marked increase in the profile of Barclays is a long-standing member of the Dow Jones Sustainability corporate responsibility as a topic of global strategic significance.
Our ranking in the Business in the issues have dominated debate the emergence of climate change and Community Corporate Responsibility Index rose to 3rd position out of its consequences as the most pressing challenge facing the world and 131 companies.
In the Carbon Disclosure Project, we were ranked in the the evolution of thought on social, ethical and environmental issues top 50 of the global FT 500 companies.
under the overarching concept of sustainability.
Our customers For Barclays, corporate responsibility is embodied in the concept of An unswerving focus on our customers lies at the heart of our Guiding responsible banking reflecting its place at the heart of our strategy as Principles.
We are committed to providing them with excellent products an integral part of the way in which we do business.
Firmly based on the and services and doing so in accordance with our ten established clear values enshrined in our Guiding Principles, responsible banking principles for treating customers fairly, with openness and with means making informed, reasoned and ethical decisions in our business transparency.
Our aim is to improve the information we give to dealings with customers, clients, employees and our other stakeholders.
customers so that they can make better informed decisions in line with Our Guiding Principles of Winning Together, Customer Focus, The Best their own circumstances and needs.
2 People, Pioneering and Trusted describe how we expect our employees We have made a large investment in improving our customer service, to behave with external stakeholders and each other.
Responsible most notably in our UK Retail Business.
We are, therefore, encouraged banking is the approach by which we aim to progress towards to see that the progress we reported last year has been maintained in the sustainability recognising that we will succeed in our strategic and areas of customer satisfaction and advocacy, as we have implemented financial goals only if we have a strong commitment and focus on steps to improve products and to rectify challenges in key areas such as achieving sustainable outcomes for all stakeholders.
mortgage processing, where we have made major changes.
We make our greatest contribution to society by being good at what we Across our other businesses UK Business Banking, Barclays Capital, do and by doing so responsibly by helping our customers meet their Barclays Global Investors, Barclays Wealth and in our African and financial goals through providing competitive products and services European retail operations, strong levels of customer satisfaction and that contribute to economic growth, and in contributing to healthy advocacy have been sustained.
financial systems around the world.
During the year, we announced our intention to merge our network of Our corporate responsibility priorities are informed by regular dialogue Woolwich branches in the UK into Barclays, at the same time investing with a wide range of organisations and in 2006 we undertook a much in our branch network and in the Woolwich as our mortgage brand.
broader programme of formal and informal dialogue with investors, This will give Woolwich customers access to all Barclays branches and non-governmental organisations, customers, our employees and ATMs and vice versa.
The branches we are bringing together are near politicians.
Our approach is focused on the following areas: neighbours 300 metres or less apart and there will be no change in Our customers our community footprint as a result.
Financial inclusion Financial inclusion Responsible lending With 2.7 billion people across the world living on less than US$2 Environment and climate change per day and some 2.8 million UK adults without access to a bank Supply chain management account, increasing financial inclusion is both a social imperative and Our employees a commercial opportunity.
Our focus in this area has been on our Community investment businesses in the UK and in Africa and specifically on improving both This is underpinned by a strong governance framework.
access to banking and to affordable credit and savings.
Governance In South Africa, Absas Customer Education Programme is making The Group Chief Executive, supported by the Group Executive banking more accessible to customers at the lower end of the mass Committee, has primary responsibility for embedding responsible market through a range of audio visual channels, whilst in the UK we banking throughout Barclays.
This includes setting strategy and the continued to support agencies such as the Money Advice Trust, Citizens identification, review and reporting of all business issues whether Advice and Business Debtline.
risks or commercial opportunities which have an important social, We increased the number of our Cash Card basic bank Accounts, environmental or ethical dimension.
designed for low income and vulnerable people in the UK, by 85,000 to The Brand and Reputation Committee, a sub-committee of Group 464,000 and held a roundtable discussion with three consumer groups Executive Committee, is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd, Deputy Chairman Citizens Advice, the National Consumer Council and SAFE Services and a non-executive Director on the Board.
The Committees role is to Against Financial Exclusion, an initiative of Toynbee Hall to inform identify and manage issues of reputational significance to the Barclays improvements and increase access to this account.
The Committee met three times during the year.
been added to the account and, based on the feedback, we are giving more profile to the savings needs of these customers.
In the UK, our The Community Partnerships Committee sets the policy and provides personal current account customers can continue to make cash governance for our global community investment, and the withdrawals free of charge through the Post Office network.
Environmental Steering Group provides direction and governance to support our environmental and climate change strategies.
Corporate responsibility is firmly established as one of the Board Governance Standards, providing for internal control and governance and establishing responsible banking as a key area of profile and measurement within our risk management processes.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 143 Corporate responsibility Absa has been addressing access in South Africa through various We are also helping to combat climate change through the means.
Portable branches are bringing banking to deprived areas, development of carbon-related products and services, such as our enabling a full range of transactions to be handled efficiently.
13 were launch of the first carbon-neutral debit card in the UK.
1.5 million more South Africans were brought into continued to support the vital carbon trading market, where it remains banking via the Mzansi account, of which Absa continues to be the the most active trader.
Our Natural Resources Team has provided longleading bank provider.
The bank has also implemented its AllPay and term finance for over 2,600MW of renewable generating capacity, Sekulula services, enabling 2.3 million social grant beneficiaries to including onshore windfarms, landfill gas extraction plants and bioaccess their payments in four provinces.
We remain the leading private sector supporter of credit unions in We have committed strongly to the efficient management of our the UK, whilst our pilot of microbanking in Ghana through the resources, reducing waste and increasing recycling.
We extended our traditional Susu system proved very successful, reaching over 80,000 ISO14001 certified Environmental Management System, with our disadvantaged market traders and supporting the UN Millennium operations in France and Absa in South Africa becoming the first major Development Goals.
Work is now under way to develop microfinance banks in those countries to achieve such accreditation.
programmes for implementation in other African countries.
As a result of this activity, we improved our score in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, retaining our 1st position amongst global Responsible lending The consumer lending market in the UK has continued to be both banks for environmental reporting and joint 1st in environmental performance.
In the UK, we achieved 2nd position in the Business intensely competitive and challenging.
Our commitment is to provide clear and straightforward information to our customers so that they in the Environment Index.
can readily see the terms and conditions and then make an informed As a co-founder of the Equator Principles, which require banks to personal decision.
We have further developed the use of summary undertake detailed social and environmental impact assessments when information on credit card and personal loan application forms and financing projects such as dams and mines, we contributed to the statements, to help customers understand our terms and pricing and revision and strengthening of the Principles.
The threshold amount also, for example, the implications of making only the minimum has been reduced from US$50m to US$10m and criteria tightened, such payment on their credit card outstandings.
that they now include more robust procedures for public consultation We are working closely with other banks and finance providers to share and a greater focus on social impacts.
information about how people manage their accounts, in the belief Project finance deals whole Barclays Group that this has a key role to play in helping banks assist their customers AB C through responsible lending practices and customer care.
Another Higher Medium Lower Total development is to encourage responsible borrowing through the Category Risk Risk Risk 2006 introduction of our Flexi-Rate card, which offers a lower interest rate Number of project to those customers who repay more of their outstanding credit card finance deals 8 10 18 36 balance each month.
Deals completed Environment and climate change or pending 4 9 17 30 The effects of climate change constitute the most pressing challenge to global sustainability and we continue to reflect this in our policies of which, number and actions.
As a bank, our impacts are both direct through our own a where E S related operations and indirect through our lending and other business changes were made 4 9 17 30 activities with customers and clients.
Deals considered, but One of our key initiatives has been to make our UK operations carbonnot participated in 4116 neutral.
We have achieved this through significant investment in energy Projects referred efficiency and through the purchase of renewable energy 50% of our from EU 6 4 15 25 UK operations are now being supplied from renewable sources.
Part of our remaining offset of over 200,000 tonnes of CO2 is provided through Projects referred the purchase of carbon credits in the market, together with a strong from Africa 1225 contribution from community-based sustainable energy schemes such Projects referred as solar and wind power in Africa and India.
from Asia Pacific 1203 Barclays CO2 emissions from energy and travel Projects referred from North America 0213 a E S Environmental and social issues.
Africa 37% During the year, we updated our internal environmental and social risk guidance, extending it to over 50 different industry sectors.
This UK 48% guidance, which was developed with input from environmental NGOs, now reflects more explicit information on social and other human rights-related impacts.
This review also benefited from our work as the only bank participating in the Business Leaders Initiative on Human US and Asia 12% Rights.
The guidance has been shared with the United Nations Europe 3% Environment Programme Finance Initiative and has been made available to their 167 members around the world.
Barclays PLC 144 Annual Report 2006 Governance Supply chain management UK employment statistics Responsible sourcing principles are an important component in our 2006 2005 2004 commitment to sustainability whilst, at the same time, enabling us to Total employee headcount 62,400 59,100 60,000 manage business risk.
A key achievement in 2006 was the circulation Average length of service years 9.8 10.2 10.5 of our new Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire to our suppliers Percentage working part time 21.8% 23.7% 24.6% operating in sectors of higher or medium level environmental or social Sickness absence rate 4.0% 4.2% 4.4% risk.
So far, we have reviewed some 60 suppliers, accounting for Turnover rate 19.0% 20.0% 19.3% approximately 1.5bn of our total annual spend.
Resignation rate 12.0% 11.5% 11.8% The information gathered through our questionnaire is helping to Women in Barclays ensure that the social and environmental policies of our suppliers are in Percentage of all employees 61.0% 62.2% 63.4% line with Barclays own standards.
In those cases where suppliers have Percentage of management grades 33.0% 30.9% 30.5% performed relatively poorly, we intend to work with them to help them Percentage of senior executives 12.9% 10.9% 10.5% improve performance.
2 Ethnic minorities in Barclays In 2006, Absa in South Africa spent over 55% of their annual Percentage of all employees 12.7% 11.3% 10.5% sourcing total with businesses qualifying under the Black Economic Percentage of management grades 8.1% 7.1% 7.0% Empowerment guidelines.
These support the South African Percentage of senior executives 6.1% 3.6% 3.3% Governments objective to ensure that its citizens have the opportunity to participate in the economic progress of the country.
Disabled employees in Barclays Percentage of all employees 5.0% 3.4% 3.2% In the UK, we worked with our cleaning contractors to secure new terms and conditions for some 2,400 cleaning staff in our 2,000 UK branches.
Notes This groundbreaking initiative means that the cleaners will now benefit All headcount and FTE numbers relate to direct employees therefore excluding from improved pay and opportunities for training, as well as access to a agency staff and contractors.
pension, sick pay, increased holiday entitlements and annual leave.
All employee statistics relate to Barclays in the UK excluding Barclays Global Investors approx 800 UK employees.
Our employees All data as at 31st December.
The commitment, motivation and talent of our employees lies at the Percentage of disabled employees is derived using responses to the GRCB and heart of our approach to sustainability.
During 2006, we continued our Central Support Employee Opinion Survey, 84% of UK employees.
pioneering partnership agreement with Amicus, our UK trade union, Sickness Absence percentage excludes Barclays Capital population.
and signed a joint Equality Charter that commits us to advancing UK historical data has been restated to include Barclays Capital and therefore will equality for our employees.
differ from previously reported figures.
Our annual independent Employee Opinion Survey showed further improvements.
87% of our colleagues participated in the survey and Occupational health is an important concern for us and we maintain a 84% expressed pride in working for Barclays, with Employee comprehensive HIV AIDS programme across all our African businesses.
Employee perceptions of This provides counselling, testing and treatment, including free antiBarclays as a responsible company showed further strong progress.
retroviral drugs, for our employees and their dependants.
We also have extensive schemes to support business customers and our wider Employee opinion survey results communities and have been active in supporting malaria programmes % Positive Scores in various African countries.
2006 2005 Community investment Perceptions of Leadership 62 58 2006 was an important year for our community investment Employer of Choice 70 67 programme.
After extensive research and consultation with stakeholders both inside and outside Barclays, we are now Barclays operates with integrity 84 80 implementing a global programme that unites all our businesses Barclays is an environmentally across the world and which complements our business strategy.
responsible company 77 76 Our investment is now being directed towards three key themes: Barclays is a socially responsible company 83 80 Banking on brighter futures I am proud to work for Barclays 84 80 Looking after local communities Charity begins at work Diversity amongst our employees is both a long-term commitment and a business imperative.
21% of our senior employees are female and this is a start, but we accept that there is more to do.
We boosted our intake of disabled graduates to our summer internship programme with good progress across our businesses and we benefited from a proactive partnership with Spains Fundacin Once.
6% of our UK senior managers are now from an ethnic minority background whilst, over the past five years, the number of our ethnic minority employees in the UK has risen from 7% to 13%.
In South Africa, Absa continued to make strong progress with its commitments under the Financial Sector Charter to increase the number of black managers at all levels and, as a sub-set, black female managers.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 145 Corporate responsibility Banking on brighter futures focuses on the provision of money advice, tackling financial exclusion, helping disadvantaged people into work and supporting their broader education.
An example of our initiatives is Barclaycard Horizons a three-year, 3m community programme with four national partners, which aims to support 50,000 disadvantaged single parents in working their way out of debt and poverty.
Looking after local communities is about investing in the many neighbourhoods around the world where we have a presence.
By far our biggest community project in the UK is Barclays Spaces for Sports, now in its third and final year.
To date, over 120 community sports facilities have been completed and 3,600 coaching kits provided to local groups, benefiting some 320,000 people in disadvantaged areas.
Charity begins at work is dedicated to, and driven by, our employees.
In 2006, 33,000 Barclays employees and pensioners around the world received support for fundraising or volunteering.
One focus of our volunteering is Make a Difference Day, now covering 25 countries worldwide.
Last year, 11,000 employees contributed their business skills, with international participation up 63% compared to the previous year.
We are a member of the PerCent Club a group of companies that has undertaken to ensure that investment in the community over time amounts to at least 1% of UK pre-tax profit.
Further information Our 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report contains more detailed information on our activities and will be available from 26th April 2007 and online at www.
We are committed to providing more information on these issues and our report has been produced taking account of the international AA1000 Standard and the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative sustainability reporting guidelines, including the Financial Sector Supplements.
Barclays PLC 146 Annual Report 2006 Financial statements 3 Financial statements page Presentation of information 148 Independent Auditors report Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms report 149 UK Audit Report of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Barclays PLC 149 Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC 150 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC 151 Accounting policies 151 Accounting presentation 161 Consolidated income statement 162 Consolidated balance sheet 163 Statement of recognised income and expense 164 Consolidated cash flow statement 165 Parent company accounts 166 Notes to the accounts 168 Barclays Bank PLC accounts 278 US GAAP financial data 291 3 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2006 147
