Corporate and social responsibility In continuing to build Beazley as a premier We strive to ensure the health, safety and Social responsibility risk-taking business, we take our corporate, welfare of our employees and anyone else We encourage employee involvement in a social and environmental responsibility who may be affected by our operations.
We constantly consider the ethical Employees are expected to take reasonable Furlonge has recently been appointed implications of how we operate in our day-tocare for their own health and safety at work chairman of the Lloyds Community day business and put policies and procedures as well as those of others, and to co-operate Programme Management Board in London, in place that reflect our commitment.
We also with management to create a safe and and encourages staff to involve themselves recognise the regulatory and reputational healthy working environment.
All employees, in helping pupils in schools in the Tower risks associated with ethical practice and contractors and visitors are subject to Hamlets area, one of the most deprived areas adhere closely to the Association of British induction, training and supervision in aspects in the country.
The largest programme is Insurers ABI guidelines published in October of health & safety and additional training in Reading Partners, where members of staff 2001 on the disclosure of listed companies ergonomics and fire safety awareness is volunteer their lunch hour to sit with children social responsibility policies and endeavours.
All health and and help them with their literacy.
There are safety matters are communicated via notice currently over 20 volunteers, including two Intrinsic to our culture is the ethical approach boards, email memos, the intranet and via executive directors helping with the various to business conducted by and towards all our safety representatives.
In addition, two stakeholders, including management, staff, directors participated in the police mentoring We believe that the knowledge and skills clients, suppliers and shareholders.
The programme, where a senior business person of our employees are a key element of values that form the essence of our brand is paired with a senior police officer, in one organisational success and therefore invest and our working culture are professionalism, of three of East Londons most challenging in training and development.
We ensure that integrity, effectiveness and being dynamic.
boroughs, in order to help them develop their this is accessible by everyone and recognised management skills.
as a shared responsibility between individual Corporate responsibility employees and the organisation.
In 2007, we will extend our involvement We are an equal opportunities employer and into broader areas of the community make it our policy to offer equal treatment to Employees are kept informed of encompassing a sports programme and employees and prospective employees, developments in business through our interview training.
ensuring that all are treated fairly and with internal communications including, formal dignity and respect.
We absolutely do not company-wide briefings that occur twice a The group made charitable donations during permit unlawful discrimination of any kind month, team meetings and an informationthe year ended 31 December 2006 of against any person, to include on the grounds rich intranet.
The groups of gender, race, nationality or ethnic origin, charity budget is managed by a charity age, disability, religious beliefs, sexuality, We are proud of our working culture that committee chaired by Nicholas Furlonge, marital status, working patterns or pregnancy.
ensures that we achieve our aim to attract and consideration is given to a wide range of and retain talented staff in competitive activities, particularly where members of staff We are committed to taking positive action to markets and supports them as they strive are engaged in fund-raising activities.
For ensure that all employees, whether full-time to perform to an excellent standard.
example, these activities raised over 7,000 or part-time, receive equality of opportunity in competing in a dragon boat race and over recruitment, training, development, promotion 2,000 in a white-water rafting competition.
30 30 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Also, our annual Christmas card is distributed In the head office building, motion electronically to over 10,000 key clients and detectors are fitted to lighting systems to contacts, giving them the opportunity to indicate ensure electricity usage is kept to a the charity that they wish us to support.
minimum: and We also actively encourage the use of In October 2006 we introduced a payrollpublic transport and provide ample cycle giving scheme in the UK in association with racks, shower facilities and locker storage the Charities Aid Foundation.
By the end of for those employees who cycle into work.
December 2006, 10% of staff had joined the scheme, donating 7,391 annually to 31 We are also currently undertaking an different charities.
environmental impact assessment of all our UK operations, including an assessment of No political donations were made by the their carbon emissions.
group in either the current or prior reporting period.
Environmental responsibility We are committed to achieving best practice in all the areas of the business where there may be an impact on the environment.
From our head office in Plantation Place in London we encourage environmentally aware behaviour including: A policy for minimising waste by scanning risks and claims, which enables employees worldwide to view documents electronically rather than on paper: Recycling facilities for plastics, glass, paper, cardboard and used toner cartridges at several points throughout the building: Glass refillable bottles are used in lieu of disposable ones: Recycling bins for old mobile telephones for charity: Multi-functional scanner, printing, copying and faxing facilities exist and double-sided printing is encouraged: Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 31 31
