Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 28 28 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Governance Corporate social responsibility Bradford & Bingley has continued to develop Our CSR report, which is published separately, Buy-to-let its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR was again independently verified by We are the market leaders in buy-to-let, programme during 2006.
In response to the Bureau Veritas.
accounting for around 20% of the market.
All Stern Review on the Economics of Climate of our buy-to-let products offer flexible payment Change published in October 2006, which Bradford & Bingley is a national member of features as an integral part of the mortgage states the benefits of strong early action on Business in the Community and the London which enable people to overpay or underpay climate change, we became a CarbonNeutral Benchmarking Group.
their mortgage or even take a payment holiday.
company on 1 January 2007, offsetting all our This is part of our commitment to understanding Carbon Dioxide CO emissions.
Bradford & Bingley continues to be a member our customers needs and responding to 2 of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible changing lifestyles and employment patterns.
Bradford & Bingley has also reduced its CO companies, and in 2006 we were proud to be 2 emissions by 70% by switching to a renewable named as one of the top 100 Companies That When looking at our purpose of building a energy electricity contract.
Count by the Sunday Times where we were better future, we can see that buy-to-let has ranked 52nd in the UK in the Business in the increased the availability of rental housing We achieved our 2006 targets and have set Community Corporate Responsibility Index, stock in the UK, making it easier for people challenging targets for 2007. rising from 57th in 2005. to find affordable decent housing.
Bradford & Bingleys product range has been at the Bradford & Bingley believes in placing CSR at Bradford & Bingley was again awarded two forefront of buy-to-let and we intend to keep the heart of its business activities.
We aim to Big Ticks in the Business in the Community our market leading position.
conduct our business in a socially responsible Awards for Excellence for our work with manner in respect of the environment, staff, Shelter and Business Action on Self-cert customers, shareholders and local Homelessness.
Our self-cert product range aims to help communities.
customers who are finding their employment Mark Stevens, Managing Director, Strategy, patterns becoming increasingly more diverse We continue to structure our CSR reporting Communications and HR, continues as and therefore do not fit the requirements of along the FORGE framework for CSR the executive responsible for the Groups most mainstream high street lenders.
Management and Reporting for the Financial CSR programme.
We report against the four Self-employed customers make up almost major themes identified by FORGE as being Doing the right thing in the marketplace 10% of the working population source: Office those most relevant to financial services Lending of National Statistics and multiple jobs or organisations Marketplace, Workplace, Bradford & Bingleys residential lending income sources and seasonal or short term Community and Environment.
The FORGE activity focuses on a range of niche areas contracts are common.
Part-time working Group is a consortium of financial institutions providing mortgages for individuals who need now accounts for 25% of the total labour force and involves the British Bankers Association a more specialist product than those available source: Labour Force Survey.
and the Association of British Insurers.
in the mainstream mortgage market.
uk forge main products are buy-to-let and self-cert.
It is these customers that our self-cert product range is designed to help.
With the valuable underwriting experience that we have gained in specialist lending markets we are able to work with our customers to decide how much they can afford to borrow.
2006 Goals 2007 Targets To develop and set targets for the KPIs of To lead a successful Seeing is Believing visit In addition to these specialist loans, Bradford our CSR programme Achieved to Bradford & Bingley also has a portfolio of traditional residential mortgages, which are secured on To support the social and economic To incorporate financial literacy into our UK residential property and are sold through regeneration of West Yorkshire Ongoing community investment schemes our branch network.
achievement To increase the number of staff using For further information on our To launch further product initiatives with a environmentally friendly transport schemes 6-8 lending products see pages CSR element Achieved To reduce the carbon footprint of the business We also provide commercial property loans to To continue to increase staff involvement in corporate customers.
These loans are secured To actively seek feedback on our CSR our CSR programme Achieved on income-producing property or pre-let programme development schemes and to housing To continue to support Shelters freephone associations to purchase and renovate housing advice line, increasing the number housing stock.
of calls to the helpline Achieved Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 29 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 29 Bottom right: Dr Mohammed Ali OBE, Chief Executive of QED, at the House of Lords reception.
We provide loans to over 110 housing As well as selling mortgages and growing early in 2007 we will be recruiting a new associations financing almost 100,000 social savings balances, the branch network also Learning Manager to manage the external rented homes throughout the UK.
maintains and deepens relationships with our programmes we use such as the Young customers.
To achieve this, Bradford & Bingley Enterprise Scheme.
Savings offers a wide choice of highly competitive Bradford & Bingleys branch and third party products from a range of providers including A new performance management process network offers a competitive range of deposit general insurance, wealth and personal loan has been launched and the use of personal based savings and investment products, backed products, which are provided by third parties.
development plans will help to identify the up by online, post and telephone accounts.
right people to attend courses at the Academy.
During 2006, Bradford & Bingley made a In 2006, we partnered with the World Wildlife conscious decision to bring its increasing Our workforce should reflect the communities Fund for Nature WWF for our childrens savings environmental agenda into the customer in which we live and work, and our accounts.
Entitled Save with the account that arena.
We decided to launch a tree dedication employment practices help us to deliver on really saves we featured the WWF logo and product for our motor, travel and home this goal.
We promote diversity and equality campaign material in our window displays and insurance portfolio.
Whilst not making the across all aspects of working life and we in branch, as well as providing WWF educational products completely CarbonNeutral, each believe it is important to share best practice material to schools.
For every new account tree dedication would offset 0.8 tonnes of CO and success.
We provide the opportunity for 2 opened, 1 was donated to WWF and the and by working with the Carbon Neutral all staff to develop their skills and knowledge customer received a WWF fun pack.
Company we gave our customers the chance and to enjoy fulfilling careers.
Bradford & to dedicate the tree and find out more about Bingley is a member of Employers Forum on We supported the account activity by selling pin becoming CarbonNeutral themselves.
Disability and the Employers Forum on Age.
badges at the counter and also participated in 30,000 trees were planted across the UK as a These organisations amongst others look at WWFs national fundraising campaign, Walk for result of this campaign.
ways to promote awareness of disability, age, Wildlife, by organising our own Bradford & race and gender within the workplace.
Bingley Walk for Wildlife at Flamingo Land Investment guidelines Animal Park, North Yorkshire.
So far, WWF has We primarily lend to individuals rather than Bradford & Bingley recognises that a diverse received 28,000 from this campaign.
businesses and so we do not incorporate workforce gives the company a wider range ethical or environmental criteria over and of experiences and helps us to respond above legal requirements, for example, not better to the needs of our customer base.
lending to bankrupts or not lending on We therefore take our commitment to diversity properties without planning permission or seriously and have a named Board Director, clear legal title.
Robert Dickie, responsible for diversity issues and reporting.
However, we do seek to be a responsible lender and ensure our credit checking identifies individuals who have the ability to repay the loans and not get into repayment difficulties.
Also our mortgage products do not offer loan values based on unreasonable multiples of salary.
Doing the right thing in the workplace Bradford & Bingleys employment practices continue to reflect the human rights standards enshrined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation Conventions, and cover such items as minimum working age, working hours, health and safety and discrimination.
2006 has seen extra investment in training and development across Bradford & Bingley.
In November 2006 we launched the Bradford & Bingley Academy, an in-house training facility to proactively work with people in both career and personal development.
A new Development Manager was recruited and Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 30 30 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Governance Corporate social responsibility continued Women occupy 47% of management roles Bradford & Bingley was awarded the Two Ticks Staff survey results are aggregated 2005: 45% and 35% of senior management symbol by the Employment Service in June 1995. to provide the overall satisfaction score roles 2005: 24% within the Group.
This publicises our commitment to people with presented on page 11.
Using the Two Ticks symbol means individual survey questions, and the results Ethnic minorities occupy 5% of management we are working towards the guidelines in the in the latest survey are set out below.
roles 2005: 5% and 6% of senior Employment Service Code of Good Practice on management roles 2005: 6%.
10% of the the Employment of Disabled People.
Strongly agree Disagree total workforce are from ethnic minorities, a figure that is representative of the UK The symbol is used in our job advertisements Agree Strongly disagree workforce as a whole 2005:10%.
and on our job application form to make it clear to potential applicants with a disability Q.
At Bradford & Bingley there is an Bradford & Bingleys main partner in that we welcome their application on the atmosphere of trust incorporating diversity across the business basis of their abilities and we will interview is Quest for Economic Development QED all applicants with a disability who meet the 10% which is a Bradford based organisation set up minimum criteria for the role.
60% to support the South Asian community within 26% the UK.
However, since its inception in 1990 We carry out staff surveys on an annual basis QED has itself diversified to work with many and the staff survey carried out in September 4% FTSE100 companies and Government 2005 showed that whilst staff were very departments to promote the benefits of satisfied with the co-operation and Q.
Morale is high at Bradford & Bingley diversity within the workplace.
understanding within their immediate teams 6% there was less satisfaction when asked how 52% We are also concerned about the health they felt other departments worked with them.
and wellbeing of our employees, recognising 37% that this is vital to our business.
We have In order to address this we have worked hard 5% comprehensive policies agreed with the on a Culture & Values programme which recognised staff union UBAC on Flexible launched in May 2006.
Q. Im proud to work for Bradford & Bingley Working and Fair Treatment at Work.
We 23% continue to offer the confidential counselling In December we ran the staff survey again 66% service, provided free of charge to employees but in addition to reporting on the Group level and their families, to enable discussion of any results we have taken care to include feedback 10% issue affecting their lives at work or at home.
to managers on their own teams as well.
1% Our Flexible Working Policy is available to all We continue to encourage employees to Q.
In the past year, Bradford & Bingley has staff, not just those with children under six or benefit from the Groups success through changed for the better disabled children under eighteen, which is the share schemes.
Currently, 35% of employees 21% legal requirement.
For Bradford & Bingley, hold at least one Sharesave account 2005: flexible working incorporates a wide variety 39%, enabling them to save to buy Bradford 60% of working practices and can be any working & Bingley shares.
16% pattern other than the normal working pattern.
3% We review our Health & Safety Policy Statement The laws on Age Discrimination changed annually at Board level and the latest update Q. Bradford & Bingley is a good place to work on 1 October 2006 and during the year we was in May 2006.
A full copy was issued to carried out a Group wide training programme every branch and department.
In support of 19% to educate staff about the new legislation.
these objectives Bradford & Bingley recognises 70% Teams from our Human Resources department that all staff must participate in achieving a 10% briefed all senior managers directly.
positive health and safety culture, and as such 1% has clearly identified duties and responsibilities We have reviewed our recruitment across the Group.
Q. I would recommend working at procedures to ensure that age is not a criteria Bradford & Bingley to a friend and to ensure that job advertisements, job Robert Dickie, Group Operations Director, descriptions and interview questions are still is the nominated member of the Board of 19% relevant.
The standard retirement age Directors responsible for Health & Safety and 61% remains at 65 for Bradford & Bingley chairs the Group Health & Safety Committee.
17% employees but we will consider requests from staff to work beyond that age.
3% Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 31 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 31 Top left: Left to right Richard Wixey Bradford Council, Yvonne Fairfax Bradford Council, John Hamilton Bradford & Bingley and Robert Dickie Bradford & Bingley sign the Lead Authority Partnership agreement.
Top right: Adam Sampson, Chief Executive, Shelter and Steven Crawshaw, Group Chief Executive, Bradford & Bingley at the Shelter House of Lords reception.
Doing the right thing in the community During 2006, Bradford & Bingley grew its community programme by 27% to 1,687,011 2005: 1,320,612 as we continued our investment into the communities in which we live and work.
This is the sixth consecutive year we have invested over 1 million and the first time we have invested in excess of 1.5 million.
We believe it is important to have a community programme that is relevant to Bradford & Bingley as a business and so we continue to have preventing and alleviating the causes of homelessness as our main corporate area of support.
However, in 2007 we shall be expanding our corporate aims to Employee involvement and support of include financial literacy as a secondary charities across West Yorkshire corporate area of support.
Each year staff in our head office buildings in In addition, Bradford & Bingley operates Bingley and Crossflatts vote on a staff charity a dedicated Health & Safety Advice Line for Bradford & Bingley also invests heavily in the to support for the year.
For 2006, Manorlands any member of staff to request information West Yorkshire region, specifically in Bradford Hospice, a Sue Ryder Care home in Keighley or advice from the Health & Safety Team.
and the Aire Valley where its Head Office was chosen and staff raised 11,500.
This is accessible by telephone, fax or email.
We support a wider range of community projects in West Yorkshire, The Community Action Team, staff volunteers One of the most significant risks associated including a number of grass roots and from across all functions of the business and with the Groups operations, is the safety community sports projects run by the a representative from the Community Affairs and health risks associated with bank raids.
major professional sports clubs in the area.
team has used funds to specifically support Thankfully these events are rare and have local communities.
They meet monthly to significantly decreased in recent years.
In Supporting our staff is also important to consider requests from local charities and 1998 Bradford & Bingley suffered 38 raids us and so we have two schemes that are community groups and make small grants of and in 2006 we suffered only 6 2005: 3. available to our staff across the country to about 690 on average.
During 2006, 36 support their choice of charities matched charities received funding in the Bingley area.
One of the main reasons for this decrease is the fundraising and matched payroll giving.
Groups ongoing work on improving its security Bradford & Bingley continues to support measures.
The Group is a member of the RaidPreventing and alleviating the causes employee involvement in particular through control Trust, a crime reduction initiative that aims of homelessness supporting their fundraising activities.
to raise security standards in retail premises 2006 was our tenth anniversary of working All employees are able to apply for funds to thereby reducing the potential for robbery and with Shelter, the UKs national campaigning match their own fundraising efforts for charity creating safer working environments.
charity for homeless and badly housed in a scheme which matches the first 250 of people.
Bradford & Bingley supports Shelters funds raised per employee.
During the year One of the challenges in operating a freephone housing advice line which is 106 employees received matching 2005: 85, national branch network is ensuring that integral to their aim of providing the most totalling 23,084 2005: 19,151.
This has health and safety is managed consistently effective and efficient solutions possible for been driven by increased internal promotional across all of our branches.
This is further homeless and badly housed people.
activities, including presentations to all the complicated by the fact that the local authority Groups branch managers.
for each branch is the enforcing authority for Bradford & Bingley is a national member of health and safety legislation rather than any Business Action on Homelessness BAOH.
Bradford & Bingley also matches employee national organisation.
This is a unique partnership between leading donations through the payroll-giving businesses, homelessness agencies and the programme, Give As You Earn and 8.5% In recognition of this, the Group signed a Lead Government which aims to break the vicious of our workforce donate via this scheme Authority Partnership with Bradford District cycle of no job, no home, through helping 2005: 9.6%.
We have seen average monthly Council in September 2006.
The Lead homeless people to find employment and amounts donated rise to 23.84 2005: Authority Partnership Scheme LAPS sets achieve independent living.
Steven 21.20 whilst as a Group, Bradford & Bingley out to raise the standard of health and safety Crawshaw, Bradford & Bingleys Group Chief matched 78,675 of employee donations management in a business by partnering with Executive, sits on the BAOH executive forum.
Governance B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 32 32 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Governance Corporate social responsibility continued Doing the right thing in the environment switched our electricity contract to renewable To demonstrate our commitment to Bradford & Bingley has been committed to energy, thus reducing our ongoing carbon disclosure of our CSR programme, Bradford reducing its environmental impact for a emissions by 70%.
The renewable energy comes & Bingley publishes feedback from the number of years and in previous reports we from a mix of wind, solar and biomass sources Corporate Responsibility Index on our have detailed how eight departments across and, although it comes at a cost premium, it is www.
the Group have become CarbonNeutral.
exempt from the Climate Change Levy thus We continued to work with the Carbon making the switch a sensible financial decision Bradford & Bingley produces a separate Neutral Company in 2006 and are proud to as well as a CSR decision.
CSR Report which is available on our announce that from 1 January 2007 the website, www.
co. uk or on request to whole of the Bradford & Bingley Group We continue to develop our Environmental Key csr@bbg.
Alternatively, please write became CarbonNeutral.
Performance Indicators and Targets and have to CSR Department, Bradford & Bingley, based those indicators on the Reporting 64 New Street, Birmingham B2 4DU to In addition to offsetting our carbon emissions, we Guidelines for UK Business published by the request a printed copy.
have also committed to reducing total carbon Department of Environment, Food & Rural emissions across the business and this year we Affairs 2005.
This is a summary of the full CSR report.
For more details, please refer to the full report which includes a much larger range of key performance indicators than is possible to Analysis of workforce by percentage include in this summary.
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Women overall 66% 65% 65% 61% 68% Women management 47% 45% 44% 36% 33% Ethnic minorities 10% 10% 11% 13% 9% Value of training 3.3m 1.5m 1.6m 7.2m 7.0m Value of training per staff member 1,021 492 501 929 903 Percentage of staff represented by 45% 52% 46% 40% 39% recognised trade union UBAC Percentage of staff participating in 35% 39% 52% 52% 51% Sharesave scheme Community investment 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Total Community Investment Programme 1,687,011 1,320,612 1,295,639 1,024,077 1,207,332 Total Community Investment Programme as a percentage 0.50% 0.43% 0.46% 0.39% 0.51% of pre-tax profit Total Community Investment Programme spend per employee 512 433 406 132 156 Position in the Business in the Community Corporate 52nd 57th--- Responsibility Index Percentage score in the Business in the Community Corporate 89% 84% 69% 58% - Responsibility Index Energy consumption 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Tonnes CO generated 6,640 tonnes 9,081 tonnes 9,190 tonnes 14,021 tonnes 13,405 tonnes 2 Tonnes CO generated per employee 2.06 tonnes 2.98 tonnes 2.88 tonnes 1.81 tonnes 1.73 tonnes 2 3 3 3 3 3 Water usage per employee 12m 14m 14 m 9 m 9 m Position in the Business in the Environment Index 70th 108th 153rd 120th 169th Percentage score in the Business in the Environment Index 87% 77% 62% 61% 34%
