Job: 7583 Closebros AR MID AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: paul o Date: 18 08 2006 Server: Studio II Set-up: paul o First Read Revisions Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Introduction It is the groups policy to give appropriate consideration to Close Brothers recognises that it should take account of the needs of applications for employment from disabled persons.
For the society and the environment, and maintain ethical standards.
The purposes of training, career development and promotion, disabled group categorises its activities underpinning the management of staff, including any who become disabled in the course of their these social, environmental and ethical issues under the four employment, are treated on equal terms with other staff.
The board takes collective responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR and the company secretary Community Support and Charitable Donations is responsible for overseeing implementation and reporting progress Charitable donations made during the year amounted to 147,000 to the board.
The two themes of systems development and 2005: 323,000.
We support the community by providing two types communicating good practice identi ed by the board in last years of charitable donation.
Group companies contribute to recognised CSR statement continue to be a focus for improving the groups CSR charities where significant humanitarian or environmental incidents strategy.
The board has agreed to communicate its CSR policy to all have occurred.
Also staff may have their own charitable fundraising companies in the group and encourage and support the adoption of endeavours matched by the group.
We intend to improve staff key CSR principles, whilst recognising the devolved and independent awareness of this support by communicating it to staff throughout nature of our operating companies.
In addition systems have been the group with the aim of increasing participation.
put in place to collect relevant data which will enable improved measurement of CSR objectives.
The Environment The group has implemented processes to manage environmental The board has also agreed its fide nition of CSR and con rmed its risks so as to lower its greenhouse gas emissions and reduce, reuse key objectives of staff welfare: charitable and community support: and recycle, wherever possible, waste materials.
For example: last respecting the environment: and treating customers fairly.
year we obtained a guarantee from our electricity provider that 100% of the electricity supplied to our largest of ce in London, which Staff Welfare accommodated over 16% of our workforce, was from renewable In recognising that the groups success is largely dependent on sources: we recycle almost 100% of con dential paper waste at this recruiting, retaining, and developing the best financial services of ce: and we encourage other businesses throughout the group to professionals, it has developed the following key principles: recycle paper waste such that 179 tonnes of paper was recycled last year as part of this initiative.
For the second year in a row the group To maintain working conditions for employees and visitors, each was a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project, which encourages business in the group has established procedures appropriate to all businesses to disclose their climate change risks, opportunities their particular activities to monitor, maintain and improve health and and impacts.
Our environmental policy is published on the group safety standards and the working environment.
To combat stress in website.
the workplace staff need support in maintaining a positive work life balance.
Measures to deliver this include ill health protection, four Treating Customers Fairly times salary life insurance cover, time away from work including a The group has always considered that Treating Customers Fairly minimum two week single leave period for all staff as part of holiday TCF is part of its business ethos and ensures its regulated entitlement and health screening including on-site cholesterol and businesses comply with the FSA Principle A Firm must pay due blood pressure screening.
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
We support the FSAs initiative to embed TCF in a business culture and In accordance with our commitment to develop systems to measure we subscribe to the six outcomes of this initiative: key performance indicators for CSR reporting, the group has started Fair treatment of customers is central to the corporate culture.
to collate statistical data on all employees throughout the group, one Products and services designed to meet the needs of and of which highlights that over 30% of Close Brothers staff have been targeted at identi ed consumer groups.
employed by the group for five years or more.
Customers receive clear information before, during and after sales.
Operating divisions are encouraged to develop their own Advice given is suitable.
For example, some businesses held regular Products and services perform acceptably and as rms have led meetings between local management and employees to allow a free customers to expect.
flow of information and ideas and to discuss decisions likely to affect No unreasonable barriers exist to changing product or provider or their interests.
Also staff participate directly in the success of the making a claim or complaint.
business through the groups savings related share options scheme.
All companies of the group have evaluated their procedures, made changes as appropriate and have continued to treat TCF as a core concept.
