How to Invest in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Investment Trusts can be made regularly or by lump sums, and there are low It is the business of investment trusts, advised by their managers, minimum investment amounts.
to invest in the shares of other companies.
The investment Note objectives vary from trust to trust ranging from investment for Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the capital growth and or income to trusts which invest future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause the internationally, in a specific area of the world or in a single value of shares and the income from them to fall as well as rise country market.
Investing in investment trusts can provide a and investors may not get back the amount they originally spread of investments, managed by experts, at low cost.
How to Invest As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts Ordinary Shares purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference between Investors can buy and sell shares in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust the buying and selling prices of the shares, the market makers directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, spread.
accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought directly through The Investment Trust Share Plan, Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any tax Investment Trust ISA and Investment Trust Pension.
relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs Product Details and PEPs, may be changed by future legislation.
Investment Trust Share Plan The Investment Trust Share Plan provides a straightforward way to Keeping you Informed invest in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust.
Investors can make regular The Companys share price appears under the heading Investment monthly payments minimum 100 per month or invest Trusts in the Financial Times, and other national newspapers.
occasional lump sums minimum 250 initially and 50 Investors can also obtain the latest share price by phoning FT thereafter.
Existing shareholders can also transfer their shares into Cityline on 0906 003 1598.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
the Plan and have their dividends reinvested.
There is no charge for buying or holding shares through the Plan other than 0.5% For internet users, detailed data on Edinburgh US Tracker Trust, Government Stamp Duty which is currently payable on all share including price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet purchases.
There is a 10 VAT transaction fee per sale.
is available from the Trusts website www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website Investment Trust ISA www.
The Investment Trust Individual Savings Account ISA is a tax efficient savings vehicle.
There are two types of ISAs available, a For information concerning your shareholding, please contact:: Maxi and a Mini.
A Maxi ISA allows investors to maximise the Registrar amounts placed in stocks and shares.
Investors will have the Computershare Investor Services PLC opportunity to invest up to 7,000 in the tax year 2006 2007 in PO Box 82, The Pavilions Edinburgh US Tracker Trust where they take out a Maxi ISA.
Bridgewater Road The annual management fee is fixed at 24 VAT.
No charges are Bristol BS99 7NH made for buying shares other than Government Stamp Duty on Telephone: 0870 702 0010 share purchases.
There is a 15 VAT transaction fee per sale.
co. uk ISA and PEP transfer facility is also available.
Marketing Information Service The Investment Trust Pension For marketing literature and application forms for Investment The Investment Trust Pension enables investors to save for Trust products, please contact: retirement by investing in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust.
The Telephone: 0800 027 9558 Investment Trust Pension offers a Personal Pension.
com Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 39 How to Invest continued For information on the Share, ISA and PEP Plans please For information on the Pension Plan, please contact: contact: Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration Pension Administrator Block C, Western House Edinburgh Pension Centre Lynchwood Business Park Capita SIP Services Peterborough, PE2 6BP 141 Castle Street Telephone: 0500 00 0040 Salisbury Wiltshire SP1 3TB Telephone: 0800 137 079 The information above has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Edinburgh Fund Managers plc which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
40 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc
