qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Corporate Social Responsibility report I am eager to continue to drive the Groups CSR strategy forward, as it is fundamental to our future success and will further differentiate us in the marketplace.
Philip Moore, Group Chief Executive 40 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 41 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS The Friends Provident Group is more diverse and Material issues international than ever before, and our Corporate Social In 2005 the Group worked with Forum for the Future to identify Responsibility CSR initiatives have evolved to reflect this.
This year we have focused on the six key Each part of the business UK Life & Pensions, International issues most aligned to the needs of our stakeholders.
These are Life & Pensions and Asset Management has its own trust and confidence, responsible investment, financial capability, approach appropriate to their business, underpinned by an community, climate change and our people.
These pages outline overarching strategy from the Friends Provident plc board our approach to each of these issues.
and our statement of business principles.
In 2007 we are engaging with a number of opinion formers The Group aims to be one of the most successful and amongst our stakeholders about our material issues.
We will progressive international financial services groups.
then adapt our strategy accordingly, and further align our Achieving this depends on the trust and support placed in business strategy with our stakeholder needs.
us by our stakeholders: our customers, shareholders, business partners, employees, local communities and Governance society at large.
We recognise that the long-term interests The Group has a well-developed and integrated CSR of our stakeholders are best served by acting in a management system, which includes the following: responsible manner.
Our business continues to live up to the distinct values and reputation that have underpinned it Main Board responsibility since our foundation.
Acting responsibly not only gives us a Group-wide strategic execution competitive advantage, it will also ensure that our business Two CSR managers continues to meet our stakeholder needs in the long term.
Defined roles and responsibilities across the Group Following Keith Satchells retirement, I am delighted to take Performance indicators for all main impact areas over the leadership of our CSR programme.
These pages An objective and target-setting mechanism built into the pick out some of the highlights from this programme in Companys strategic and business planning process 2006.
I am eager to continue to drive the Groups CSR strategy forward, as it is fundamental to our future success An internal communication programme and will further differentiate us in the marketplace.
For a full account of our CSR strategy and performance, Risk please visit www.
com responsibility to CSR risks and opportunities are regularly identified through the view our 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Quarterly reports from each business unit specifically cover CSR-related risks and opportunities, embracing social, ethical and environmental issues.
In compliance with the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment, key CSR-related risks have been assessed and include recruitment and retention of key Philip Moore, Group Chief Executive employees, responsible investing, community relations, financial 19 March 2007 literacy levels, climate change, mis-selling issues and bribery and corruption.
Further information on the Groups investment controls and risk management can be found throughout this publication.
Memberships During 2006 the Group has maintained its inclusion in both the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Indices and was again rated in The Sunday Times Companies that Count based on an annual assessment by the charity Business in the Community.
In addition, F&C is listed separately in FTSE4Good and is a member of the Property Environment Group Index and the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
We are working with a number of CSR expert bodies, such as Forum for the Future,  and Context, to develop our CSR strategy and initiatives.
We are active members of the CSR community and are members of the Corporate Responsibility Group, the London Benchmarking Group and Business in the Community.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 41 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 28 3 07 22:02 Page 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT TRUST AND CONFIDENCE RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT FINANCIAL CAPABILITY 2006 Highlights 2006 Highlights 2006 Highlights Awarded Life Insurer of the Year at the The Groups Stewardship range of Friends Provident Foundation donated British Insurance Awards 2006. ethical funds for retail investors is still over 800,000 in grants for financial UK Life & Pensions supports the the market leader.
Customer Impact Scheme and information please visit Continued support for pfeg, an produced a Caring for Customers www.
com sri educational charity focused on report, available at Winner of best ethical investment providing financial literacy materials www.
com reports provider award from Investment, Life to schools.
UK Life & Pensions and F&C reviewed and Pensions Moneyfacts.
UK Life & Pensions, in conjunction operations to verify alignment with F&C engaged with 640 companies on with Life Academy, created a personal the principles of Treating Customers a range of issues such as climate finance education website for group Fairly TCF.
Treating Customers Fairly Shareholder engagement Save yourself a fortune Friends Provident is committed to F&Cs responsible engagement overlay The Friends Provident Foundation is a providing its customers with the highest reo service uses its influence as a grant-making charity focusing on the right level of service.
TCF is one initiative that shareholder to encourage the companies use of money in society, with helps us to do this.
UK Life & Pensions in which it invests to improve their programmes initially centred on Sales has produced a TCF Toolkit to use corporate social responsibility practices, addressing financial exclusion.
Save with our largest distributors, proactively thereby improving business performance.
yourself a Fortune, run by the Public promoting TCF.
As a responsible insurer, For example, in anticipation of the 2006 Service Broadcasting Trust, is one we engage with our distributors to ensure football World Cup, F&C engaged with initiative that benefited from a grant this our TCF principles are aligned.
We have global sportswear brands, highlighting the year.
The project was designed to trained our sales managers on how to potential risks associated with poor labour encourage a TV audience to save up to apply the toolkit in their relationships standards in their supply chains, and 100 per week by learning how to reduce with our strategic partners to ensure recommended a number of actions the the cost of their everyday household bills.
TCF principles are embedded in our companies could take.
F&C continues to It targeted people through the early distributors selling practices.
This is one monitor this issue.
evening news, inviting viewers to call and example of how we have moved from book a free money saving session plus a discussing products to providing longerCD-ROM to help prevent them getting term business consultancy for our into debt in the future.
Over 11,000 distributors, improving the end result for viewers attended these sessions.
Full details of the Foundation can be found on its website at www.
org 2007 Plans 2007 Plans 2007 Plans F&C to increase engagement on The Foundation to research financial Continue to place the principles of climate change, with focus on exclusion in the UK, enabling it to be TCF at the centre of our activities.
more pro-active in its grant-making.
UK Life & Pensions to do further work F&C to engage regulators and UK Life & Pensions to provide and develop KPIs in response to the emerging markets companies over web-based tools to help customers Customer Impact feedback.
corporate governance standards for manage their finances.
F&C to continue engaging on a range of issues.
For full list please see the Group CSR report at www.
com responsibility 42 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17447 Newfrontend Txt.
qxp 30 3 07 00:17 Page 43 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS CLIMATE CHANGE COMMUNITY INVESTMENT PEOPLE CAPABILITY 2006 Highlights 2006 Highlights 2006 Highlights Selected as a carbon champion by The Group commitment to work towards UK Life & Pensions successfully Times.
giving 1% of pre-tax profit to the reassessed as an Investor in People.
Recycled paper now used across all community, targeting 0.5% in 2007.
UK Life & Pensions attained the UK sites.
Group charitable donations exceeded Business in the Community Rolled out a new recycling and waste 1m in 2006.
system across UK Life & Pensions and Lombard has continued its relationship Group employee absence was 2.95%.
with SOS Villages dEnfant through F&C launched Performance First, Recycled 43% of waste across the corporate donations and employee which includes a cultural change Group.
programme to challenge and motivate employees.
The Carbon Trust FRIENDS in the community FPI recruitment The Group has been working with the FRIENDS in the community, our new Unemployment on the Isle of Man is Carbon Trust to identify more ways it can community investment programme extremely low, meaning recruitment and further reduce the carbon footprint of its launched in December, represents a step retention are key issues for FPIs office on UK offices: the ultimate aspiration is to change in UK Life & Pensions and FPIs the island.
FPI continuously consider new become carbon neutral.
The Groups approach to charitable support, aligning initiatives to encourage people to work premises, IT services, transport policy and company giving with employees for, and stay with, Friends Provident.
working practices have been studied and interests, and encouraging employees to The office provides a subsidised minibus employees awareness of energy help their communities in whichever way service for commuters from Douglas, an efficiency checked.
The programme comprises internet caf for private use, and a gym have been novel but also realistic: three schemes: FRIENDS raise, matching and relaxation area.
The Isle of Man office replacing old boilers with solar panels or employees fundraising up to 500 each was accredited as an Investor In People biomass boilers, upgrading IT systems to year: FRIENDS give, doubling the for the first time in 2006 and there has reduce energy consumption without matching of payroll giving from 10 to been a large reduction in avoidable compromising security, encouraging video 20 each month: and FRIENDS volunteer, turnover down from 20% in 2005 to conferencing and replacing some donating recognition grants of 500 to 14% in 2006. company cars with hybrid vehicles are volunteers for charitable organisations and just a few examples.
co-ordinating team challenge days for employees to give something back to their community.
2007 Plans 2007 Plans 2007 Plans Extend F&Cs charitable donations Implement aspects of the UK Life & Publish a 3-year carbon management policy to include charities of the year Pensions and FPIs people strategy.
programme for UK offices, based and a schools programme.
F&C to extend their Performance First on our work with the Carbon Trust.
UK Life & Pensions to start a programme to include further F&C to offset carbon emissions from numeracy and financial literacy initiatives in 2007. travel.
programme with a Tower Hamlets Lombard to implement a recycling school.
programme as part of its F&C to continue working with the UK environmental management Career Academy.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2006 43
