26 corporate social responsibility Helphire is committed to being a good corporate citizen and has put in place supporting procedures to ensure best practice is followed.
OUR COMPANY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Helphire Group plc is committed to following the best environmental practices in the day-to-day conduct of its business and the management of resources and facilities.
The stance adopted by the Group provides for the promotion of, and understanding of, environmental considerations across the Group.
The Groups Board retains ultimate responsibility for setting and monitoring policy on environmental matters.
The aims of the Groups environmental position include: taking all practical steps to ensure the Groups business activities have the minimum negative impact on the environment: achieving the most economic and careful use of sources of fuel and energy: minimising the production of waste and managing the disposal of necessary waste in a safe manner: and making the maximum practical use of recycling.
Specialist advisors are appointed, as required, to ensure best practice is followed and to ensure potential opportunities to improve performance and compliance with statutory requirements are met.
BUILDINGS AND OUR WORKING ENVIRONMENT We strive to provide a comfortable working environment for our employees in conjunction with our aim of following the best environmental practices.
Our head office site in Bath boasts state-of-the-art work stations, climate control heating and cooling systems, and sensor activated lighting which compensates for ambient light changes.
We have a 95% efficient heating cooling plant, parts of which run on 12V supply for efficiency, and our lighting systems are PIR controlled for occupation detection ensuring minimum energy wastage.
Two of our key sites, Bath and Peterlee recycle all waste paper, cans, plastic drinking cups, ink and toner cartridges and we are looking to extend this to other sites.
OUR FLEET Being a vehicle provider, with a fleet in excess of 10,500 vehicles, our policy is to provide our customers with the safest, most fuel efficient replacement transport.
To achieve this, the average age of our vehicles is now 11 months as newer cars are more efficient and comply with the very latest in safety and emissions legislation.
Wherever possible, new vehicles are selected with ENCAP crash test performance results in mind, supporting our suppliers in their quest to build safer cars.
As diesel vehicles and dual fuel have become more environmentally friendly or greener, new Euro compliant and bi-fuel vehicles have been added to the fleet, currently representing about 25% of our vehicles.
Our existing operations policy of using transporters to deliver vehicles to our customers has been reviewed in light of fuel consumption and effect on the environment.
Consequently we have reduced the transporter fleet by 75%.
Increasing our branch network will ensure delivery distances to customers are reduced, thus the effect on the environment of our business operations will be lessened.
OUR PEOPLE We recognise the contribution of our employees to Helphires performance and profitability and have core values, supported by policies, to maintain and develop good staff relationships.
We are committed to the principle and practice of equal opportunity in employment.
We do not tolerate discrimination, bullying or harassment.
We apply common terms and conditions to both temporary and permanent staff and have policies which are in line with ACAS guidelines and which comply with relevant UK and European Human Rights and employment legislation.
We ensure effective communication with our employees through staff association meetings, monthly publications, twice yearly Director briefings, one-to-one staff manager updates and staff suggestions schemes.
All staff have twice yearly performance appraisals in which objective setting, training and development are integral parts.
We run management development programmes to assist our managers in their roles.
Our sites at Peterlee and Northwich have Investors in People accreditation.
By benchmarking salaries annually using third party data and offering a range of benefits including pension, save as you earn share options for all employees, childcare vouchers, subsidised caf and discounts on sporting facilities goods services, the Group seeks to provide a competitive reward package.
27 corporate social responsibility continued COMMUNITY SUPPORT We believe our business can and should make a positive contribution to the local community.
In addition to our activities to support the environment, we make a number of charitable donations and sponsorships as a Group.
Charitable donations We aim to support local, national and international charity appeals, especially if a staff member is actively involved in fundraising.
In 2005 6 Helphires dress down Friday charity collections, and one-off appeal collections, raised in excess of 10,000.
Staff contributions, regularly matched by the Company were made to 25 charities, including: Breast Cancer Care Charitable Trusts of the United Bristol Hospitals Juvenile Diabetic Trust Red Nose Day RSPCA WaterAid Albany employees based at our Peterlee site have, over the year, supported a number of nominated charities through similar dress down days.
In addition monthly theme fun days help to raise even more funds for these causes, including World Poetry Day in aid of Butterwick Childrens Hospice, St Georges Day celebrations for the Tyne and Wear Autistic Society and Sport Relief Albany Obstacle Course and Pool Competition in support of Sport Relief.
As corporate sponsors of CLIC, our Swift operation in Northwich also run a number of activities during the year including Win a day off work and selling CLIC Awareness Bears to help raise funds.
In 2005 6, Helphire committed to a discretionary charity fund of 5,000 per Executive Board Member, which has over the past year supported a number of staff-driven fundraising activities, including a triathlon challenge in Support of CLIC Sargent and the Paris to London Endurance Charity Bike Ride, in aid of Great Ormond Street Childrens Hospital.
The Helphire annual five-a-side football tournament has also been enabled through this fund.
Held in memory of Andrea Gray, a Helphire colleague who sadly passed away from cancer, the tournament raises funds for Cancer Research UK.
Bath Rugby Community Foundation Helphire and Bath Rugby have teamed up to help steer disadvantaged children away from becoming a risk to society.
The Foundation, which was set up to expand Bath Rugbys community work, is intended to get more children involved in the sport of Rugby.
Helphire has committed to a three-year involvement with the Foundation, which is currently helping children in over 60 local schools.
Sponsorships Our sponsorship strategy is to provide support to local initiatives which create a positive local profile in our key areas of operation.
2005 6 also saw Helphire announce its upgraded commitment to Bath Rugby in becoming main sponsors of the Club.
A new shirt design featuring Helphire branding on the front of Bath Rugbys playing and replica shirts, along with programme advertising as well as the creation of the Helphire Stand formerly East Stand, forms part of the awareness-building campaign.
HEALTH AND SAFETY We recognise that the health and safety of our employees and users of our services are of paramount importance.
We have an established Health and Safety Policy implemented across the business and a Health and Safety committee chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
Health and Safety within the Group has an equal status with all other business objectives and we see the promotion of health and safety as a joint objective between the Group and its employees.
The Health and Safety Policy is based on the belief that accidents can be prevented and it is the Groups objective to provide and maintain a healthy, safe and secure work setting for its employees and visitors.
WORKING WITH SUPPLIERS Currently dealing with over 2,500 suppliers, we operate a supplier selection policy that considers the quality, delivery and warranty elements of proposals as well as cost.
We set service level agreements with our key suppliers, managing performance against agreed standards to ensure we get good service for our customers and operating divisions.
We operate within the spirit of our supplier contracts and strive to conduct our business in a way that promotes long-term relationships.
We will reject any attempt at improper business practice, and our staff will not use their authority for personal gain.
Staff may accept token business gifts only and will not accept hospitality that could lead to them being perceived to favour any supplier.
