indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 22 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 We continue to make an important Corporate social contribution towards minimising uK responsibility greenhouse gas emissions.
over the year generation from our nuclear stations avoided emissions equivalent to removing over half of the cars from the uKs roads.
BE responsible the Company continues to recruit graduates this will build on the established Equal As the largest electricity generator and apprentices in significant numbers, 24 opportunities Focus group and local staff in the uK, British Energy makes and 38 respectively.
this is down on the 31 Equality groups.
a significant contribution to the graduates and 40 apprentices in the previous economy and quality of life through year but overall the Company now employs our second Excellence Awards ceremony the provision of jobs and the safe about 5,600 highly skilled people, compared took place this year.
the awards recognise and reliable operation of our to 5,300 just 18 months ago.
behaviours and activities of employees that move British Energy forward as a successful nuclear power stations.
During the year we continued to invest in business in a way which is consistent with enhancing the skills and competencies of our values.
Candidates were nominated by our Corporate social responsibility report our workforce.
on average, each employee their colleagues in 11 categories.
A crossfor 2004 05 is available on our website devoted 8.5 days to training comparable Company panel then short-listed nominations www.
com and we will publish with the previous years figure.
to three finalists in each category and then the 2005 06 report shortly.
the reports follow recommended winners.
the Business in the Community guidelines and in october 2005 we again undertook a gallup are divided into four topic areas: Marketplace, Q12 survey as a measure of employee Environment Workplace, Environment and Community.
since the previous survey, We continue to make an important contribution key points for 2005 06 are reported below undertaken in May 2004, we have put in place towards minimising uK greenhouse gas against these headings.
over the year generation from survey enabled us to measure the impact of our nuclear stations avoided the emission of Marketplace these programmes across the Company.
Based 40.9 MtCo that would otherwise have been 2 We aim to provide our industrial and commercial on an excellent response rate of 84%, overall emitted had the same output come from fossil customers with high quality information about the there is strong evidence to show that fuel stations.
our coal-fired power station at electricity market on a continuous basis via our the Company has moved forward in all areas Eggborough emitted 6.7 MtCo in 2005 06, 2 website and through events such as our annual of employee engagement.
however, we bringing our net savings to around 34.2 MtCo.
2 talkpower Conference which this year attracted recognise there is still room for improvement to put this in context, the saving is equivalent around 200 energy professionals.
and we have embarked on implementing further to removing over half of the cars from the improvement plans across all business units uKs roads.
the Companys senior management met with with the emphasis on follow up and delivery.
over 500 financial institutions and held two the survey will be repeated in due course.
our nuclear generation also avoided the major investor Day events during the year.
the emission of about 159 kt of sulphur dioxide first event provided investors with a detailed We remain committed to all aspects of equal so and 89 kt of oxides of nitrogen no.
2 x insight into the performance and Asset opportunities, recognising the value of a With Eggborough emitting 21 kt so and 17 kt 2 improvement programmes while the second positive approach to diversity.
Following the of no during the year, our net savings were x event focused on the particular needs of the communication of the results of the Equal 138 kt so and 71 kt of no respectively.
Both events treatment survey, all leaders have included were very well received.
objectives for equal opportunities in their 2005 was the first year of the pilot phase 1 gallup Q12 action plans.
these are being of the Eu Ets.
this operates on a cap and Workplace progressively implemented.
An Equal trade basis and is initially focused on achieving safety and environmental performance are opportunities strategic review group has now reductions in Co emissions.
British Energy was 2 fundamental priorities of the Company.
this group, including Executive allocated 4.54 MtCo for the calander year 2 monitor nuclear, radiological and industrial safety, Committee members, will lead the Company less than the actual station emissions of 7.22 and environmental performance.
A summary of approach and will oversee and maintain the MtCo.
During 2005 06 the carbon price 2 our performance in these areas is contained in implementation throughout the organisation.
established by the scheme rose from about the review of operating performance.
