Minority Equity Investments During the year we held 49% of the share capital of Mykindaplace Limited.
In June 2006, we acquired the remaining share capital of Mykindaplace Limited for cash consideration of 4 million, bringing our total shareholding to 100%.
In September 2005, we disposed of our 35.8% equity interest in Music Choice Europe plc for 1 million.
From September 2003, to March 2005, we held 50% of the share capital of Artsworld Channels Limited.
In March 2005, we acquired the remaining 50% of the share capital of Artsworld Channels Limited for cash consideration of 1 million, bringing our total shareholding to 100%.
In November 2004, we disposed of our 49.5% investment in Granada Sky Broadcasting Limited GSB for 14 million.
In March 2004, we disposed of our 20% interest in QVC UK, operator of QVC The Shopping Channel for 49 million.
In August 2003, we sold our 9.9% equity interest in Chelsea Village plc, the parent company of Chelsea Football Club, for 6 million.
In October 2003, we sold our 9.9% equity interest in Manchester United PLC, with whom together with Granada Media Group Limited we hold an interest in the MUTV Limited joint venture, for 62 million.
Leeds United PLC, the parent company of Leeds United football club, in which we hold a 9.1% stake, went into administration in March 2004.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Group has developed a two-tier Corporate Responsibility governance structure.
At a board and executive level, the CR Steering Group CRSG provides leadership and drives corporate responsibility practices.
The CRSG comprises Senior Executives and two non-executive Board Directors and meets quarterly.
The CRSG is supported by a taskforce of senior operational managers that works to embed responsible business practices throughout the Group.
The management of environmental issues is overseen by two working groups, Energy and Waste, which report to the CRSG.
Other groups are in place to oversee health and safety and human resources policy, and Skys employees can communicate their views on corporate responsibility via the Sky Forum of elected Sky employees.
The Group runs an annual risk workshop on corporate responsibility issues and maintains a corporate responsibility risk register.
The Group also undertakes consultation with stakeholders that assists in corporate responsibility risk identification.
The Group is a member of the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and is included in the Global 100 Most Sustainable Companies index and the Business in the Community Top 100 Companies That Count Index.
The annual Corporate Responsibility Review provides full details of corporate responsibility activities.
This information can also be found on the web at www.
Customers Offering the best choice in entertainment to our customers entertainment that is great quality, great value, flexible and simple to use is central to the Groups customer offering.
The Group has technology to control access including parental control features.
The Group has also implemented its Code of Practice for Interactive Gambling, developed with GamCare, an organisation that promotes responsible gambling.
Accessibility to programming is provided through on-screen subtitling, audio description and signing.
Environment In May 2006, the Group announced it had become the worlds first major media company and one of the first FTSE 100 companies to be CarbonNeutral.
The Group has set targets for reducing its energy consumption, carbon dioxide CO emissions, waste and water consumption.
2 Progress against these targets will be documented in the Groups Corporate Responsibility Review to be published later in the year.
Community investment The Group continues to align its community investment activities to the wider goals of the business and its customers and utilises its brand, platform and technology in community investment.
Current initiatives include Living for Sport: Make a Difference, the staff community involvement scheme: and the three year charity partnership with the Chicken Shed Theatre Company.
PEOPLE Organisation At Sky we aim to offer the best choice in entertainment to our customers entertainment that is great quality, great value, flexible and simple to use.
This relies on our employees, who contribute their ideas, knowledge and skills to help make this happen.
To ensure we keep delivering to our customers we need to attract and retain the very best talent, and help them to deliver to their full potential.
We do this by developing our employee proposition and brand which is distinctive.
It focuses on making Sky a great place to work challenging, innovative and fun.
22 Sky is committed to developing a flexible, motivated and resilient workforce which supports its business goals.
To achieve this, we aim to align the culture, organisational development, recognition and reward to the Groups business strategy and values.
We are also committed to providing a culture of opportunity for our employees.
Our values are embedded in everything we do for our people and are designed to engage our employees.
These values provide clarity on how we achieve our goals and deliver our customer experience.
Sky is a place where everyone can contribute.
We are dedicated to ensuring that no one is subjected to less favourable treatment because of their age, gender, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, race, religious beliefs, marital status or disability.
We value the same diversity within our business as we do in our content and services, and provide a culture of enterprise and opportunity for all.
While we strive to make opportunities equal for all our employees we recognise the particular needs of the disabled community.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Assistance is offered to applicants during the process to accommodate any disabilities.
Those attending for interviews are asked whether any assistance is required, whether that would be in the form of the timing or physical adjustments to the space in which the interview takes place.
All new employees are asked again to identify whether they have any particular needs that should be accommodated in the work place to assist with any potential disabilities.
This information is kept under annual review and staff are asked on an annual basis to self identify any disability which would require adjustments to be made to their workspace.
This is undertaken on a voluntary basis.
In addition, our process for managing absence means early Occupational Health intervention where absences become long term or are frequent.
This enables us to discuss at an early stage with those who may have developed a disability any necessary steps for rehabilitation for return to work, or ongoing adjustments to their workplace on their return.
We believe in equal opportunity for all employees, regardless of race, sex, sexual orientation, age or disability.
We offer a broad range of development opportunities both on and off the job, and development feedback through a Performance Development Review Process.
The average monthly number of full-time equivalent persons employed by the Group during the year was 11,216 2005: 9,958.
Involvement The views of Sky people are important and valuable.
We have a variety of ways in which we encourage the involvement of our people in helping to shape Skys future.
The Sky Forum is an elected group of 70 employees who communicate and represent the views and ideas of all employees, and consult on health and safety.
Issues ranging from the work environment and practices to training and development are discussed at the Forum.
Forum members are also included in focus groups such as Corporate Responsibility, and in department focus groups to improve a range of areas, from products to teamwork.
The Chief Executive Officer, other Senior Executives and other managers regularly attend Forum meetings to talk about Skys strategic priorities.
In March 2006, Sky hosted the second Whats Next?
event for 500 employees, outlining our vision and strategy for growth.
The event was the beginning of a Sky-wide cascade of information and materials about Skys goals and our focus on customers.
In May 2006, we again asked all our employees to share their opinions in a Group-wide People Survey, the results of which will be used to develop plans and initiatives going forward.
We encourage our employees to get involved in the community through the Make a Difference programme.
This includes: Sky Volunteers an opportunity for employees to develop new skills and be paid for up to 16 hours working for a cause they believe in: Sky Givers where employees make a regular donation to charity via payroll, and Sky matches the donation: and Sky Fundraisers where employees undertaking a fundraising activity are given match-funding for their chosen charity.
Reward The Group offers an attractive and competitive reward and benefits package.
This includes the BSkyB Pension Plan, life cover and disability benefits, the Sharesave scheme, a healthcare plan and complimentary Sky for all employees.
Awards under the Management Long Term Incentive Plan share scheme are made to selected employees.
The Sky Choices programme allows employees to make significant tax and National Insurance savings in areas such as childcare payments and a bicycle for travel to work.
The Sky Benefits Extra programme offers negotiated discounts on a variety of products and services for Sky employees.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 23
