Corporate social responsibility ICG is an international business operating in six countries, with investments in a further nine countries.
It employs over 80 people of whom 60 are located at its main office in London and aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
ICG believes that it needs to act in a commercial and professional manner, while at the same time respecting the requirements of the companies and individuals with which it deals.
This includes shareholders, staff, suppliers and the businesses in which it invests.
Offices Although ICG is not a significant contributor to pollution since most of its activities are office based, it is acknowledged that there is some impact that its activities have on the environment.
It is ICGs aim to minimise this impact and to comply with the relevant legislation and regulations placed upon it.
Areas where the company seeks to minimise its environmental impact are in the use of energy sources within its office, the recycling of paper and other waste and the use of recycled paper within its offices.
People ICG recognises that its employees are fundamental to the success of its business.
The company therefore promotes a business environment that is based on meritocracy in which all staff may develop to their full potential, irrespective of their race, gender, marital status, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
The company encourages involvement through a process of employee communications, including briefings held by senior executives.
The companys employee handbook, which will be distributed within the next year, sets out, among other matters, the companys approach to the working environment and group policies for: Recruitment and training Personal development Reward and recognition Equality and diversity Health and safety Environmental protection During the period, all staff received money laundering training in accordance with the legal and regulatory requirements.
Refresher training is to be given at least once every two years.
The company has a whistleblowing policy, which allows staff to raise matters of concern in a confidential manner and for appropriate follow-up action to be taken if required.
No matters were reported during the period under review.
Charity and community During the period, the company instigated a corporate Give As You Earn scheme and also manages a separate scheme for its staff.
The company employs the part-time services of a Community Relations specialist and during the period has involved itself in a number of community projects.
These have included a tree planting scheme in a deprived area of London, a building project at the London City Community Farm and a number of projects with the homeless.
The company believes that it is important for staff to not only give financial support to these projects but also their time and to this end allows each employee to dedicate two days a year to such schemes.
Health and safety The directors are committed to developing and maintaining a management culture that ensures the health, safety and welfare of employees and others while on company premises.
During the period, no reportable accidents or incidents occurred either under UK Health and Safety regulations or similar regulations outside the UK.
Additionally, during the period, the company commissioned a third party Health & Safety review by a firm of experts and have implemented any improvements suggested by them.
Investments The company currently invests in approximately 90 companies throughout Europe and Asia.
The company recognises that the most significant risk to its long-term value and reputation arising from environmental, ethical and social matters arise from its investment business.
Therefore, when making an investment decision on a new company, ICG takes account of social, environmental and ethical issues and aims to invest in companies that respect human rights and comply with industry standards and local regulations.
Part of ICGs due diligence process includes, where appropriate, the production of an environmental report by third party experts.
Although ICG cannot influence the day-to-day operations of the companies in which it invests, wherever possible it seeks to enable senior executives to attend the board meetings of its investee companies, either as an observer or a board member.
Through this attendance, it can try to influence the behaviour of these companies and encourage good corporate governance.
