Corporate Responsibility This is the first time Britvic has commented publicly on Marketplace its role as a corporate citizen, yet the Company has Britvic is committed to providing high quality products that always operated with an underlying awareness of its complement consumer lifestyles and to that end we have made wider responsibilities.
significant changes to our portfolio by introducing an extensive range of no added sugar products.
In helping consumers make As the producer of some of Britains longest standing and the right dietary choices we have adopted the system of trusted brands, quality and integrity are paramount in our Guideline Daily Amount on-pack labelling, as endorsed by the production and business practices.
industry trade association the British Soft Drinks Association.
Environment The first of these packs came off our production lines in November 2006.
We strive to reduce energy and raw material usage to support environmental and financial performance.
Over the past four In recognition of parents and governments desire for young years we have reduced our waste to landfill ratio kg per tonne people to make the healthiest possible choices, several years of product at our production sites by 70 per cent while also ago Britvic removed all advertising from schools and has more accumulating 26,500 tonnes of CO credits from 1999 2004 05.
2 recently withdrawn all television advertising of full sugar products to children.
Community Britvic has continued to foster links with local communities, Supply Chain with schemes available to employees that offer free products All suppliers to Britvic are audited to ensure the highest for charitable events and match funds raised on a personal basis standards of quality.
We have operated and developed quality through our 4 scheme.
systems over many years and maintained ISO accredited systems since the early 1990s.
In addition we have joined the In addition we promote charitable and community activity Supplier Ethical Data Exchange and all our sites are progressing through our brands.
During 2005 6 Britvic brands, particularly towards accreditation by EFSIS to the BRC Global Standard.
Robinsons, have supported grass roots tennis and physical skills development in partnership with the Scouts.
Over the last three The Future years, 600,000 children have benefited from the Fruit Shoot While employees are rightly proud of this track record, the Get Good campaign promoting physical activity.
We also Company, at every level, aspires to achieve much more.
The hosted an award for developing urban artists through Drench.
Board have, therefore, considered and agreed to the adoption Workplace of a Corporate Responsibility Strategy for 2006 7 and beyond.
Employees benefit from a wide range of flexible benefits, For Britvic, Corporate Responsibility will be undertaken through promoted under the award winning My Choice banner.
Family a measured, pragmatic and business-focused programme to friendly policies, sabbaticals and an intranet site promoting underpin profitability while supporting our established ethical and health and well-being are just some of the ways we support environmental credentials.
It will strengthen Britvics corporate our employees.
reputation, deliver value to shareholders, help us minimise our environmental impacts, and help employees further support the communities in which we operate.
This activity will be further developed, and reported on, through the five key work streams outlined above.
Britvic is a good corporate citizen with a reputation that the Board is committed to enhancing for the benefit of all of the Companys stakeholders.
John Gibney Finance Director Reduction in waste to landfill ratio since 2002 We measure kg waste per tonne of product and continue to seek reductions.
70% 20 20 Britvic plc Annual Report 2006 The Really Wild range of juices and juice drinks is the first of Britvics brands to carry GDA labelling.
