CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY For Burberry, corporate social responsibility CSR involves considering those social, environmental and ethical issues that if managed improperly could pose a threat to the Groups assets, reputation and the Burberry brand.
Conversely, good management in these areas, for example the environment, has been proven to have direct financial benefit.
Michael Mahony, the Company Secretary, is responsible for CSR matters and chairs the CSR committee which meets regularly.
In 2005 the CSR committee met three times in order to consider items under the following headings: Supply chain maintaining acceptable labour, environmental and social practices in the Groups supply chain.
Product quality providing products of the appropriate quality commensurate with the Groups position as an international supplier of luxury goods, including the responsible sourcing and marketing of products.
Customer service serving customers, both retail and wholesale, to their complete satisfaction.
Health and safety providing a healthy and safe environment for our employees, contractors and customers.
Working environment providing a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment and retention of the widest possible range of talented staff, and which is a safe and healthy place to work.
Environment improving the Groups environmental performance to reduce environmental impact and to increase operational efficiency.
Community affairs developing strong relationships in our chosen communities in support of our business objectives, by using the Groups unique assets to benefit society.
New members of the CSR committee in 2005 include a dedicated CSR Manager, focused on ethical supply chain issues, the Director of Audit and Risk Assurance and a Quality Assurance and Supply Operations Manager.
The Group continues to draw support from a team of external CSR advisers.
Burberry is included in the FTSE4Good Indices.
The Supply Chain Our approach Good workplace standards, health and safety, fair pay and fair employment conditions together with care for the environment are all elements of a successful and professionally run business.
It is our responsibility to ensure that these expectations are also met in our supply chain, where both good and poor performance has the ability to impact on Burberrys reputation.
We are committed to working in partnership with our suppliers and licensees on these issues, as by achieving these goals together we can make a measurable difference to working conditions in our supply chain.
Management Operational responsibility for this area now rests with a new CSR manager, based in the UK whose remit is focused almost solely on supply chain issues.
Performance in this area is reported into the CSR committee and the relevant divisions.
2005 06 performance In the past year we have refined the way that we approach this area.
We have integrated our approach so that suppliers and licensee businesses are treated identically.
Our assurance activity is based on a risk rating that incorporates factors such as factory location, order value and product type.
The Ethical Trading Policy has been strengthened to encompass the main principles of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Core Conventions.
Ethical standards are being integrated into the quality management framework and the sales purchase order process which will be globally consistent.
A dedicated Ethical Trading Committee has been established consisting of the CSR Manager, the Company Secretary, the Director of Audit and Risk Assurance and the Quality Assurance and Supply Operations Manager.
We have appointed initially on a trial basis, a third-party with a global remit for ethical supply chain auditing.
Training materials are being developed for rolling out the new system to all relevant contacts and stakeholders.
A newly reviewed corrective and preventative action record CAPAR system is being introduced.
Depending upon the non-compliance issues identified, non compliant manufacturers are either terminated or the non-compliances issues are worked through using an action plan and are subject to regular review.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 41 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In 2006 07 we intend to: Employ an additional CSR manager in the Far East, dedicated to working with our suppliers on ethical supply chain issues.
Deliver substantive training both internally and externally in our key locations.
Launch an online resource for suppliers to stay up to date with standards and to self-assess.
To continue working with our appointed auditing partners to improve conditions in high risk areas utilising the new CAPAR system.
Health and Safety Our approach Burberry regards its responsibilities for the health and safety of its employees, workplaces, showrooms and sales areas, in the UK and worldwide, as being of utmost importance.
Staff receive training and instruction in safe working practices, and managers, supervisors and others are provided with appropriate training in their specific responsibilities for health and safety.
We conduct workplace risk assessments and encourage the active involvement of representatives from our workforce through joint inspections and, where appropriate, safety committees.
The health and safety standards we apply are audited annually by external advisers who provide us with detailed reports and recommendations.
This process is reviewed by our Risk and Audit Committee and the response of individual sites carefully monitored.
We engage health and safety advisers to support our business and we employ a Health and Safety manager.
Management In the UK each part of the business is required to produce and implement health and safety action plans and our Group Health and Safety Committee, which is led by our CFO, meets regularly to review health and safety performance.
In the US, Health and Safety is directed by the Human Resources and Loss Prevention departments.
The UK and the US have separate incident and accident reporting systems, the former being based on RIDDOR and the latter on insurance reports.
Data from both of these regions is considered by the Group Health and Safety Committee.
All other regions are obliged to make sure that they comply with relevant local laws and our UK Health and Safety manual is cited as the basis for developing systems and processes.
2005 06 Performance In the UK we audited all of our manufacturing sites as we do every year.
Other sites were also audited as part of a three year rotating schedule.
The audits have shown continual improvement in our Health and Safety performance at our manufacturing sites.
We tested our UK auditing methodology on a European retail site.
We delivered six training courses on health and safety in the UK to 105 attendees.
These included Risk Assessment, Permit to Work, COSHH, IOSH Managing Safely, Manual Handling Assessor, Practical Manual Handling and Display Screen Equipment use.
In 2006 07 we intend to: Extend the UK auditing approach to other European retail sites.
Roll out a new global Health & Safety audit programme.
Work with US insurers to further customise our Health & Safety programme in this region.
The Environment Our approach Burberry respects the environment and the local communities within which it does business.
As far as possible we will minimise our environmental impact.
It is the responsibility of the Burberry Environment Committee to ensure this occurs.
Management Environmental management is conducted through a network of regional operational representatives and co-ordinated by the Environment Committee that meets in the UK on a quarterly basis.
Overall responsibility rests with the Company Secretary with the UK Operations Director having day-to-day responsibility for environmental matters.
42 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Following the successful inclusion of the Spanish operations into the global environmental management system EMS in 2004, Burberry has extended this system to include its activities in the US, a region in which the business has both a wholesale and a retail presence.
This means that US energy and waste figures will be reviewed in line with those of the UK and Spain and that improvement targets apply equally across all of these regions.
2005 06 Performance We diverted 46% more freight from air to sea than in 2004.
We commissioned four third-party environmental reviews on wholesale sites, two in the UK and two in the US.
We held staff environmental awareness days at two of our UK manufacturing sites.
We also made improvements in packaging reuse at our UK distribution centre.
Our retail stores continued to reduce their energy consumption and retail staff are now appraised on their environmental performance.
Most of our stores in the US now have air-economiser systems installed.
In 2006 07 we intend to: Perform environmental reviews of our operations in China and Korea: Extend our EMS to cover our activities in the Far East: Carry out further staff awareness initiatives.
Community Affairs Our approach Burberry undertakes charitable giving globally and regionally in line with policy objectives.
We support activity in the following four areas: education, with emphasis on fashion and textile design programmes: medical research and awareness programmes: humanitarian issues: and the arts.
Our style of giving is both direct in the form of monetary donations or gifts in kind, and indirect whereby giving is facilitated through customer or staff events.
Management Global initiatives are managed by Corporate Marketing: regional initiatives are organised regionally and at store manager level and reported to Corporate Marketing.
2005 06 Performance Direct donations included: Fashion and textiles education Texprint, and Central St Martins College of Art and Design.
Medical research The Samantha Dickson Trust and the National Osteoporosis Society.
Humanitarian issues The American Red Cross and the Happy House charity a Korean charity providing food for children in orphanages.
The Arts The American Ballet Theatre Foundation and Lofficina del Bene an Italian arts trust which produces theatre events for charity.
Fund raising included: Medical research Sales of a specially designed pink trench coat and scarf raised money for a number of breast cancer charities including Breakthrough Breast Cancer and The Singapore Breast Cancer Foundation.
Humanitarian issues Burberry supported a special Fashion for Relief runway show to help victims of Hurricane Katrina.
The Arts Burberry buys tables and tickets at events and places adverts for numerous charitable organisations including The Metropolitan Museum of Art and The New York City Ballet.
In 2006 07 we intend to: Continue to support global and regional charitable initiatives and leverage our brand capabilities in line with our corporate policy.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 43 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The Working Environment Our approach Burberry is committed to providing a working environment that encourages everyone employed by Burberry to contribute to both their own and the Companys success.
Burberrys businesses worldwide operate to the same principles in their treatment of employees.
These principles include: Providing an environment that encourages excellence, innovation and quality customer service.
Providing the climate and resources that will enable all employees to advance on merit as far as their talents and skills will take them, without regard to age, colour, disability, gender, marital status, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, etc.
Providing an environment where an individuals ideas can be considered and acted upon.
Rewarding our employees in accordance with their contribution to the business and its profitability.
Ensuring that if problems arise within the work environment that they can be resolved fairly and equitably.
Management Human resource issues are managed by the head office HR team under the direction of the Human Resources Director.
Regional divisions also have smaller HR functions and some of these regions, such as the US where there is a Vice President of Human Resources have significant local autonomy.
2005 06 Performance Managers attend recruitment and training workshops that reinforced adherence to company policies and our commitment to equal opportunities and anti-discrimination procedures.
We rolled out a new whistle-blowing policy and procedures with a high profile campaign.
We introduced a new employee assistance programme in the UK.
The scheme provides a free and confidential support line for employees and their families offering counselling, medical and legal advice.
We launched a new recruitment website in the US to support our expansion in North America.
In 2006 07 we intend to: Expand our involvement with universities and MBA colleges.
Increase the level of language training across the Company.
Increase the number of inter company transfers for management development purposes.
Customer Service and Product Quality Our approach Burberry aims to win and keep customers with the quality of our products and services, to maintain the exclusivity of Burberrys merchandise and to protect the integrity of Burberrys product ranges and intellectual property.
Management In the UK and Europe our Retail Operations and Customer Service departments monitor and manage customer service, customer trends and product quality using a combination of mystery shopping surveys and customer complaints data.
In the US our Customer Relationship Management team manages a sophisticated CRM system that tracks individual customer spending based on volunteered information, and enables us to offer exceptional individualised service and after sales care.
Burberrys portfolio of registered trademarks is managed by our in-house Intellectual Property IP department with a head office in London and regional IP managers.
The IP department works closely with law enforcement agencies, customs, prosecutors and other state agencies to ensure the detection of counterfeit merchandise and the prosecution of those responsible.
2005 06 Performance: We trialled a new after sales and customer reactivation programme in five US stores.
We extended our UK complaints monitoring system to our European stores.
We introduced a reward system for good performance by stores following our mystery shopping surveys.
44 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In 2006 07 we intend to: Harmonise our US and European complaints reporting.
Introduce a new CRM programme system in the UK.
Investigate the applicability of mystery shopping surveys in the US.
Rollout a CRM Best Customer Retention programme in the US.
Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March CSR Indicators 2006 2005 2004 2003 Suppliers Number of 3rd party audits 50 43 37 24 Health and Safety RIDDORS per 100,000 hours worked 0.26 0.3 0.24 0.33 3rd party H&S audits in the UK 11 14 n a n a Environment UK energy use Mil kWh 27.4 28.1 29.1 30.2 UK energy use kWh 1,000 sales 36.9 39.2 43.2 50.8 Energy use Spain Mil kWh 8.4 9.3 8.8 n a Energy use US retail Mil kWh 8.2 7.7 7.2 n a Energy use Asia and Korea 1.7 1.5 1.6 n a UK packaging use tonnes 883 731 703 718 UK packaging use Kg 1,000 sales 1.2 1.0 1.0 1.2 UK transit packaging tonnes 476 520 525 538 UK transit packaging Kg 1,000 sales 0.64 0.73 0.78 0.91 2 Tonnes of CO offset by switching from air to sea freight 1205 650 650 n a Tonnes of CO2 from UK air travel 1213 n a n a n a Community Indirect donations GBP 169,046 142,999 n a n a Direct donations GBP 314,214 346,423 198,000 166,000 Includes a one off donation of 100,000 to the Tsunami Relief Fund Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 2004 2003 Key figures Average Number of Employees Full-time equivalents 4,651 4,229 3,869 3,657 Turnover m 742.9 715.5 675.8 593.6 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 45
