Kensington Group plc Corporate Social Responsibility Annual report and accounts 2006 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Kensingtons success is built on the trust and reputation of key stakeholders which underpin its clear strategy, market focus and commitment to generating shareholder value.
Kensingtons approach to Corporate Social Responsibility is to ensure that business practices are open and transparent and are based on ethical values and respect for employees, customers, communities and the environment.
Kensingtons business ethos embraces compliance with industry regulations and the Companys values and code of business ethics.
The values and code of business ethics cover both corporate and individual behaviour and are communicated, and available, to all employees at their induction, through the Kensington intranet and ongoing briefings.
Kensington knows that success within the organisation is built on its employees and it values the passion, commitment, teamwork, professionalism, customer focus, accountability and commercialism of its staff.
Kensington employees Employee involvement and communication The Company values employee involvement in the business and seeks to promote it through its employee communication programme.
During 2006 the management teams in each Group business held a number of business presentations and road shows where the business vision, strategy plans and people agenda were explained in detail.
Question and answer time was included to allow individuals to share their views and input to the plans.
Monthly results and achievements are shared with employees to ensure an ongoing focus on business performance and we continue to develop our intranet as the primary channel of communication for staff.
Kensington encourages staff participation through the Voice: a committee comprised of employees from across the business that consults with senior management on key employee issues.
During 2006 the Voice was instrumental in undertaking Kensingtons second employee opinion survey, to which 70% of Kensington employees responded and shared their views on the business.
In summary, the survey confirmed that: 95.3% understand how their work contributes to the achievement of Kensington's goals: 94.8% know what is expected of them in terms of how they should perform in their job: 93.1% enjoy working for Kensington: 92.2% feel that they are part of a good team: and 90.1% understand the Companys vision and direction.
Clear objectives are set for all employees in each Group company and individuals are assessed against these twice a year.
The assessments cover not only how individuals perform against their objectives but also how well they demonstrate the Companys values and key competencies.
The performance reviews drive individual reward and are a key input to career development decisions.
Kensington welcomes employees as shareholders in the business and in 2006 employees were invited to participate in the Employee Sharesave Scheme.
A total of 122 employees across the Group joined the scheme.
Employment policies Kensington aims to be an employer of choice and its employment policies are consistent with this aim.
They are based on industry best practice and comply with all legislative and regulatory requirements.
They are available to employees through the intranet sites of the businesses within the Group and are updated on a regular basis.
In particular, Kensington has robust policies and procedures covering bullying, harassment, discipline and grievances.
Public interest disclosures Kensington is committed to ensuring that any suspicions of malpractice are reported and dealt with appropriately.
As part of that commitment, employees are encouraged to raise any genuine concerns about any aspect of our business.
Kensington recognises that in some cases employees will need to come forward on a confidential basis and it is important that they can do so without fear of reprisal or victimisation.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns in confidence to senior management, compliance, internal audit or the Group Chief Executive.
Equality and diversity As a responsible employer, Kensington is committed to providing an environment where employees are respected, valued, able to contribute to the success of the business and are provided with opportunities to develop to their full potential.
Kensington operates an equal opportunity policy for all aspects of employment and development regardless of race, nationality, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability mental or physical, religious or political beliefs or age.
In practice this means that Kensington is able to operate a meritocracy where individuals are selected and developed on the basis of performance and capability and where individuals talents and experience are put to best use within the business.
Training and development Kensington provides a range of training and development courses to its staff to ensure that they have the knowledge and skills required to carry out their responsibilities and to provide career development.
During 2006 Kensington delivered key training modules to staff through K-People: an e-learning capability available to staff via the intranet.
Courses included anti-money laundering and complaints handling to comply with FSA requirements and Data Protection and information security to support Kensington Mortgages ISO17799 accreditation.
Kensington Group plc Corporate Social Responsibility Annual report and accounts 2006 45 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Health, safety and wellbeing Kensington is committed to providing a safe and healthy working environment for its employees, contractors and visitors.
Kensington manages its office environments to comply with appropriate health and safety legislation and regulations and procedures are in place for annual workplace assessment.
Kensingtons customers It is fundamental to Kensingtons success, and integral to its adherence to the principles of Treating Customers Fairly, that all customers are treated with the highest standards of integrity and that the products and services offered to them are available at a fair and transparent price.
Kensington harnesses state of the art technology to improve efficiency of the application process and uses this in conjunction with experienced underwriters to ensure that customers needs are fully understood and addressed.
Community relations Kensington supports a range of activities across its businesses aimed at developing relations and support for the local community and charitable institutions.
Kensingtons selected charity for 2006 was Macmillan Cancer Support and employees raised money for Macmillan throughout the year with a number of initiatives.
In addition, Kensington supports its employees efforts in raising money for charity through the matched donation scheme.
Employees are encouraged to support their local communities by giving in kind and employees can take up to four hours a month to participate in community activities and projects.
During 2006, Kensington also established strong links with Dee Caffari, the yachtswoman who broke records when she circumnavigated the globe the wrong way.
Kensington sponsors her team, Team Caffari, for its pioneering attitude to sport and achievement, and has supported the team in a charity Race for Life event in Southampton, the Big V Sail from Portsmouth to Cork in July, and a number of adventure races throughout the autumn and winter.
Environmental issues Kensington complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment and responds to the environmental challenge in a number of ways.
These include: Providing facilities for recycling of paper waste and toner cartridges: Ensuring that buildings occupied by the Group are managed efficiently through, for example, use of light controls in unoccupied areas and maintenance of temperature control.
During the year Kensington introduced a scheme to encourage employees to cycle to work and to help them make the most of the Green Transport Plan initiative and associated tax concessions offered by the Chancellor in connection with the purchase of bicycles and cycling equipment.
