Operating and Financial Review Finance Directors Review A commitment to transparency Financial Reporting Overview assessment of the value that has been generated Legal & General, in common with other by the business during a financial year.
European listed life assurers, reports financial In our Operating and Financial Review we information to shareholders under two focus on operating profit on the EEV basis complementary reporting bases.
which we believe provides shareholders with a better understanding of the Groups The primary financial statements, which are performance.
Operating profit reports the found on pages 55 to 116 of this report, are change in embedded value in a financial year, prepared on the International Financial but excludes fluctuations from assumed longer Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
This basis term investment returns.
is the one that all EU listed companies are required to follow.
We believe this gives an The key differences between the EEV and insight into the Companys ability to generate IFRS bases are set out in Figure 14. cash flows to support dividends.
Financial Reporting Developments For companies which write long term insurance Legal & General adopted the IFRS basis of contracts, the emphasis of the IFRS basis on reporting for its primary financial statements movements in a single year gives an incomplete in 2005.
In 2006, the International Accounting assessment of performance as it does not Standards Board IASB announced a period provide information on the value created over of stability in financial reporting.
As a result the life of the contracts.
Legal & General of this, no major new standards, or changes therefore provides supplementary financial to existing standards will become effective statements on pages 117 to 133 which are until 1 January 2009.
Therefore, it is prepared on the European Embedded Value currently anticipated that few significant EEV basis.
Those statements provide an changes will be required to the Groups EEV IFRS EEV seeks to recognise, at the point new IFRS does not recognise, in the year of sale, business is written, the inherent value to profits expected to arise on the contract shareholders of that business over its in future years.
Instead it recognises only entire lifetime.
This is achieved by the profit or loss arising on new business in projecting future shareholder cash ows the year it is written.
Despite IFRS allowing arising from new business using best some acquisition costs to be deferred, estimate assumptions and then most product lines will incur a loss in the discounting those cash ows using an year business is first written, reecting the appropriate risk discount rate.
initial cost and reserving strain of writing long term business.
Key differences between the EEV and IFRS bases EEV profit arising on in-force business Under IFRS, the loss recognised in the first represents the unwind of the risk year of writing new business due to the The total profit arising from a long term discount rate, reecting the fact that typical expense strains in acquiring it will insurance contract over its entire life will be future cash ows projected are one year be offset by the profits emerging in future the same under both the EEV and IFRS bases nearer to realisation, together with the years over the lifetime of the business.
The main difference between impact of actual experience varying the two bases is in respect of the timing of from previous best estimate assumptions profit recognition.
A description of when the used to determine projections.
profits are recognised for each basis is given in the table to the right.
22 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Strength Our business is underpinned by the strength of our nances and our human capital.
This assures customers we will be there when they need us.
Andrew Palmer Group Director Finance... to build a se Partnership with Amicus This year Legal & General celebrates ten years of working in partnership with our Union, Amicus.
Over 35% of our employees are Amicus members, and the Union is represented by three full-time secondees and around 40 part-time reps.
Despite changes at Amicus over the last ten years, partnership working at Legal & General has been remarkably constant.
The Partnership Agreement recognises managements right and duty to manage, and Amicus right to represent its members across a range of issues.
Within a framework of mutual confidence and trust, the Agreement encourages workplace exibility, fairness and equality in the treatment of employees.
This includes transparent pay systems, contractual provisions which encourage equal treatment regardless of background or personal circumstances and access to good vocational training and development.
35% of employees are members of Amicus ecure future Systems Strength Legal & Generals IT Services use over 600 Windows, Unix and mainframe servers to support and deliver over 100 different IT functions: from the customer facing e or internet services through to internal development services.
A 24 7 support infrastructure ensures integrity is maintained at all times.
All Legal & Generals business data is stored on disk and critical business data is mirrored at its disaster recovery site at Hounslow.
Over 700 terabytes of data is stored at both sites.
Market share in life The strength of the Protection business arises from having market leading positions in all the key areas.
We have access to the widest range of distribution and offer the best 20% value products.
Our service is industry leading and our technology continues to deliver even greater benets for advisors.
Our success has led to market leading scale, which in turn enables further investment to improve our business.
Market leaders in our chosen sector
