AS A PUBLICLY LISTED CORPORATE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMPANY AT THE HEART OF THE MOST INTERNATIONAL MARKET IN THE WORLD, INTEGRITY IS CENTRAL TO OUR SUCCESS AND WE ARE PROUD OF THE WAY IN WHICH WE DO BUSINESS Our long-term growth ambitions require the absolute trust of our stakeholders and the best possible performance from our employees.
We always strive for openness and honesty in all our business dealings and treat our customers, shareholders and employees as valued partners in our business.
Our approach continues to give priority to those activities that are of real relevance to our stakeholders and where we consider we can have most impact.
Priorities are therefore: COMMUNITY PROGRAMME We encourage our staff to share their skills, experience and enthusiasm for the benefit of the wider community through active participation in our Community Programme and by rewarding their own charitable fundraising efforts.
The cornerstone of our Community Programme is a partnership approach with a single charity for a two to three year period.
Our current partner charity is Brainwave, a small charity based in Somerset that helps children with developmental delay caused by Cerebral Palsy, genetic disorder or brain injury.
Most of the children that follow a Brainwave programme make real and measurable progress, achieving levels of independence far beyond their families dreams and expectations.
Exchange staff at Brainwave helping to get their sensory garden For the last two years we have worked closely with Brainwave, ready for the Summer in Operation Groundforce helping to develop their profile in the business community and raise much needed funding for their important work.
During this time our corporate financial contribution of 150,000 has been more than doubled by the voluntary efforts of our staff through a myriad of imaginative and profitable fundraising activities.
We are very grateful for the support they have been given by our customers, suppliers, families and friends, which has resulted in a total financial contribution to Brainwave of over 380,000 since the partnership began in April 2004.
One of the highlights of the programme this year was when we divided the company into 10 teams and challenged each to raise enough money to sponsor an adopted child through a Brainwave programme for a year.
The staff response was magnificent, and the 40,000 raised through this initiative exceeded our target figure by 30 per cent.
20 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Additionally our staff matching programme matches funds raised The effectiveness of the communication programme is monitored by staff for any UK registered charity, pound for pound.
During directly through feedback to the company and indirectly through the year we supported 18 charities through our staff matching feedback to our brokers and periodic third party perception audits.
programme and by making community awards to charities in recognition of the time spent by members of staff performing Our financial reporting has always sought to comply with each voluntary work in their own time.
of the requirements we are set.
Additionally, transparency in the detail of what we report continues to be an overriding objective.
In addition, last year we were able to support The National Deaf Childrens Society, YouthNet, and the National Council Regular trading and market data is provided on the company for Voluntary Organisations by giving them the use of our event website.
facilities and in-house catering so they could hold business development events at our new headquarters in Paternoster EMPLOYEES Square, at zero cost.
Employing the best people and providing them with the skills, resources and motivation to be as effective as possible ENVIRONMENT is fundamental to our success.
We aim to create the right We recognise that our activities inevitably have an impact on environment for people to do their best work by: the environment and endeavour to manage this as responsibly as possible.
creating a working environment which enables employees to develop their skills and knowledge: We are committed to a programme of environmental management and continual improvement, considering legislation as only the providing the required resources, in terms of technology, starting point for our environmental objectives.
To facilitate this, information and access to expertise to allow our employees detailed processes are in place to ensure accurate measurement to succeed in their roles: of our environmental performance.
creating a culture which encourages open and honest Our relocation to Paternoster Square enabled us to implement assessment of employee performance and behaviour a number of initiatives designed to reduce consumption of both on a regular basis: energy and water.
For example, we now purchase only green energy.
These initiatives have resulted in CO2 emissions reducing providing the opportunity for employees to share in the success by 88 per cent this financial year.
of the Exchange through bonus arrangements linked to the financial performance of the Exchange and share plans We continue to be awarded the Gold Award each year under the focussed on longer term performance: and Clean City Awards Scheme which recognises good practice to reduce consumption and reuse and recycle where practicable.
enabling our employees to make informed decisions about the effect of a wide range of benefits on their lifestyle, wealth and Our Environmental Policy Statement, which provides a framework financial security: for developing and reviewing environmental objectives can be found on our website at www.
com In addition, we recognise the absolute importance of operating company overview section.
with integrity and openness and strive to ensure this is an integral part of our culture by: GOVERNANCE We remain committed to delivering the highest standards in encouraging a working environment in which employees feel boardroom practice and financial transparency by: comfortable about highlighting wrongdoing: facilitating open and transparent dialogue with our investor promoting an environment of equality of opportunity which is audience: intolerant of discrimination, harassment or victimisation: and maintaining accurate financial records which transparently maintaining healthy and safe working conditions and operating and honestly reflect the financial position of our business: and in an  manner.
striving to meet the expectations of our shareholders by Health and Safety management forms an integral part of our maximising shareholder value and providing competitive returns.
business with legislative compliance monitored by representatives from each business unit.
A full annual audit is completed with Contact is maintained with key audiences, including institutional support from external consultants and advice provided on new and private shareholders and analysts, through a full programme or changing legislation and its impact on our business.
of investor relations activity including regular meetings, periodic presentations and publication of information.
Communication There were no reportable illnesses, dangerous occurrences is conducted in a manner that effectively provides information or liabilities, nor were any health and safety enforcement on Company performance whilst ensuring the protection of price notices received.
sensitive information not already available to all shareholders.
Although the company has been restricted in its normal investor contact programme due to potential offers for the Company, the Exchange nevertheless held over 100 meetings and calls with major UK and overseas investors in the past year.
21 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006
