11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 76 76 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review PartyGaming aims to give between 0.20% and Our values 0.25% of its annual EBITDA to a broad variety of charitable causes.
In 2006 we exceeded this target with total donations totalling $750,080 Community through donations to a number of charities involved principally with helping those with problems relating to gambling, cancer research, children and disaster and famine relief.
With customers located around the world, The recipients of funds in 2006 included: PartyGamings social responsibilities extend far beyond the communities where our offices are Responsibility in Gambling Trust, GamCare and Gordon House based.
We have developed a successful business Water Aid that spans many territories across the globe.
Oxfam East Africa Food Crisis Appeal That success is due in varying degrees to the Cancer Research UK resources and infrastructure provided by both British Heart Foundation local communities as well as society at large British Red Cross Indonesia Earthquake Appeal and we want to put something back not just Body and Soul Families affected by HIV and AIDS because we can, but because we believe it Small Steps for Parents Helping parents whose children suffer is right and because our employees want to with motor and sensory impairment as well.
This isnt just about giving money, although Cherry Trees Respite care for children with learning and developmental disabilities that is what most people immediately think of.
Amber Helping young unemployed people It is about making a contribution to society and that contribution is not just about dollars, In selecting the beneficiaries of monetary and pounds or euros it can take a variety of forms.
other donations, we look to select charities that PartyGamings philosophy is that we aim to are efficient in terms of effective and low cost donate both money and, through employee administration that results in more money going involvement, personal time to worthy causes, to where it is needed rather than being lost in including gaming charities.
In India, our Ivy Comptech subsidiary has set up a charitable body known as the Ivy Foundation with the aim of working in areas outside its business interests and to contribute in its own way to the development of the people of Andhra Pradesh, the state in which it is located.
Through the Foundation, Ivy seeks to support welfare and the general well-being of the general public, to perform the role of a good corporate citizen as well as to discharge the social responsibility of a successful corporate enterprise.
The Ivy Foundation is an autonomous body that will undertake charitable activities in the areas of education, health care, housing, welfare and general well-being of the general public in times of tragedy and emergency.
