11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 74 74 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review Implementation of ISO standards Our values In 2006 PartyGaming began implementing the ISO 14000 series of standards dealing with environmental management.
These standards Environment provide management tools that will enable the Group to monitor and improve its environmental performance.
In particular it is expected that the implementation of these standards will help to As an online company, we believe we have ensure that PartyGaming: a relatively low impact on the environment but recognise that as with any commercial continues to develop and maintains a suitable enterprise, the day-to-day running of our business environmental policy: will inevitably have consequences.
We are establishes a high level environmental fully committed to minimising the effects our management system setting out responsibilities, operations may have on the environment.
authorities, relationships, functions, processes, We aim to review our procedures on a regular practices, procedures and resources: basis to assess the possible impact of our business practices and to determine where improvements identifies the most significant environmental can be made in a cost-effective way.
aspects of PartyGamings past, present and future activities, products and services: PartyGaming complies with and aims to exceed applicable environmental laws, regulations and clarifies and respects all legal and regulatory industry standards in all of the countries in which requirements in relation to the environment: it operates.
sets appropriate environmental objectives and targets: creates and builds on existing processes to ensure that environmental objectives and targets are met: and continually monitors and improves the environmental management system.
Recycling We are committed to the introduction of more recycling programmes throughout our businesses and wherever practicable materials such as paper, computer equipment and printer consumables are already recycled.
11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 75 75 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review Energy consumption With a limited number of office locations and total staff numbers of approximately 1,200 worldwide, the Groups total energy consumption is small when compared with many other global businesses.
However, the Group has taken a number of steps to ensure that this is kept to a minimum wherever possible: air conditioning and other electrical systems are turned off when not required, such as late at night or at weekends: energy efficient light sources are fitted in many of our offices and we are looking at introducing them across all of our facilities: and computers, monitors and other electrical equipment are switched off outside of working hours to avoid wastage.
Travel As an international business with offices in a number of locations, there is a need for employees to travel between offices as well as to other territories as part of our day-to-day business activities.
However, whenever practicable email, video and teleconferencing facilities are used to avoid non-essential air travel.
Staff are encouraged to use public transport where practical and the Group does not have a company car scheme.
During 2007, PartyGaming intends to put in place a number of other travel-related initiatives including: building a carbon footprint for the organisation and developing an action plan to reduce carbon emissions: and assessing the environmental advantages of replacing company-owned vehicles in Gibraltar with energy efficient hybrid models, as and when they become due for renewal.
Suppliers We aim to work with quality suppliers and also to encourage them to adopt a similar approach to our own regarding low impact environmental policies and principles.
