11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 70 70 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review Protecting vulnerable customers is a key element Our values of our strategy and in particular the prevention of underage gaming on our sites.
On all of the Groups real money sites, a player is first asked for Customers and information so as to establish his her identity, including date of birth and address.
Then, using responsible gaming third-party databases, to the extent available, the Group seeks to verify the identity of the player and Providing a safe and secure environment for our confirm that they are old enough to play.
Where a customers to enjoy the game of their choosing player cannot be verified by these means, they is our number one priority.
That said, wherever are asked to provide additional information.
possible we also encourage our players to game responsibly, within their own means and to check As a Group we are continually seeking ways to that they are acting in accordance with local laws improve our existing procedures and controls in or any other laws that may apply to them.
order to promote responsible gaming.
These include: only being able to have one player account so that if later a player is excluded, or chooses to exclude themselves, they cannot re-enter the site, allowing customers to set limits on the amount they deposit within a given period and providing an option to exclude themselves from the site for a predetermined period.
This is in addition to providing links to suitably qualified counselling services for people seeking additional help.
We were pleased that the Groups efforts in this area were again rewarded by the receipt from GamCare in 2006 of another certificate in recognition of the Groups high standards of responsible gaming and player protection.
The Group was assessed and demonstrated high standards in each of the following key areas: age verification: customer led controls for spend and session play: self-exclusion options: reality checks within game screens: social responsibility content and sources of help: and customer service training.
In addition, the Group implemented the Know GamCare certification GamCare is widely Your Limits campaign during 2006 to highlight the recognised as a leading Groups approach to responsible gaming and to authority on the provision encourage players to game responsibly.
The Know of support, advice and counselling to people Your Limits logo now appears on all of the Groups affected by gambling gaming sites.
As well as responsible gaming, the Group also Know Your Limits Introduced in 2006, the seeks to ensure that its sites are safe and secure, Know Your Limits logo with daily checks on the random number seeks to encourage generator by an indepenent third party.
In addition customers to play within their own means.
to numerous protections built into the gaming software and systems architecture, PartyGaming also has a dedicated team of operatives that investigate suspicious player behaviour to ensure fair play on the Groups sites is maintained.
