11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 71 71 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review Over the past 12 months the Group has Our values undergone substantial organisational change following the termination of all real money games to customers in the US.
Having hit a peak of Employees over 2,080 full time employee equivalents in September 2006, by the end of the year this had been reduced to just 1,203 reflecting the loss of the majority of the Groups revenues which The achievement of the Groups objectives is historically had been generated by customers heavily reliant on the timely execution of the based in the US.
This restructuring required Groups business strategies by the Directors, the enormous professionalism from our Human senior management team and the workforce as a Resources team.
Within days of the UIGEA whole.
Developing and implementing appropriate passing, a firm policy and approach to people strategies are critical to ensuring we attract redundancies had been agreed, incorporating and retain talented employees that can adapt the requirements for an appropriate consultation quickly to changes in the business and regulatory process, redundancy and relocation terms, environment.
Attracting and relocating people to as well as outplacement support.
the local area from international markets is always a challenge for any business.
The Group maintains In spite of the dramatic change to the scale and a strong working relationship with the Gibraltarian mix of our workforce, PartyGaming remains a very authorities ensuring we maintain an appropriate cosmopolitan place to work.
As at 31 December balance of overseas as well as local employees in we had a total of 26 different nationalities order to support the local economy.
represented across the Group and approximately 40% of the employees were female.
All employees are issued with a contract of employment.
There is also a Group intranet site which contains all of our people policies and processes.
These outline the way in which we expect our employees to behave, the policies that are relevant to them and the obligations the Company has to each and every one of them.
In addition, the site provides helpful information for new recruits and those relocating to Gibraltar.
As an internet business, ensuring that our staff have all of the technical skills and knowledge that they need to do their jobs, as well as helping them to develop the next generation of products and services, is essential.
Training is an ongoing part of life at PartyGaming and is provided both internally and externally.
For example, our customer service operators in Europe, many of whom are multi-lingual, undergo a rigorous training programme, including classroom sessions as well as on-the-job training before speaking to customers.
We also provide funding for employees personal development, such as learning a new language.
11448 R&A 2006 front 2 27 3 07 14:06 Page 72 72 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2006 Business review The Board recognises that the continued and Our values careful management of our people is critical to the ongoing success of the Group.
As part of this management process, the Group has established Employees a number of people processes and systems to ensure that issues surrounding succession planning and talent management, learning and development, rewards, health and safety, PartyGaming operates in a highly competitive and performance management and whistle-blowing dynamic international market and a key business are all monitored and controlled.
For example, need is to recruit and retain high calibre individuals during 2006 the Company introduced a change who can continue to drive the future growth and in the performance management process performance of what is a highly entrepreneurial to ensure closer alignment between the business.
The enactment of the UIGEA had a organisations business objectives and those of significant impact on the overall value of our individual employees.
This change fed through employees total remuneration.
Share ownership to influence the structure of employee bonus by all employees is a key element of our payments in 2006 and will continue to be a priority remuneration policy and as such employees have for the business in 2007. witnessed a near 80% reduction in the value of their holdings.
In response it was essential to put During the coming year, the Group will introduce in place an appropriate long-term incentive plan.
a new system for managing the Groups human resources that, among other things, will enable the Having completed a detailed review of the measurement and tracking of key people metrics.
Groups long-term incentive arrangements during This data will provide the final link in ensuring 2006, two new Share Option Plans have been PartyGaming has a robust people strategy proposed to reward all employees across the that is fully embedded within the core business organisation.
Designed by external consultants strategy and can be effectively measured to and agreed with the Remuneration Committee, demonstrate the value of effective Human the plans aim to ensure that those individuals that Capital Management.
are critical to the ongoing success of the business are suitably incentivised over the medium-term with rewards geared to strong share price performance, thereby aligning the interests of shareholders and employees.
Diversity As at 31 December 2006 the Group had employees from 26 different nations and remains a highly cosmopolitan working environment.
