COrPOrATe reSPONSiBiLiTy Corporate Responsibility What Does it Mean to Cairn?
OUR 2006 HIGHLIGHTS For Cairn, 2006 was a year of transformation.
while this transformation presented many business challenges we have UPDA tED GROUP CR POLICIEs AND GUIDING remained committed to our vision of corporate responsibility PRINCIPLEs IssUED Cr, encapsulated in the 3rs respect, relationships and RA jAstHAN COMMUNItY DEVELOPMENt INItIAtIVEs responsibility.
PROGREssING WItH IFC sUPPORt respect People are Cairns key asset and the attitude s I O 14001 CERtIFICAtION MAINtAINED At ALL PRODUCING sItEs of the Cairn team is critical to our business culture.
Cairns entrepreneurial spirit is underpinned by a depth of knowledge and a strong set of cultural core values including integrity, social and environmental responsibility, team work and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and developing alliances with key partners.
The restructuring of the Group in 2006 presented many challenges for the Cairn team and the successful outcome is testament to this spirit.
relationships These are key to developing any business and Cairns success in South Asia over more than a decade would not have been possible without the consistent support of all stakeholders, from governments, regulators and JV partners, to the people living near to our sites in rajasthan and our other operational bases in the region.
The establishment of the Cairn india Board, with highly experienced non-executive and executive directors, should enable further strengthening of local relationships that support business development in india.
responsibility Cairn is operating in many areas that face economic, social and environmental challenges.
we have a A CAIRN WELL sItE IN RAjAstHAN 2 years WORkING WItH tRANsPORtAtION CONtRACtORs IN RAjAstHAN tO IMPROVE DRIVING stANDARDs 8 years WItHOUt AN LtI ACHIEVED bY OUR sANGU OPERAtIONs tEAM 970,000 OF sOCIAL INVEstMENt IN 2006 UP 60% 24 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 responsibility to understand these Cr challenges, identify the mangala development and this risk is being mitigated through potential impact of our activities and through engaging with detailed engineering design and through the targeting of stakeholders, look for opportunities for mutual benefit.
community development funding to damaged infrastructure.
Demands for local employment opportunities and community Key Cr Challenges development are being addressed through implementation As an oil and gas exploration and production company with of an employment strategy targeted at local peoples and the current operations concentrated in South Asia, Cairn is, by establishment of an enterprise Centre, with the support of the virtue of the nature of its business and the countries in which international Finance Corporation iFC, the purpose of which it operates, subject to a variety of Cr challenges and risks in is to facilitate capacity building of local enterprises.
we recognise that applying our Cr Guiding Principles in all activities is essential in maintaining within Cairn indias producing fields the key Cr challenges our licence to operate and business reputation.
Cr risks are protecting peoples health and safety, minimising occur when any part of the business fails to implement these environmental impacts and maintaining positive relations Cr Guiding Principles and can affect the Groups ability to with local communities.
each of our production sites have deliver business performance, for example developing oil well developed safety and iSO 14001 certified environmental and gas fields on time and within budget.
management systems, and community engagement and development programmes.
Our key Cr challenges and approach to dealing with them are more fully discussed in the Corporate responsibility in Bangladesh, key Cr risks include maintaining the security report 2006 and are summarised here.
of our personnel and minimising the potential safety and environmental risks associated with our Sangu facilities, Cairn indias key Cr risks are in rajasthan where the mangala the offshore drilling campaign and during seismic operations development faces challenges on water resource use, the land in Blocks 5 and 10. acquisition process and managing community expectations for employment and local development.
These risks are being in Nepal, the political and security situation has been mitigated by regular engagement and dialogue with key local extremely sensitive in 2006 and as a consequence there stakeholders, strict adherence to well established processes have been no activities on the ground.
if operations do and targeting of community development funding towards recommence, we will complete an environmental and social project affected peoples.
The flooding in August 2006 also impact assessment eSiA prior to the commencement of highlighted the potential impact of natural disasters on the seismic operations.
A CAIRN WELL sItE IN RAjAstHAN CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 25 COrPOrATe reSPONSiBiLiTy CONTiNUeD Our Approach to managing Cr risk management Cr has long been an essential part of the way we do Business risks, including Cr risks, are managed through business.
Cairn has an integrated internal control and implementation of our risk management strategy.
assurance framework in place that is overseen by the Board.
The risk management organisation and processes have This is described in more detail in the Corporate Governance been in place throughout 2006 and have regularly and Statement on pages 41 to 51. systematically identified, analysed, assessed and treated the business risks faced at the asset, country and Group while ultimate responsibility for Cr performance lies with levels.
See also the risk Factors section on pages 37 to 40. the Board, management responsibility and accountability has been delegated to specific executive directors.
Dr mike watts is the director responsible for health, safety, environment, managing Stakeholder expectations community and human rights: Jann Brown is the director Our success has only been possible through building effective responsible for employee matters and malcolm Thoms is external relationships and partnerships that can drive the the director responsible for security issues.
Through working with National and State are supported by Group functional managers with expertise Governments and our JV partners over the years, we have in each of the areas covered by Cr.
developed an in-depth understanding of the regulatory environment in our areas of operation and, more importantly, The Board are provided with regular updates on Cr matters have laid the foundation for strong relationships.
A Group Cr Committee, comprising both executive directors and Group functional managers has also it is vital to building these relationships that we also been in place since 2003 and meets regularly to inform the understand the needs and aspirations of the people living in Board and management on strategic direction, oversight the vicinity of our operations, appreciate issues raised by and setting of policies on Cr matters within the Group.
authorities and are able to talk and listen to other concerned The potential impact of Cr risks and the progress of our parties and create value for our shareholders.
Cr programmes are also reviewed on a regular basis by the Group Cr Committee.
A Group Public Consultation and Disclosure Plan PCDP has been developed which provides a framework for developing stakeholder engagement plans for informing and consulting Cr Policies and Guiding Principles with those peoples affected by our investment projects.
we have had Group Health, Safety and environment HSe, Security and CSr Policies in place since 2002.
Following a working with our Suppliers and Contractors review of biodiversity management practices, we issued an in conducting our business activities we are committed to updated HSe policy in 2006 that confirms a commitment to behaving with honesty and integrity, and seek to treat our no net loss and management processes have been suppliers and contractors with fairness and encourage developed to support this new policy.
them to work to our standards.
Our Group Cr Guiding Principles describe our fundamental Our suppliers and contractors come from both local and values, identify the international standards which underpin international companies and we aim to build relationships with our performance aspirations in our operations, and explain them to influence them towards achieving Cr performance our approach to managing all aspects of Cr in our business consistent with our Group Cr policies and Guiding Principles.
The Group Cr Policies and Guiding Principles are available on our website.
in 2006, Cairn energy agreed a new $1bn loan facility with 14 international banks, including the iFC, to help finance ongoing exploration, appraisal and development plans across the Group.
$850m of this facility have now been transferred to Cairn india to fund the rajasthan development.
As part of the loan facility with the iFC, Cairn agreed that, in addition to complying with our policies, local laws and regulations, we would also strive to conduct activities in accordance with the iFCs policies and in cognisance of the iFCs best practice guidance and performance standards.
These commitments were reflected in the amendment to the Group Cr Guiding Principles issued in June 2006.
During 2006 we also developed a new Group Cr management System framework that describes and provides guidance to the business on management of the wide arena of issues covered under the Cr umbrella at the different stages in the life cycle.
This new system will be rolled out across the business during 2007.
26 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 RESPECT, RELATIONSHIPS, RESPONSIBILITY.
COrPOrATe reSPONSiBiLiTy CONTiNUeD sEIsMIC OPERAtIONs IN bANGLADEsH working with our investors Our operations are located in developing countries and the we look to engage proactively with our investors and financial Kyoto Protocol provides these countries with the opportunity agencies on our approach to Cr and respond to specific and incentive to control the growth of emissions through the investor queries when they arise.
examples during 2006 Clean Development mechanism CDm.
we have therefore include participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project report been exploring the application of the CDm to our mangala and the FTSe4GOOD climate change survey.
Cairn is a Development in rajasthan.
member of FTSe4GOOD and, during 2007, we will explore ways of addressing the recently revised climate change revenue Transparency criteria that have recently been included.
An important benefit of our activities is the revenue that flows to governments in the form of taxes and royalties.
Cairn also hosted trips during 2006 for analysts, investors and The extractive industries Transparency initiative eiTi is a the international media to see some of Cairns assets in india.
UK Government sponsored initiative aimed at promoting transparent reporting of these revenues by governments in Business ethics the mineral resource extraction sector.
A partnership between Cairn employs staff who come from a number of countries industry, governments and other stakeholders is critical to the and cultures bringing with them different personal values.
The governments of the countries in However, our stakeholders expect consistency in the way we which Cairn operate have not signed up to the eiTi, however, work.
Our Group Cr Guiding Principles and Group Code of as Cairn supports the principles of the eiTi, we have included Business ethics provide guidance to employees on relations for the second year, the figures for tax and royalty payments and dealings with third parties and public interest disclosures.
in our Corporate responsibility report 2006.
An updated Group Code was developed in 2006 and will be rolled out across the Group during 2007.
Performance monitoring and reporting we measure our Cr performance using a number of Key Climate Change Performance indicators KPis some of which are presented we recognise that climate change is an important in the graphs on these pages, and are presented more fully international issue.
As part of our climate change strategy, in the Corporate responsibility report 2006. we have been monitoring and setting targets for both methane and greenhouse gas GHG emissions since 2000 external Assurance and have implemented several initiatives to reduce these external assurance over our Cr approach and performance emissions, including the installation of high efficiency flares, is achieved both through reviews by independent external additional compression and improving plant operations to parties and through benchmarking with other UK and minimise volumes of gas flared during plant upsets.
implementation of our Cr policies in our operations has been assessed by iFC, as part of the due diligence process associated with the financing negotiations.
environmental resource management erm has also verified the contents of the Corporate responsibility report 2006.
28 28 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPOR CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 T AND ACCOUNTS 2006 2006 Cr Performance sCHOOL CHILDREN NEAR RAVVA There were a number of notable Cr achievements during 2006, in particular the efforts of staff in both our CB OS-2 and rajasthan operations during flooding in Gujarat and rajasthan in August.
in CB OS-2 we continued to supply gas to our customers from our processing facility despite being surrounded by high floodwaters, while in rajasthan our efforts in the relief operations, and subsequent support, showed our continuing commitment to the communities in which we operate.
in rajasthan we made significant progress during 2006 in acquiring the land, establishing community development projects and gaining the regulatory approvals required for construction to commence on the mangala development project.
Plans for the establishment with iFC support of an enterprise Centre in Barmer are progressing well.
Other community initiatives in rajasthan include a rural dairy project, construction of further water harvesting structures and support for schools in the region.
Our commitment to Cr and good environmental and social performance Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate has led to the iFC playing a key role in the implementation of community initiatives in rajasthan.
Lost Time injury LTi per one million man-hours 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 Particular emphasis was placed in 2006 on the ongoing programme of human rights awareness training and the utilisation of the rights aware approach in determining strategies for dealing with such issues as water usage in rajasthan and meeting our human rights obligations when using security forces in Bihar.
Cairn Lost time Injury Frequency Rate LtIFR Total social investment increased by 60% to 970,000 in 2006.
This includes donations of 207,000 to disaster relief following OGP LtIFR the flooding in rajasthan and Gujarat.
social Investment At an operating level there were a number of notable achievements during 2006.
Sangu operations in Bangladesh 000 sterling recorded eight years without a lost time injury LTi and the 0 250 500 750 1,000 overall LTi frequency rate of 0.6 per million man-hours, while slightly higher than in 2005, is still well ahead of the industry average.
The ravva and Suvali sites are also making good progress in implementing the DuPont Safety Training Observation Programme STOP.
Community Development social Investment Expenditure There was a mixed performance against our environmental Disaster Relief Donations objectives and targets.
All of our producing sites have maintained their iSO 14001 certification during 2006. we also met our target for oil in water: however, our methane GHG Emissions and GHG targets were missed due to unscheduled activities at our producing sites.
Nevertheless, our environmental Tonnes CO2e 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon performance remains well above the industry averages, 0 50 100 150 as reported by the OGP.
when operating in remote locations such as the Thar Desert in rajasthan there are health and safety challenges.
Although not a direct result of our activities, there were two fatalities, both contractors, which fell within our sphere of influence during 2006.
Cairn has subsequently conducted Cairn GHG emissions equity share per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced investigations to determine the lessons learnt and has OGP GHG benchmark per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced implemented recommendations with the aim of preventing any further fatalities.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPOR CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 T AND ACCOUNTS 2006 29 29
