Caring about people as well as profits Working together Sibanye working together An enthusiastic assistant showing some of the crafts sold at Sibanye Economic Empowerment shop in Khayelitsha.
Sibanye Economic Empowerment is a coalition of non-governmental and community-based organisations located in Khayelitsha, promoting crafts made by HIV-positive people and affected communities in the area.
These organisations all have an income-generating component in order to contribute toward their sustainable development Old Mutual plc Old Mutual plc Annual R Annual Repor eport and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 70 70 Corporate citizenship South Africa During 2006, our social investment Old Mutual South Africa OMSA programmes operated principally in the OMSA is committed to growing and investing in socially responsible business activities, employment equity and diversity, skills countries where our businesses are development and affirmative procurement, as well as sustainable social investment projects and the active involvement of employees located, working with selected charities in social and community affairs.
Its Corporate Citizenship programme and other organisations to benefit recognises the value of non-financial performance and social accountability.
causes supported by the Group.
These The Old Mutual South Africa Foundation the Foundation is the included education, health and welfare, primary source of funds for OMSAs social investment programme.
local economic development, the At the year end, the assets of the Foundation were worth approximately R314 million, including approximately 14.5 million environment and the arts.
In South shares in Old Mutual plc.
Africa particular attention was paid to The Foundation has three major flagship initiatives, the Rural Economic Development Initiative REDI, the AIDS Orphans Black Economic Empowerment BEE Programme and the Staff Volunteer Programme.
These programmes and HIV AIDS.
The Financial Sector have continued to offer help to local communities, to vulnerable children and to OMSA staff who wish to participate in voluntary Charter FSC targets relating to BEE activities.
In 2006, the Foundation spent nearly R25 million on its corporate social investment programmes, out of which R9 million and transformation continued to be met was allocated to these three flagship projects.
and exceeded in many areas by the Alongside these flagship projects, R6 million was spent on general Groups local businesses.
donations and R7 million provided to three newer initiatives, Product 2 Market, Out of the Box and the Small Farming Programme.
General donations were made to education and community programmes and ad hoc donations provided support for local schools and arts and culture programmes.
Funding was also channelled to groups offering training and support for the improvement of teaching skills and the provision of resources.
In all, R2.5 million was allocated to 43 education projects.
REDI: 2006 was the final year of a six-year plan to support REDI.
Over 250 businesses have received financial support, out of which almost 60% are owned by women.
New loans in 2006 totalled R1 million.
There have been many successes, including the Mont Ayliff Development Agency, which helped three emerging contractors to secure local government contracts valued at R1.5 million.
A number of orphan care programmes have also been established during the six-year life of the programme.
In future these orphans will be supported through the vulnerable childrens programme, and the craft producers and smallscale framers will be encouraged to participate in other programmes run by the Foundation.
AIDS Orphans Programme: Old Mutual has adopted a four-pronged strategy to address the social and economic challenges caused by the HIV AIDS epidemic in South Africa.
This strategy covers the workplace employees, the broader community, financial services and advice customers, and business impacts.
The Foundation has worked with a number of organisations in this area, including Heartbeat, NOAH and Helping Hands.
The Foundations AIDS Orphans Programme co-sponsored NOAHs annual fund-raising event in 2006, which raised R750,000 to support two arks in KwaZulu-Natal.
The projects between them currently support over 900 children and the number continues to grow.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 71 Caring about people as well as profits Corporate citizenship continued Heartbeat and the Foundation jointly support two learning centres.
BEE: OMSA is committed to broad-based empowerment and to being Support from the Foundation allows Heartbeat to work on a rated an A performer as measured by the FSC.
Initiatives continue to community-based orphan and vulnerable children care model, which be implemented to develop staff, particularly in the area of black supports over 1,300 orphans.
The learning centres create materials management and leadership, and to ensure that black staff are aligned with the Health and Welfare SETA unit standards, which are supported in their roles as leaders in the Group.
Other objectives of used in the centres to train and mentor staff and careworkers.
these initiatives are to contribute to the building of a strong and stable society and democracy through sound infrastructural investments, to Overall, the Foundation supports more than 5,000 orphans on facilitate the entry of black entrepreneurs into corporate South Africa a daily basis.
through structuring and investing in BEE deals, and to make direct investments into communities and society at large.
Staff Volunteer Programme: The Staff Volunteer Programme consists of the Staff Community Builder Programme, Adopt an Orphan and OMSA has a good track record in each of these areas, having already the Staff Charity Fund.
set the industry benchmark in infrastructural investment, corporate social investment, staff development and training, and the creation During 2006, 114 projects were approved by the Staff Community of a diverse workplace.
Builder Programme, resulting in over R1.9 million being allocated to the community.
The black business partners introduced to the Company as a result of the empowerment transactions entered into with the Brimstone Fourteen organisations were supported through the Staff Charity Fund and WIPHOLD consortia during 2005 have had a marked impact this year, with a total of nearly R300,000 being distributed to causes on the overall transformation strategies of OMSA.
These partners have such as abused children, HIV AIDS charities, the elderly and animal played a key advisory role in diverse areas such as small and medium welfare groups.
company development, skills development, stakeholder relations, and product development.
All parties remain committed to the Care and Share Week was supported again during 2006 and The performance contracts entered into as part of those transactions and Greater Good SA Trust has been engaged to assist the Foundation in these should continue to position OMSA as a leading proponent of identifying projects with which staff members can become involved.
transformation within the South African context.
The Adopt an Orphan programme encourages staff to commit Further information on OMSAs BEE programmes and their alignment a regular amount of R50 per month matched Rand for Rand by to the FSC will be contained in OMSAs Corporate Citizenship Report the Foundation towards the care and support of vulnerable children.
for 2006, which is expected to be available on the Companys The Foundations partner organisation, Heartbeat, manages the website, www.
It will also be administration of funds towards the nearly 800 children in the obtainable upon request from the Public Affairs Manager, Old Mutual programme.
The funding supports their educational and welfare needs.
Box 66, Cape Town 8000 and from the Corporate Social Responsibility Manager, Old Mutual plc, 5th Floor, Old Mutual New initiatives during 2006: Under the Product 2 Market initiative, Place, 2 Lambeth Hill, London EC4V 4GG.
exhibition pieces made by twenty master craftsmen during their six weeks training are now exhibited at Spier Vineyards exhibition room.
Nedbank Group The Corporate Gift Warehouse, another component of Product 2 Nedbank Group Nedbank contributed over R42m to community Market, was launched at the start of 2007.
This warehouse, situated projects during 2006.
These were carried out mainly through the in Cape Town, aims to become a sustainable market for producers Nedbank Foundation, which spent R30.2 million to support over of craft and decorative items.
200 projects in the areas of welfare, community development, economic development, heritage, arts and culture, and education, The Out of the Box Environmental Education Programme has with the largest contribution going to the last of these.
The Nedbank 120 participating schools in four provinces, Eastern Cape, Gauteng, Foundations contribution was double the level required by the FSC.
There are over 1,000 teachers involved in the programme, with some 40,000 students under their Nedbank aims to help meet the challenge of giving all South African care.
Four service providers have assisted the Foundation in delivering children a good education.
Through its focus on rural school the programme to schools, ECO Schools, the Maths Centre, the development, the Nedbank Foundation has made significant Primary Science Programme and the Schools Development Unit.
investments to provide better learning facilities for some of the countrys In total more than 1,000 kits have been distributed to participating most needy communities.
The organisation has been involved in schools.
early-childhood development initiatives, building and refurbishing crches, and providing learning tools for pre-schools.
In addition, the Several small-scale farming projects were set up during 2006 in Foundation invests heavily to provide decent learning environments partnership with the Organic Farms Group in KwaZulu-Natal, for children through its extensive school refurbishment and classroom Limpopo, Western Cape, Gauteng and Free State.
Numerous training donation programme, including through the upgrading of the buildings programmes were undertaken and good relationships built with and construction of additional classrooms at existing schools in various Government Departments.
Among these activities were rural areas.
It has also constructed new schools in collaboration with courses on growing organic crops commercially, which have been provincial education departments.
To date the Foundation has invested attended by nearly 700 farmers.
over R7 million in such initiatives.
Nedbank is an important sponsor of Readathon, a reading and literacy inspiration project run by READ.
Another project that has received support in this area is the Sparrow Educational Trust, which was founded in 1990 to provide accessible, specialised education to disadvantaged people with learning difficulties.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 72 HIV AIDS: Nedbanks health strategy focuses on prevention of Nedbank has had a long association with sport for the disabled, the HIV AIDS among the uninfected and on positive living for those who highlight being the annual Nedbank Championships for the Physically are infected.
Prevention involves educational work, while the positive Disabled.
These Championships support Nedbanks continuing living programme aims to extend life expectancy and the quality of life sponsorship of the South African Paralympic team, which will of those living with the virus.
The group helps children who have been compete in Beijing in 2008.
Additional support is provided through left vulnerable by the pandemic, as well as those living with the sponsorship of the technical excellence programme aimed at disease, and employees are encouraged to become personally involved improving and sustaining the skills of officials.
Nedbank was delighted in HIV AIDS projects.
that a group of disabled golfers was able to attend the highlight of the local golfing calendar, the annual Nedbank Group Golf Challenge Nedbank is continuing to work with the Department of Housing and held at Sun City.
R1 million was raised for sports development at the Social Development to establish 75 home-based care facilities to Sports Trust Challenge played immediately after the main event.
The group has undertaken to provide the Department with a number of properties in possession at nominal The Nedbank Green, Sport, Arts and Childrens Affinities continued cost.
The proceeds will go to an endowment fund, owned and to operate during 2006.
These operate in conjunction with affinity administered by nonprofit organisations.
bank accounts opened and operated by Nedbanks customers, with donations by the Company based on the levels of usage of these The group is also involved in the fight against HIV AIDS through accounts.
Together they have donated nearly R100 million to donations to the Johannesburg Child Welfare Society, Lerator Love environmental, sports, art and childrens projects since they began.
Home, Cotlands Baby Sanctuary, Jan Hofmeyr Emdeni Childrens Home, Hospice in Soweto, McCord Hospital and Sparrow Ministries.
The Green Trust focuses on community-based conservation and The Nedbank Foundation is the corporate sponsor of the KwaMashuoperates in conjunction with WWF-SAs Conservation Division.
The based Ramakrisma Centre, which takes care of terminally ill women Trust has funded over 140 major conservation projects, including the and children suffering from HIV AIDS.
Southern African Sustainable Seafood Initiative, which aims to conserve over-exploited seafood species and the Wild Dog Project, Through its economic development work, the Nedbank Foundation a three-year project in KwaZulu-Natal to track the movement patterns directly addresses another important South African national priority, of wild dogs.
job generation, by helping people to improve their skills.
Women and out-of-school young are a particular focus of the programme.
Skills The Sports Trust donated over R800,000 during 2006 to support development involves technical training in useful artisan trades and around 35 projects, including the N&A Sports Academy, which certification for competence.
It is involved in job generation and distributes sport equipment to schools in areas such as Nyanga, enterprise development by providing temporary funding and seed Gugulethu and Crossroads.
capital towards equipment, tools, assets of trade and premises of small and micro enterprises.
Nedbank also supports the ICT Donations from the Nedbank Arts & Culture Trust exceeded R850,000.
Programme, which provides computer skills and technical training Among the recipients was the South African Museum of Cultural for out-of-school youth, with the aim of enabling them to find History for its work on promoting indigenous cultural heritage and employment or start a sustainable business of their own.
Employee participation: Nedbank prides itself on the involvement of The Nedbank Childrens Affinity was launched in July 2005, in many of its employees in charitable activities.
It strives to facilitate and partnership with the Nelson Mandela Childrens Fund NMCF, which encourage this by providing time, energy, talent and leadership skills.
works to improve the quality of life for South Africas children and Team Challenge is an example of this, being a team-based, youth.
It is the largest non-profit organisation dedicated to children community-focused initiative designed to give employees the in South Africa.
The fund supports more than 31,000 orphans and opportunity to win a share of R200,000 for their favoured causes.
vulnerable children through its education programmes.
During 2006, During 2006, support was provided through this initiative to The Nedbank Group and the Childrens Affinity clients donated nearly Florida Baby Care Centre, which cares for abandoned and HIV-positive R1.6 million to the NMCF.
babies, and The Blesses Place of Safety, a shelter for orphaned and abandoned children.
Nedbanks commitment to the communities in which it operates and to environmental engagement were recognised by its being voted as The Local Hero programme was launched to recognise those the Emerging Markets Corporate Social Responsibility Bank of the employees who make a difference in their communities through Year by the Banker Awards in 2006. volunteer work.
It supports and showcases the efforts of these individuals, thereby furthering a culture of employee involvement and BEE: As one of the signatories to the FSC, Nedbank remains caring.
The qualifying criteria are stringent and the commitment from committed to meeting and exceeding the requirements of the FSC the staff member must be long-term.
and to achieving the ideals of transformation and implementing BEE initiatives under the FSC within acceptable risk parameters.
The group Foundation Trusts: The BoE Education Foundation and BoE Charitable has taken a number of steps to ensure this.
The organisations Trust provided R3.5m of support to projects in education and welfare philosophy is to differentiate itself in terms of its BEE approach by during 2006, focusing especially on the Gauteng, Western Cape and strengthening existing BEE relationships throughout the group, creating KwaZulu-Natal regions.
Over R450,000 was distributed by these new relationships among established and new BEE players in the bodies to projects focusing on early education, environmental market and by supporting emerging BEE players.
More information on education and welfare.
The Nedbank Foundation works in conjunction Nedbanks approach to the FSC and BEE, as well as further details with staff to support many awareness days and public fund-raising of the projects supported by the Nedbank Foundation, will be provided events, such as the Angel Tree project and a Walk-a-Block, a new in its Sustainability Report, which will be published in April 2007. cancer-related fundraising initiative.
This Report will be available on its website, www.
co. za, and also upon request from the Senior Manager, Corporate Governance and Sustainability, Nedbank Group Limited, P. O.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 73 Caring about people as well as profits Corporate citizenship continued BEE: In September 2006, the Old Mutual Group announced BEE Mutual & Federal transactions in Namibia, which resulted in a broad range of black During 2006, Mutual & Federal spent R1.7 million on Corporate stakeholders acquiring ownership of N$308 million-worth of the Social Investment CSI.
Funds were donated to 27 different Groups Namibian businesses.
There were three separate, but organisations, focusing on the areas of education, health and welfare, interdependent, BEE transactions for Old Mutual Namibia, Nedbank road traffic safety, crime prevention and conservation.
Namibia and Mutual & Federal Namibia.
The main objective of the companys CSI programme is to contribute Overall black equity ownership in Old Mutuals Namibian operations to the creation of a stable and prosperous society by making was increased as a result of these transactions by 12.64%, a difference to the lives of as many people as possible and supporting comprising 13.31% of the value of the Old Mutual Namibia business, projects that contribute to a stable society.
As a large corporate in 11.13% of the value of the Nedbank Namibia business and 11.42% a developing economy, Mutual & Federal also understands its of the value of the Mutual & Federal Namibia business.
responsibility towards the community it serves and aims to participate in the process of upliftment for the benefit of all South Africans.
The transactions included employees, strategic business partners, distributors, trade union members and their families, womens Crime prevention and road traffic safety remain key focus areas of organisations and church groups.
It is estimated that over 250,000 Mutual & Federals CSI programme, not only because of the direct black Namibians will benefit directly or indirectly from them.
impact on the Companys business, but also because of the detrimental impact these issues have on the South African economy.
Three business consortia were carefully selected from different parts of Namibia as Strategic Business Partners on the basis that they would Through its sponsorship of publication of the South African Cricket have the ability to add value to the current businesses by attracting Annual as well as the Annual Cricket Awards, Mutual & Federal has new clients.
These consortia are all broad-based, have empowerment built a strong relationship with the cricketing authorities in South credentials, demonstrate strong leadership, share the Groups values Africa.
Including the funds it donates to the Reach for a Dream and have relevant financial services experience.
The Group also organisation and for cricket development, its sponsorship amounts to selected Strategic Community Partners, notably Womens Action for around R1 million per annum.
It also sponsors the Universities Boat Development and a consortium of large church groups, as active Race held annually in the Eastern Cape.
partners to grow the businesses and contribute to the development of communities across Namibia.
The agreements with these partners The Mutual & Federal Community Trust supports organisations or include detailed measurable performance contracts with significant initiatives that help AIDS orphans, vulnerable children and childfinancial incentives for delivery, which require a substantial headed families and that promote youth empowerment.
During 2006, commitment of time and energy on their part.
a number of suitable projects were selected and the first payments were made to four organisations, amounting to R1 million.
These empowerment deals were an important step in the journey towards transformation of the Groups Namibian businesses.
Rest of Africa Namibia: The Old Mutual Namibia Foundation remains committed to Zimbabwe: During 2006, Old Mutual Zimbabwe continued to support being a good corporate citizen and to helping to create sustainable projects under its structured social responsibility programme, including livelihoods in Namibia.
The Foundation tries to ensure that, through community projects, arts and culture programmes and business and mutual understanding and responsible behaviour, the role of business education programmes.
in building a better future is recognised and encouraged.
Its agenda is tailored to meet the Companys social priorities by supporting The Jarios Jiri centre continued to receive support in 2006, including education, health and welfare and accelerating the transition to projects to generate income to aid security for the centre.
Old Mutual a sustainable way of life in local communities.
Zimbabwe staff were involved in a sponsored walk for Jarios Jiri, raising Z$500,000 towards refurbishment of childrens facilities.
During 2006, over N$1,500,000 was spent on existing projects as well as new partnerships.
Among the projects supported were the Highfield, one of Harares high-density suburbs, received a donation Mathematics Project in conjunction with Nedbank for the upliftment of over Z$3.5 million to establish a Technology Centre at its library of mathematics in rural areas.
to provide services to schoolchildren and the general community.
In the health and welfare area, support continued to be provided for Old Mutual Zimbabwe also supported the BOOST Fellowship, the Namibian Cancer Association.
In addition, a donation of a non-profit organisation that aims to help students adopt a N$300,000 was made to help address some of the health and possibility-oriented approach to life, and to help them find ways to infrastructure problems arising from the polio epidemic that affected build successful futures for themselves and their communities.
Among Namibia during 2006, including assistance for polio immunisation the initiatives supported by the Company was a National Leadership campaigns.
Conference to train student leaders and their faculty advisers how to establish and run a successful BOOST organisation.
Old Mutual Namibia also supported a road safety campaign during the year.
Bulawayo Island Hospice received Z$100,000 to enable it to meet salaries of its nurses.
A similar amount was donated to the Cancer At the end of 2006, the Namibian Foundation had assets of nearly Association of Zimbabwe to support its fight against cancer.
N$13 million, including 170,000 shares in Old Mutual plc.
Old Mutual Zimbabwe provided Z$2 million during the year to support a major regeneration of the Reps Theatre in Harare, which is a major arts and entertainment centre in the city.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 74 Growing economies Organic farms The Old Mutual Foundation has worked closely with the Organic Farms Group over the past two years to establish co-operative growing schemes on community land for farmers who have been through its organic farming training programme Here Wellington, one farmer who has been through the training programme, proudly shares his experience and success Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 75 Caring about people as well as profits Corporate citizenship continued Old Mutual Zimbabwe has agreed to continue its sponsorship of the In addition to making monetary grants through its Charitable Zimbabwe cricket team until the end of 2007.
The Group believes Foundation, OMAM seeks to promote staff involvement by that it remains important to support the development of cricket encouraging employees to take advantage of their paid volunteer day, in Zimbabwe.
sponsoring company-wide charitable events and matching personal charitable gifts from Foundation assets.
At the end of the year, the Zimbabwe Foundation had assets of Z$11.75 billion, including 1,400,000 shares in Old Mutual plc.
During the year, OMAM employees lent their support to Daffodil Day benefiting the American Cancer Society, Lee Denim Day benefiting the Malawi: Old Mutual Malawi continued during 2006 to support Susan G. Komen Foundation, and a toy drive benefiting the children a number of projects in the education and health sectors.
Total at the Home for Little Wanderers.
donations of MK3 million were made to various organisations and schools.
Sponsorship support was provided to the National Womens Old Mutual Financial Network OMFN : The Groups US Life business, Football Association to promote womens football in Malawi, to the OMFN, made significant contributions to a number of worthy Rotary Club of Lilongwe and to the Malawi Blood Transfusion Service organisations during 2006.
Employee gifts to charitable organisations for its Youth Wing to participate in the International Society for Blood were matched by OMFN through its matching programme on a dollarTransfusion Congress in Cape Town.
for-dollar basis up to an annual limit of $1,000.
During 2006, nearly 70 projects and or organisations were supported in this way, with the Old Mutual continued to sponsor the best medical students of each focus being on education, health and community issues.
Organisations class at the College of Medicine at the University of Malawi.
The that received donations included the Maryland Food Bank, the prizes given to the students increased by 28% in 2006.
Donations Leukaemia & Lymphoma Society, National MS Society, Habitat for were also given to NAPHAM, an organisation for people living Humanity, Special Olympics, Ride across Maryland and the Johns positively with HIV AIDS, for several of its projects.
Total funds generated by employees, and subsequently matched by the Company, amounted to over $20,000.
Funds were donated to the Rotary Club of Blantyre to support the drilling of a borehole at Chimwemwe Orphanage centre for HIVOMFN hosted its second annual charity golf challenge during October positive children.
The Aged Society of Malawi continued to be 2006 at the North Fulton Golf Course in Atlanta, Georgia.
The event supported by Old Mutual for its project to support the elderly in the attracted 60 golfing enthusiasts and several volunteers working and country.
playing to benefit Relay for Life and The American Cancer Society.
Through generous golf hole sponsorships and cash contributions, At the end of the year, the Malawi Foundation had assets of nearly the event raised over $30,000 for cancer research.
MK94 million, including 190,000 shares in Old Mutual plc.
From a corporate perspective, OMFN focused its support on local Kenya: Old Mutual Kenya staff supported numerous projects in 2006, organisations including Rebuilding Together, a non-profit organisation including Kilimani Primary School for the visually impaired.
Old that works with local businesses and community associations to Mutual also launched a mentorship programme, which features repair and rehabilitate the homes of low-income, elderly or disabled internship opportunities for the students and training for pupils and homeowners.
The Companys contribution to the University of teachers in goal-setting and includes visits to Old Mutuals Baltimore goes directly to the Baltimore City Scholars and Leadership headquarters in Nairobi.
The Institute of Human Virology will help AIDS and HIV patients better understand the disease and possible treatments.
The World Hope Centre also received support in 2006.
The centre OMFN also supported Big Brother Big Sisters, Ronald McDonald is a community-based organisation working in the Kawangware House, American Red Cross, and the American Film Institute.
slums on the outskirts of Nairobi, involving residents in various Corporate contributions totalled $22,500.
projects, especially in education and sports.
Old Mutual staff helped it to organise a highly successful sports day, featuring basketball and Skandia soccer, and also donated sports equipment and food.
Further activities Skandias business concept is to meet peoples need for financial have been scheduled in what will be a continuing programme.
security, with corporate social responsibility playing an integral role in the business.
USA Old Mutual Asset Management OMAM : OMAM remains committed Nordic: The flagship project for the Nordic region is Ideas for Life.
to supporting local communities in need around its Boston Started in 1987, Ideas for Life works preventively and long-term, headquarters and member firm locations through its employee-run providing activities for children and youth organised under the Charitable Foundation.
The OMAM Charitable Foundation continued guidance of parents and teachers.
The work takes place in close to focus its efforts during 2006 on four target areas, community, co-operation with municipalities, schools and other organisations.
healthcare, homelessness and emergency crisis intervention.
It strove The Ideas for Life Organisation consists of a central unit through to make meaningful contributions to its partner organisations, with which co-operation projects are directed by a project co-ordinator.
Skandia offers professional guidance and support, but also financial support depending on the objective of the project.
Among the causes supported were national organisations such as City Year, Boys and Girls Club of America, and the United Way, The business communitys credibility in social issues is based on as well as local organisations including the Pine Street Inn, Home a long-term effort and genuine commitment.
Awareness of for Little Wanderers, Rosies Place, Women of Means, Champions responsibility for social development and the willingness to accept for Children and the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention this responsibility are deeply rooted in Skandia.
Each month, of Cruelty to Children.
hundreds of Skandia employees devote many working hours to Ideas for Life activities for children and young people.
Their dedication is essential and of central importance.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 76 Through Ideas for Life, Skandia Nordic is also conducting active Old Mutual plc and Old Mutual Asset Managers UK community work under the Umbrella Project.
Affiliated with EQUAL, Schools project: 2006 was the final year of the UK SA schools the EU-financed diversity initiative, Umbrella aims to use opiniontwinning project, a partnership between Old Mutual plc and the shaping activities to increase knowledge about diversity and all forms British Council involving six schools from the London Borough of of discrimination in the workplace.
Skandias goal is to be an active Southwark and six schools in the Cape Town area.
voice in the debate and to influence behaviours and attitude on diversity issues.
As a partner, Skandia is primarily involved in the The programme aims to provide a unique opportunity for the twelve publication and spread of information as well as participating in schools involved to enrich the learning process by introducing an seminars on diversity.
international dimension into the lives of the children, their teachers, parents and the wider communities.
Part of the success of this Europe and Latin America: Skandia Switzerland supported a wide programme lies in the fact that the partnership activities do not stand variety of charities and causes in 2006, including participation in the alone, but are integrated into the curriculum and the wider aims of Hard Work in the Alps initiative, where employees helped farmers the school so that their contribution can be delivered in a strategic work their land.
Skandia donated these workers days.
In Spain, staff and co-ordinated way.
The focus of the work remains on mathematics gave over 15,700 through direct contributions and donations linked and science.
The final year has seen the culmination of many projects to their Christmas cards.
Over 5,300 was donated to Oxfam to help in the schools, from cultural awareness programmes to the differing buy Christmas presents for local good causes.
In Poland, Skandia aspects of how maths is incorporated into the curriculum.
Teachers supported a family football picnic along with the Scandinavian Polish and pupils alike have spoken of what they have gained from being Chamber of Commerce.
Every year Skandia Vita in Italy donates part of the programme and some of the partnerships will continue money for the distribution of Christmas gifts to social associations and after our involvement ceases.
in 2006 money was also donated to Un Altro Mondo for its activities in a school in Senegal.
Each member of the Skandia Germany Old Mutual plc staff continued to participate in a volunteering Steering Group gave one week to work in a social institute in Berlin.
programme, working with children in the schools from the twinning Support was also provided through donations of equipment and programme.
Volunteers regularly visited four of the London schools consulting services.
10,000 was given to Schmetterlingskinder in during 2006 to work with children who either needed support in Austria, a charity that supports children with Epidermolysis Bullosa, maths or were gifted and could benefit from additional tutoring.
a rare genetic condition that leaves them with extremely fragile skin.
Old Mutual also supported music workshops in the schools in conjunction with musicians from the City of London Sinfonia.
Skandias staff in Colombia launched the Skandia Cultural Centre in 2006, a corporate initiative that looks to promote culture through Staff matching: A staff matching scheme, which supports Old Mutual music, painting and visual arts.
2006 saw ten different activities employees in their own activities in relation to good causes, was run focused on a range of ages from children to retirees.
Alongside this through the Bermuda Foundation in 2006.
Money was raised for a programme there was also support for financial education.
Skandia wide range of charities, including Water Aid, The Anthony Nolan Trust worked closely with the media to initiate activities to promote a culture and Walk the Walk.
Staff also supported various national fund-raising of saving and financial planning.
To support work with adults, Skandia days including Jeans 4 Genes, Wear it Pink and Children in Need.
has also published some reports to aid children to learn about money, Funds raised at these events were matched by the Bermuda and workshops are run on personal finance planning.
clubbed together to run a Christmas party for disadvantaged children from the suburbs of Santiago.
Skandia Mexico runs a General donations: Ad hoc donations were made throughout the year.
large-scale project working with children with cancer.
This programme, Projects that received support included Books for Schools, under which is run in association with Casa fide la Amistad, supports them which Old Mutual funded a crate of books to be sent out to South through their treatment and helps them to continue their education.
Africa for use in schools and libraries.
The Victoria Girls School Choir received support for a tour, enabling it to take part in two music Skandia UK: Skandia UK gave over 25,000 to charities through festivals in Europe.
Crisis, the charity that works to fight homelessness employee support and matching during 2006.
The largest recipient and to empower people to fulfil their potential, received support in a was Hampshire Air Ambulance, which received just under 10,000 number of ways throughout 2006.
A team of staff took part in the from staff and another 5,000 in matching from Skandia.
Another Crisis Square Mile Run in June 2006 and Old Mutual donated money charity supported by Skandia UK was the Teenage Cancer Trust, to Crisis for every member of staff that took part.
Another team from which builds cancer units for teenagers in hospitals.
The third charity Old Mutual participated in the Marie Curie Brain Game, emerging as supported by the staff at Skandia UK was Children in Need.
over 3,600 was donated through the fund-raising efforts of staff at the Southampton Office.
Old Mutual took part in the Crisis Christmas Card Challenge, making a donation to Crisis in lieu of sending physical Christmas cards.
Skandia UK is the title sponsor for the annual sailing regatta at Cowes, known as Skandia Cowes Week, which is one the largest, Staff chose Crisis, along with Cancer Research UK and the RSPCA, longest-running and most prestigious international sailing regattas as the three charities to receive 10,000 each from the Bermuda in the world.
Around 1,000 boats take part each year.
Foundation through the Staff Charity Vote for the year.
Old Mutual plc continued its support for the Nelson Mandela Foundation, which aims to promote and enable the growth of human fulfilment and the continuous expansion of the frontiers of freedom through four programme areas, The Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory and Commemoration, a Lecture and Seminar Series, HIV AIDS projects and Education and Rural Development.
Old Mutual plc has committed to give 1 million to this Foundation over five years.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 77 Caring about people as well as profits Investing in the future Enriching the learning process Bringing creative music activities to children at the partnership schools supported by Old Mutual.
In 2006, Old Mutuals support enabled pupils at London schools in the UK SA twinning project to participate in music workshops run by musicians from the City of London Sinfonia.
The musicians worked with the schools curriculum to develop the learning process and to offer a chance for the children to be creative with music that they would not normally be offered Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 78 Corporate citizenship continued It was agreed during the year that the Bermuda Foundation would These objectives are applied across the Group at the business unit support the Chairmans Scholarship fund.
This fund is run in level, using best practice in environmental management.
Where association with the Centre for Financial and Management Studies at appropriate, business units have introduced policies more specifically the School of Oriental and African Studies at the University of London.
tailored to their particular operations.
Old Mutual has agreed to support a number of students on selected courses such as the MSc Financial Management, MSc Financial Energy use Economics or the Postgraduate Diploma in Economic Principles.
Across Old Mutuals sites, energy use is tracked and reported centrally.
Support will begin in 2007 and last for the duration of the students Many buildings where an Old Mutual company is the owner-occupier courses.
have undergone energy efficiency reviews and any recommendations received have been investigated.
Energy use in the property portfolio At the end of 2006, the Bermuda Foundation had assets of over managed by Old Mutual Properties in South Africa is also tracked 6.3 million, including 3,650,000 shares in Old Mutual plc.
and more information on the resource use of these buildings is included in the OMSAs Corporate Citizenship Report.
Where Old OMAM UK : OMAM UK s Corporate Charitable Giving programme Mutual is not an owner-occupier, efficiency drives are still undertaken supported a number of charitable causes during the year, including at many of the buildings.
Wateraid, Whizz Kids, Children with Leukaemia, Leukaemia Research, the Stroke Association, Scene and Heard, and Fairhaven Trust.
Water consumption Old Mutual measures water consumption across the Group.
Figures OMAM UK staff also participated in Jeans for Genes and Breast show a rise in water consumption over the year.
This is due to the Cancer Awareness charity days, with the company matching the total introduction of air conditioning units at some of the offices, which has personal contributions given to both charities.
a significant effect on water use.
In response to the rise, awareness programmes have been introduced in some offices to highlight Again this year, instead of sending traditional Christmas cards, OMAM activities that staff can undertake to reduce the level of water UK made a donation to Save the Children.
Further water reduction programmes will be pursued in 2007, with the aim of reducing consumption and meeting targets Environment set around the business units.
As a financial services provider, the Groups primary aim is to meet Waste production the financial needs of its clients.
In doing so, the Group recognises With the aim of reducing waste production across the Group, many that it has an impact on the environment, both directly through the operations have recycling facilities in place for a variety of substances.
running of its offices and indirectly through meeting the investment We track both the amount of waste generated and that which is needs of its clients.
The Group introduced its environmental policy recycled.
We look for ways to re-use furniture and equipment that is five years ago.
Mr Christopher Collins, the Chairman of Old Mutual not longer required and dispose of all equipment in line with plc, has been designated as the member of the Board responsible applicable legislation.
To reduce the production of waste at the London for the Groups environmental performance.
head office, staff are encouraged to double-side their printing and only print documents when necessary.
Recycling bins are in place around 2006 was a year of growth for the Group and involved the further the office for all kinds of paper and plastic, and cans and glass can rolling-out of the Groups policies in this and other areas.
As the head lessee of Old Mutual Place in London, integration of Skandia and a programme to raise environmental Old Mutual plc also works with its subtenants to support recycling awareness were the main areas of focus for 2006. schemes and environmental awareness-raising throughout the building.
A CSR conference was held in June 2006, one day of which was Climate change devoted to a discussion of the environmental issues facing the Group Old Mutual recognises that climate change is a major issue and and how these should be addressed.
affects the financial sector both directly thorough the offices it runs and indirectly through its businesses.
Old Mutual is committed to At each business unit, objectives have been set and individuals reducing its carbon footprint and plans to do this through a carbon named to oversee environmental issues.
Monitoring and reporting management programme.
against Key Performance Indicators KPIs fall under these individuals remit and this discipline is, where possible, applied across the Group.
At the beginning of 2007 Old Mutual became a signatory to The The Groups KPIs and environmental targets are reviewed annually Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, a global initiative that informs to ensure their continuing appropriateness.
Reporting against these investors on issues of climate change.
Nedbank Group is also targets is published by the business units in their individual reports.
At Group level, annual comparable data is collated and disclosed to rating agencies and other regulatory bodies.
Hazardous materials The Group has little contact with materials that could do great damage The Groups environmental objectives are: to the environment.
It has ensured, where relevant, that it has avoided using materials that may cause harm.
to ensure compliance at local, national and international levels to minimise the consumption of energy, water and materials across operations to minimise solid waste generation by waste re-use and recycling wherever possible to avoid the use of materials that may cause harm to the environment to promote internal awareness of environmental issues with staff to support environmental initiatives by employees and relevant external groups.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 79 Caring about people as well as profits Corporate citizenship continued Environmental management Code of business conduct ethics and human rights The integration of Skandia has increased the level to which the Group As part of the Groups commitment to being a good corporate citizen, communicates through Environmental Management Systems EMSs.
it has committed to observe proper practices in the areas of human The EMSs that the Group has in place follow ISO14001 guidelines.
Currently over 50% of the Group has EMSs in place.
Many follow ISO14001 guidelines, although not all are certified.
Data is regularly The Group has also adopted and aims to abide by a Code of Business gathered and performance against site objectives and targets is Conduct Ethics.
The Code includes information on relations with monitored and audited.
Data disclosure from the systems in place customers, suppliers, intermediaries, shareholders and investors, occurs at both OMSA and Nedbank, which each report separately on employees, government and the local community, competitors and resource use in their Corporate Citizenship and Sustainability Reports.
The Code can be viewed on Old Mutual plcs Data from the systems is collated centrally and work will continue website and is also on the Old Mutual intranet for staff.
The Code of to align Skandias systems to those in place across the rest of the Business Conduct Ethics supports the ILO Core Labour Standards, Old Mutual Group.
covering issues such as equal opportunities and freedom of association.
The Group does not support forced labour or child labour Reporting and benchmarking in any of its operations.
Old Mutual plc is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, the selection criteria for which include working towards environmental sustainability, The Group Company Secretary has responsibility for the Code of developing positive relationships with stakeholders, and upholding Business Conduct Ethics.
As human rights statements exist within and supporting universal human rights.
that Code, any suspected breach will be dealt with through the appropriate risk functions and the Audit and Risk committees that are Old Mutual and Nedbank Group are also each included in the JSEs in place around the Group.
These also enable matters to be suitably Socially Responsible Investment Index, with Nedbank Group ranked escalated to the Group Audit and Risk Committee, where warranted.
first in the low environmental impact category.
This Index measures participant companies commitment and performance against a triple Martin C Murray bottom line of sustainability in terms of environmental, economic and Group Company Secretary social impacts.
26 February 2007 Nedbank Group has also been listed on the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index DJSI for a second year.
The DJSI was the worlds first benchmark to track the performance of leading companies in terms of corporate sustainability.
Nedbank Group is one of only four companies with a primary listing in South Africa to be listed in the Index.
Old Mutual has withdrawn from the Business in the Community BITC Index for Corporate Responsibility.
Although useful to help structure internal reporting, it has been agreed that, across the Old Mutual Group, the focus will instead be on the FTSE4Good Index and that all relevant business units will be required to comply, as a minimum, with the FTSE4Good requirements.
Business units may, however, also participate in other indices or benchmarking surveys if they consider this appropriate.
Health & safety The Group recognises its obligation to supply its employees with a safe and clean working environment.
Data on health and safety compliance are collated and reported to the Board twice yearly via Mr Christopher Collins, the director responsible.
Nedbank Group and Old Mutual are aware of the risk of robberies and attacks at their banking businesses and work continually to improve their systems to minimise the risk to their employees.
During 2006 there was one work-related fatality in the Group when a Nedbank employee was involved in a road traffic accident.
No other material health or safety issues were reported from around the Group over the year.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 80
