Corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of Employees' involvement shareholders, employees and customers are best served The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such the informed of the progress of the business.
The Group Group ensures that a high standard of corporate sponsors a Staff Forum, attended by elected staff governance is maintained.
representatives from each area of the business, which exists primarily to facilitate communication and Training and development dissemination of information throughout the Group and The Group has been accredited under the 'Investors in provides a means by which employees can be consulted People' scheme since 1997.
This demonstrates the on matters affecting them.
Group's commitment to the training and development of employees.
The staff appraisal system is designed to Employees are provided with regular information on the assist employees in developing their careers and to performance and plans of the Group, and the financial identify and provide appropriate training opportunities.
and economic factors affecting it, through information The corporate training and development strategy focuses circulars and presentations.
on providing opportunities to develop all its staff and is The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme central to the achievement of the Group's business and a profit sharing scheme, both of which enable eligible objectives.
employees to benefit from the performance of the Equality and diversity business.
The Group is committed to providing a working The directors encourage employee involvement at all environment in which employees feel valued and levels through the staff appraisal process and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the communication between directors, team leaders, teams business, and to employing a workforce that recognises and individual employees.
Employees are requested to co-operate with the Group's efforts to ensure the policy is Environmental policy fully implemented.
The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment and operates a The Group's aim is that its employees should be able to Green Charter, which: work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying and that employees, job ensures all buildings occupied by the Group are applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers managed efficiently by its Facilities Team and Building and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: Surveyor provides facilities to enable employees to re-cycle used race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or products national origins controls business travel and provides opportunities for gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status employees to travel to work in various ways: i. e. religious or political beliefs or affiliations providing cycle racks and showers where possible disability, impairment or age displays a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS encourage employees to be environmentally friendly at membership of a trade union all times and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or ensures liaison with the local community unfair conditions or requirements.
ensures redundant IT equipment is disposed of within current directives regulations WEEE - Waste Electrical Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual and Electronic Equipment.
98% of such equipment is basis and employee satisfaction with equality of re-cycled.
opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee feedback surveys.
Human Resources policies are regularly reviewed to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to train and develop according to their abilities.
16 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Health and Safety policy Charitable contributions It is the Group's policy to comply with the terms of the The Group contributes to registered charities serving the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, and subsequent local communities in which it operates.
Included in the legislation and to provide and maintain a healthy and safe charitable contributions shown in the Directors' Report working environment.
The health and safety objective of are contributions of 59,625 2005: 76,431 made by the the Group is to minimise the number of instances of Group to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling occupational accidents and illnesses and ultimately which operates the Consumer Credit Counselling Service achieve an accident-free workplace.
and contributions of 10,000 2005: 5,000 to the Money Advice Trust, which operates National Debtline.
The Group The Group recognises and accepts its duty to protect has also contributed to charities throughout the year by the health and safety of all visitors to its premises, way of single donations.
including contractors and temporary workers, as well as any members of the public who might be affected by The Group's main objective is to support children's and our operations.
local charities although no charity request is overlooked.
During the last year the Group has helped many and While the management of the Group will do all within its varied charities and causes such as: The Children's Heart power to ensure the health and safety of its employees, Foundation, Children's Safety Education which helps it is recognised that health and safety at work is the support local schools in their anti-bullying campaign, responsibility of each and every individual associated with the British Red Cross and Shelter.
It is the duty of each employee to take reasonable care of their own and other people's welfare The Group also supports Paragon's Charity Committee, and to report any situation which may pose a threat to the consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a well-being of any other person.
variety of fundraising activities throughout the year, raising in the region of 20,000 for the employees' chosen Health and safety policies and procedures are managed by charity.
All employees are given the opportunity to the Group's Property Services team who liaise with senior nominate a charity and a vote is carried out to select the management and Human Resources as necessary.
beneficiary of the year's fundraising.
External consultants are employed and regular meetings are held with Group Property Services.
The consultants also attend senior management meetings twice a year.
All employees are provided with such equipment, information, training and supervision as is necessary to implement the policy in order to achieve the above stated objective.
The Group makes available such finances and resources deemed reasonable to implement this policy.
All injuries, however small, sustained by a person at work must be reported.
Accident records are crucial to the effective monitoring and revision of the policy and must therefore be accurate and comprehensive.
The Group recognises the civil and moral need to ensure that all employees adhere to this health and safety policy and is prepared to invoke the disciplinary procedure in case of any deliberate disregard for the health and safety policy.
The Group's health and safety policy is continually monitored and updated, particularly when changes in the scale or nature of our operations occur.
The policy is updated at least every twelve months.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 17
