58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:42 Page 29 Provident Financial plc 29 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility CR is integral to what we do as a business.
By operating our business in a manner that has positive effects socially, environmentally and economically we can ensure that we continue to grow in a sustainable way.
Our CR programme not only allows us to respond to the needs of our staff and suppliers, local communities and others who affect and are affected by our business, but also to minimise our impact on the environment.
This report contains an overview of our work in these areas.
For a more in-depth analysis, please see our 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
com which provides a clear account of how we have managed the social, environmental and economic issues that are important to our key stakeholders.
It also demonstrates how our CR programme has been extended from our UK operations to our international ones.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 30 30 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 To ensure ongoing improvement in our CR performance, our business continues to set challenging objectives and targets.
The Fair Cities employment initiative Through the Fair Cities employment initiative, training and employment opportunities are given to groups typically under-represented in the workplace.
In 2006, we provided 25 temporary work placements.
Employee forums Employee forums in the UK and The Green Travel Guide international businesses give our employees the opportunity During 2006, we published our to raise concerns and make Green Travel Guide to assist us decisions in the workplace.
in minimising the environmental impacts that arise from the transport-related decisions we make as a business.
The guide offers advice on how to tackle unsustainable patterns of transport Rob Lawson and Niki Simpson use and provides guidance to CR Managers, Bradford employees on how they can select transport alternatives that are Niki and Rob both joined Provident in 2006.
Robs both environmentally sound and role involves ensuring that Providents operations, safe.
This includes practical details products and services have positive social, of how staff can eliminate the environmental and economic impacts and Niki need to travel at all by using our focuses on ensuring consistency of the CR tele videoconferencing facilities, programme throughout our international operations.
switching to public transport alternatives such as the bus and Were working hard to make sure corporate train, and contributing to improving responsibility runs through everything we their health by either walking or do as a business.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 31 Provident Financial plc 31 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued Corporate responsibility Responsible lending is a key component of the way our business operates.
Our customers Employee engagement We believe its more rewarding Responsible lending is a key for our employees and better component of the way our business for Provident if theres good operates.
It means that we understand communication throughout the our customers circumstances and business and if employees can offer products that are appropriate, be personally engaged in whats Score in Business in the along with a service that is flexible, going on.
All our operating Communitys CR index convenient and personal.
By providing companies now have employee affordable credit to our customers, forums to encourage employees Introduction we are able to contribute to financial to express their views.
UK home credit and international Corporate responsibility CR is a businesses began conducting never-ending process in that its In addition, we address the issue of employee engagement surveys and always possible to do better.
This financial inclusion through the work intend to repeat the process at least Score in Business in the year weve done more to embed we carry out with the money advice every year.
Employee newsletters Environment index CR into our business processes sector.
For example, our work with and intranet sites also keep our and strengthen the policies and Credit Action focuses on providing people informed and involved.
procedures by which we operate.
financial education approved by the 92% Weve also reviewed the CR Personal Finance Education Group Health and safety programme in our different markets, to school-age children, school We give high priority to the health, tried to ensure a more consistent leavers and young adults.
Many of safety and welfare of our employees.
approach around the world, and our international businesses are now Our group policy for health Group community and sought to identify aspects of developing their own wise borrowing and safety is agreed at board level charitable contributions CR that need greater attention.
and applied to all parts of the business.
Health and safety issues are considered regularly at board 2.0m We place great emphasis meetings and all new employees are given health and safety training.
on recognising talent During the last year, there has and helping people full been a particular focus on personal safety within the groups home their potential.
For the first time, minimum standards were set across To ensure further improvement Our employees the group, including the introduction in our CR performance, our business of personal safety guidelines.
This is continues to establish challenging At the end of 2006, we employed a good base from which to continue objectives and targets in the areas 12,800 staff in the UK and Ireland, to improve performance.
In 2006, we developed Central and Eastern Europe and new objectives and targets for Mexico.
We recognise that our In 2006, the UK business added our community and environment success depends on good people, two new elements a positive health programmes.
The community trained and motivated to do their policy to help employees achieve objectives address our desire to jobs well, and able to support others a proper work-life balance: and a tackle issues relevant to both our in doing theirs.
Within the workplace, strategy for spotting and reducing business and the communities in our responsibilities include: stress in the workplace.
For greater which we operate.
Targets here transparency, we now report our include increasing both the level Training and development progress on health and safety in of employee involvement and Training and development are vital our annual CR report.
increasing the range of opportunities to our business.
We place great for young people.
Our environment emphasis on recognising talent commitments range from reducing and helping people fulfil their our contribution to climate change potential.
Opportunities for training to our indirect impacts through the and development range from supply chain.
comprehensive induction courses for new joiners to modules on team leader skills, counselling and IT.
Includes 4,200 employed agents in Hungary 58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 32 32 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued Corporate responsibility 1 As part of the Green Travel Guide, our 1 2 fleet now contains the environmentally friendlier Toyota Prius.
2 Like Carolyn, a growing number of employees now cycle to work.
3 We continually work to minimise our contribution to climate change.
4 We believe that a diverse workforce is good for business.
We align our environmental 3 management system with ISO14001 and continue to talk to our managers across the globe to ensure consistency and generate continual improvement.
The key areas of focus for our environmental programme continue to be our commitment to minimise our contribution to climate change, waste generation and use of natural resources.
Throughout the year, weve been 4 Diversity Our suppliers working hard to make our data We believe that a diverse workforce collection more consistent and is good for the business and try to Over the last few years, the group precise but still have some way to go, ensure that our employee profile has been developing its systems to especially with our new businesses.
reflects the make-up of the local integrate environmental issues into All of our international businesses community.
We continue to work the management of the supply were externally audited in 2006 and with Race for Opportunity and the chain.
We made good progress in this has given us a good basis from Employers Forum on Disability to 2006 by expanding the remit of the which to work.
ensure that we follow best practice environmental supply chain working in managing diversity issues.
group to include wider social and Since 2001, the UK business has Were also involved in the Fair Cities ethical issues.
The new responsible reduced its energy consumption by employment initiative that seeks to supply chain management 40% and its waste by 30%.
Since provide training and employment group has identified the social making these initial gains, its been opportunities for groups currently and environmental issues that difficult to maintain such significant under-represented in the workplace.
are material to our suppliers and decreases.
However, were confident Under this initiative we have so consulted with the business on of further gains through implementing far created temporary employment proposed measures such as periodic a series of fundamental changes.
auditing and the incorporation of These include the project to CR criteria into tenders and replace agents paper records with purchasing guidelines.
We will hand-held devices, the introduction Since 2001, the UK continue to formalise this approach of fax-to-desktop technology, and during 2007. a programme to introduce systems business has reduced its to charge departments by their use of printers and copiers so as energy consumption by The environment to encourage lower usage.
Within our UK offices, were committed 40% and its waste by 30%.
We aim to make as little impact to purchasing 100% green tariff on the environment as possible electricity and will continue to and are now in the sixth year of a monitor the options available in systematic programme to improve our overseas markets.
our environmental practices and performance.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 33 Provident Financial plc 33 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Awards and recognitions Provident Financial is included in the main sustainability indices.
For the fourth year running weve retained our position in the FTSE4Good index of the UKs most responsible companies.
For the last two years, Its important for us to weve been selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability obtain feedback from those Indices which track the leading  companies.
interested in and affected Investors are increasingly concerned with the management of social, by our business.
environmental and ethical risks and our inclusion in these indices demonstrates we have good policies Working with others to improve 5 and systems in place.
our CR performance Weve done well again in Business in Its important for us to obtain the Communitys CR index.
We were feedback from those interested in joint 69th in the ranking in 2004 and affected by our business.
For and moved up to joint 64th place in the past few years, weve received 2005 with a score of 86% up five invaluable feedback on our CR percentage points on last time.
reporting at annual round-table On the basis of our CR performance, events managed by an external we were included for the second specialist organisation.
year running in The Sunday Times Top 100 Companies that Count.
We are active members of a number Our score in the Business in the of CR-orientated organisations.
Environment index was up 2% at 92%.
In the UK we are national members of Business in the Community and In June 2006, Provident Insurance regional members of Bradford was awarded a major commendation Cares and Calderdale Cares, as at the Business Committed to the well as various diversity organisations.
Environment awards in recognition We are also members of the London of its motor claims environmental Benchmarking Group and the supply chain programme.
award recognises the businesss achievement in working with suppliers Internationally, we are members of such as bodyshops and salvage CSREurope,  5 Gathering feedback on our CR 6 reporting and CR programme helps to agents to reduce their impact on the Biznesu the Polish responsible shape the programme in the future.
business forum and Centrum Wolontariatu the Polish centre for 6 Jan Spence, co-ordinator for Our businesses in other countries volunteering.
In Hungary, we work Provident Insurances Well Being at are also gaining recognition for their with the Foundation for Corporate Work programme, supports employees in maintaining a healthy lifestyle, CR practices and performance.
In Social Responsibility, the British such as help in giving up smoking Mexico, for example, we work with the Chamber of Commerce Special and losing weight.
Centre for Corporate Philanthropy Interest Group for CSR, the CSR CEMEFI which has recognised us as working group of the Hungarian a responsible company.
Business Leaders Forum, and the American Chamber of Commerce In the Czech Republic, the business environmental working group.
has been recognised by the Frum Drc donors forum as a TOP In the Czech Republic, we have been Firemn Filantrop top corporate a patron of the British Chamber of philanthropist for the second year Commerce since 2001, and since in a row.
2004 have worked closely with the Chamber and with other members to introduce corporate responsibility into Czech firms.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 34 34 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued Corporate responsibility Investing in the community The purpose of our community investment programme is to benefit the communities in which our customers, agents and employees 1 2 live and work.
With many of our customers on modest incomes, these communities are often less privileged than some.
Under the heading of new opportunities for young people, we try to make our programmes relevant to local needs.
We also seek maximum value Sessions are run by freelance artists for our contribution by managing and cover an amazing range of our projects well and carefully activities from street dance, rap measuring what we put in and what writing and puppet making to story we get out.
3 In an industry that can sometimes Having started in 2006, the be misunderstood, our community programme will run for three years programme helps highlight the and provide over 1,000 workshops positive aspects of our business.
The It also improves the overall quality longer-term aim is that theatres and of life, both for those we help schools should form partnerships that directly and for others in the same outlast the project itself.
Providents community which, again, can contribution covers not just funding only be good for our business.
at 250,000 a year, but Sparkbranded items such as T-shirts and Not least, our community programme time devoted by staff.
1 African drumming at a Spark session 4 in Birmingham.
gives our employees a chance to make a difference, while gaining A further programme is Provident 2 Our community programme works valuable experience and developing Action for Creative Kids that provides to give children confidence through their skills in the process.
short breaks at youth hostels for engaging, creative activity.
3 A pupil from Leeds performs on UK community projects This came to an end in England and stage at the Quarry Theatre in the Our main project in the UK is Spark, Wales in 2006 but continues in West Yorkshire Playhouse.
an arts education programme Scotland and Ireland, with extra carried out in partnership with the funding this year for the Irish part 4 Children show off their creations at showcase events for Spark.
West Yorkshire Playhouse, in Leeds.
The aim is to link theatres with 5 A pupil in Bradford takes part in street schools in their local communities For the past five years we have dance workshops for the first time.
5 and encourage children in inner-city also supported the Princes Trusts areas to enjoy the arts, broaden business start-up programme which their horizons and discover their provides loans to disadvantaged own creativity.
young people who want to start their own businesses.
As well as Along with the Playhouse, were contributing financially, we provided linking up with seven other theatres a panel of managers to assess some in Dublin, Edinburgh, Dundee, Bolton, of the applications and then offered Birmingham, Newport and Battersea.
mentors from our workforce to Each works with a minimum of six support successful candidates.
Over local schools to offer children aged the last five years weve provided a seven to eleven a stimulating, start for over 80 entrepreneurs, from five-week programme of arts-based web designers and plasterers to a activities.
Our different businesses in the UK all have their own community programmes with a strong emphasis on getting employees involved in local projects.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 35 Provident Financial plc 35 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 International community projects Our businesses in other Community projects in the international businesses share the countries are also gaining theme of education and social inclusion.
Though naturally they recognition for their CR vary according to local needs, they consistently seek to offer new practices and performance.
As in the UK, the emphasis is on For the fourth year running, 6 partnerships and encouraging staff the business in Slovakia supported and agents to be personally involved.
the international indoor football tournament for hearing-impaired In partnership with the Volunteer children, this year drawing teams Centre Association in Poland, from ten countries.
It also continued Provident Polska runs a programme its life-skills training for children called Yes!
Under the about to leave foster homes to help scheme, employees and agents ease their way into the adult world.
apply for funds for their own volunteering initiatives typically The Hungarian business is a major helping orphanages or schools in supporter of the Association of rural areas.
The aim is to capitalise Large Families.
This year it sponsored on employees desire to help, but to its two main events a family day do so in a systematic way.
In 2006, road show that visited six regions 24 such projects received funding and attracted 25,000 participants: from the business.
Thanks to and the Associations Christmas and the programme, Provident is now New Year celebrations.
Separately, considered a leader in corporate it sponsors a project to decorate volunteering in Poland.
the walls of childrens hospitals with friendly, colourful cartoon figures.
Mindful that most of its agents are women, Provident has also sponsored The community programme in a series of personal safety courses Mexico focuses on education.
for women in Polands second This year it included donations of 6 The business in Slovakia supports 7 the international indoor football city, Lodz.
materials to refurbish two schools tournament for hearing-impaired and support for an information children.
The Czech business has a strong and training day on running tradition of donating to good household budgets for women who 7 The Hungarian business is a major causes, backed by the enthusiastic manage their households budget.
supporter of the Association of Large Families and this year sponsored a involvement of its employees and number of family days.
agents in terms of fund-raising and volunteer work.
Its Company 8 Staff volunteer in the Czestochowa with a Heart programme helps region of Poland as part of the Yes!
non-profit organisations to raise their professional standards of work with socially or physically 8 disadvantaged groups.
This year, in partnership with the civic association, Tereza, and the Czech Fundraising Centre, Provident organised two seminars to help non-profit organisations to operate more professionally and effectively.
58.31 PF AR06 JD P11:Layout 1 16 3 07 15:43 Page 36 36 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2006 Business review continued Corporate responsibility Support for money advice Money advice organisations As well as these recognised national and financial education supported by Provident Financial agencies, we support the following The majority of our financial more specialised providers, namely: Why support money advice?
support to the money advice sector Provident has long-standing is directed to those organisations Credit Action This is a national relationships with the free money that will deliver advice as part of the money education charity which advice sector.
We believe that governments joined up network of produces a range of resources individuals with financial difficulties advice agencies which consumers to assist individuals to manage should have access to free, will first access via a single national their finances.
It also works independent, quality-assured advice.
The organisations with a wide range of partners Also, if things are going wrong, money we support are listed below: to develop financial education advisors will be the first to find out projects tailored to the needs and they provide an important Citizens Advice Our support of specific groups.
source of feedback for creditors.
enables them to train and develop Historically, there have been very money advisors and debt Debt Cred This organisation few problems concerning home counsellors.
focuses on financial literacy by credit.
Nonetheless, our staff providing personal financial attend regional forums attended Advice UK The UKs largest education, principally for schoolby creditors and consumer network of free, independent age children, school leavers and representatives.
We also attend advice centres.
Our support enables and provide financial support for supports the training and Personal Finance Education Group money advice sector annual development of front line advisors.
approved advisors to travel to national conferences.
schools and deliver bespoke National Debtline We have financial literacy sessions intended In many cases, a home credit supported this Birmingham-based to equip young people with basic customers short-term financial organisation for some time.
money management skills in difficulties can be resolved between As a provider with a wealth of preparation for university or work.
the customer and their agent.
The experience in providing telephone agent is well-placed to understand advice, National Debtline is a key Christians Against Poverty how a households financial component of the governments A charity with headquarters in circumstances can suddenly change.
plan to provide a single telephone Bradford which we have supported Should this happen, they can agree gateway for all money advice since its inception around ten to reduce a customers weekly enquiries in the UK.
It has now expanded payment at no extra cost.
Customers significantly and offers its debt appreciate this flexibility and Consumer Credit Counselling counselling and financial tolerance.
This is reflected in our very Service The UKs leading education services from centres high customer satisfaction ratings.
provider of debt management in 41 locations across England.
We make fair share However, we accept that on some contributions around 12% of any For more information you can view occasions customers may have payment we receive from a our Corporate Responsibility Report more significant or multiple debt customer who has entered into at www.
These individuals need an agreed debt repayment plan.
Money Advice Scotland The largest association of individual money advisors in Scotland.
Our support helps to fund the ongoing professional training and assessment of advisors.
