Directors report: Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review is covered by the annual compliance certification process.
In 2006, Acting responsibly we translated the Code into Chinese, Korean and Thai.
These Corporate Responsibility CR is fundamental to how Prudential translations are now available on Prudentials internet site.
operates and is a philosophy that is now embedded in the business.
As part of the Corporate Responsibility strategy, Prudential Prudential recognises that its stakeholders, which include its engaged KPMG in 2006 to review, at the Group Head Office customers, people, shareholders and the communities around level, the Group Code of Business Conduct, the process by its businesses, increasingly support those companies that define which Prudential communicates the Code and the systems and exhibit sound values around trust, ethics and environmental in place for monitoring the Code.
Prudential is currently in responsibility.
the process of reviewing the findings from this review and formulating a plan for implementing improvements.
Prudential also believes that its performance in key areas of conduct such as corporate governance, environmental management and employment practices can have a significant Stakeholder dialogue and positive impact on the Groups financial performance.
Stakeholder engagement enables employees and relevant external Prudentials main focus in 2006 was to ensure that its CR strategy groups to help shape what Prudential does and ensure that their continued to align with its business objectives and with its reasonable expectations are translated into business value.
means listening to and working with its stakeholders and being very clear about its intentions and priorities.
Management and policy During 2006, Prudential commissioned research organisation Ipsos Mori to help it gauge which CR issues are important to its Prudential has developed a Group Governance Framework which key stakeholders.
The results indicated that good environmental is underpinned by a Group Governance Manual and associated management and climate change are, perhaps unsurprisingly, processes.
This encompasses all key policies and procedures, for very high on the agenda for companies in general.
Issues such example its Group Code of Business Conduct, its CR Policy and its as ethical investment and transparent product information are Health and Safety Policy.
Prudential sets its own codes and policies also highlighted as important for financial services companies.
that often go further than legislative requirements.
In response, the CR team is working with the Group Health, Prudential also operates a Group Risk Framework which focuses Safety and Environment team and Prudential Property Investment on reputation issues.
The controls, which are applicable across Managers Limited PRUPIM, part of M&G, to ensure that the Group, are clearly set out in the Group Governance Manual.
Prudential is effectively addressing and aligning its environmental management practices.
Prudentials Group Finance Director, Philip Broadley, has Board level responsibility for social, environmental and ethical risk Assisting people to manage their investments is fundamental to the management.
The Board discusses Prudentials performance Groups business.
Prudential UK has therefore continued to hold on these areas at least once a year.
The Board also reviews and monthly MeetPru events, which give its customers the opportunity approves Prudentials CR report and strategy.
to meet members of the UK executive team and ask questions about both their own policies and broader issues, including the Below the Board, the Corporate Responsibility Committee is a CR programme.
M&G has developed a number of spin-free guides specialist Group-wide committee chaired by the Group Finance for investors which provide straight-forward, easy-to-understand Director.
It is responsible for reviewing business conduct and information on a range of investment options, including bonds and social and environmental policy and ensures consistency across equities, while also tackling subjects such as understanding risk.
The Corporate Responsibility team, which is located in Group Improving financial capability Head Office, develops its strategy, provides training across the Group, and works closely with individual business units to provide The Groups core financial education programme is based on advice, ensuring that the Groups core values are maintained and the need to play its part in enabling consumers to make the right assisting with the development and adaptation of Group-wide decisions for their individual needs.
Such decisions range from initiatives so that they not only fit the overall Group principles but debt management to savings needs.
Informing and empowering also meet local needs.
consumers to make such decisions will, Prudential believes, build better and more permanent relationships between consumers and providers.
Group Code of Business Conduct Prudential began developing its Financial Literacy programme in Prudentials Group Code of Business Conduct the Code sets out the United Kingdom in 2001.
Six years later, Prudential is seeing the ethical standards the Board requires of itself, its employees, significant continued progress, both in the UK and internationally.
agents and others working on behalf of the Group, in their dealings with employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, In the UK, via partnerships with diverse organisations such as the wider community and the environment.
This policy is now in Citizens Advice: the Personal Finance Education Group pfeg : force across the Group and compliance by all business units is Specialist Schools and Academies Trust and National Institute mandatory.
The Code is published both internally on the Group of Adult Continuing Education, thousands of adults and children Head Office intranet and externally on the Prudential website.
are now benefiting from learning how to make decisions that will It is also integrated within the Group Governance Manual and have a profound effect on their financial wellbeing.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 67 Directors report: Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review continued Prudential extended its initiative to Asia in 2004, with an innovative Through participation in the Institutional Investors Group on climate programme called Investing in Your Future, which focuses on change and its participation on the property working group of the women, who are often responsible for planning their familys United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative UNEP FI, financial needs.
This was first launched in China and rolled out in PRUPIM is creating awareness of the implications of climate change Vietnam in 2005.
During 2006, Prudential extended this programme for property investment and how Prudential should address this.
into India and piloted a project in Malaysia.
To date, more than 10,000 women have graduated from the programme in Asia.
Employees The following information is given principally in respect of Investing in our communities employees of the Group in the UK.
The policy towards employees In 2006, Prudential invested 4.7 million in a wide range of overseas is the same but the practical application of the policy projects around its business, supporting education, welfare varies according to local requirements.
This total includes the significant Equal opportunity contribution made by many of the people around the Group Prudential recognises, respects and values difference and through volunteering, often linked with professional skills diversity.
Its equal opportunities policy is to be fair, responsible development.
It also includes direct donations to charitable and caring in all aspects of the business.
The Group seeks to organisations of 3.15 million.
ensure all employees and applicants to its businesses are given In December 2005, The Chairmans Award, the Groups equal opportunity in all aspects of employment to ensure that the international employee volunteering programme was launched Groups businesses attract, retain and promote the best available across the Group.
All the businesses work to embed these principles in all aspects of their management practices and to ensure that this is The programme is managed by the Group CR team and is evident to employees in their day-to-day work.
co-ordinated by local business unit champions around the world.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration and Prudential recognises that many employees already make a encouragement to the employment of applicants with suitable significant contribution to charities as volunteers in their own aptitudes and abilities, and to continuing the employment free time.
The Chairmans Award was set up to recognise this of staff who become disabled, and to providing training and involvement in the community and to give all the Groups career development opportunities to disabled employees.
employees the opportunity to get involved with a local charitable project and to increase the value of the community support they Employee involvement offer through additional contributions.
The Group has effective communication channels through which employees views can be sought on issues which concern The charities that Prudential supports were selected following a them.
Throughout the Group there is close consultation between Group-wide survey of its employees, which identified a preference management and other employees on appropriate matters of for projects that address the needs of children and the elderly concern, with a view to keeping employees informed about within their local community.
Prudential has identified sustainable the progress of the Groups business and the economic factors projects which, where possible, have education at their core.
Communication with employees is achieved in lies at the heart of the Group CR programme aiming to raise levels a number of ways, including one-to-one staff briefings and of financial capability worldwide.
through the Groups intranet site.
In 2006, over 1,600 employees registered to volunteer and The M&Gs Staff Consultative Committee and UK Insurance Operations Chairmans Award supported over 50 projects around the world.
Employee Forum promote communication and consultation For example, over 180 pre-school children in Thailand will be throughout their respective businesses and provide for dialogue able to attend new child care centres thanks to the volunteering on a range of issues of interest to their staff.
efforts of Prudentials employees, where The Chairmans Award is funding the redevelopment and refurbishment of four centres in Following the creation of PGDS in 2006, which brought together the Srirattana district in the Srisaket province.
Similarly, employees IT infrastructure staff into one Group business, PGDS in the UK from Jackson in Denver have been volunteering through Junior commenced the development of a staff consultative forum with Achievements schools programme, helping to educate and inspire the election of representatives.
It is intended that this forum, along young people to value free enterprise, business and economics to with effective direct consultation, will deliver an excellent two-way improve the quality of their lives.
Over 160 students have benefited dialogue between staff and PGDS management.
from the volunteering efforts of the Groups employees.
In 2006, employees were again invited to participate in the Prudential Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The Scheme has now been Responsible investment RI operating for 23 years and 40 per cent of UK staff currently participate.
The Prudential International Savings-Related Share Option Scheme M&Gs approach to responsible investment RI is set out in ISSOS for employees has been operating since 2000 in Hong Kong, the booklet Issues Arising from Share Ownership, available at Malaysia and Singapore: since 2001 in Taiwan and India: and since www.
RI has focused principally on equity markets.
On average 15 per cent of employees in those However, with more than 19 billion as at 31 December 2006 countries covered by the ISSOS currently participate.
In addition, of funds under management, PRUPIM, is one of the UKs largest since 2002 Prudential has operated the International Savings-Related commercial property investment managers and accounts for over Share Option Scheme for Non-Employees ISSOSNE for its agents 80 per cent of Prudentials direct environmental impact in the UK.
Currently 11 per cent of agents participate.
68 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility review Following shareholder agreement in 2000 to authorise the Board to Environment sustainable development introduce a Share Incentive Plan, The Prudential UK Share Incentive Plan SIP was introduced in 2004 for employees of Prudential UK Protecting the environment is essential for the quality of life Services Limited and The Prudential Assurance Company Limited, of current and future generations.
The challenge is to combine and in 2005 for employees of Prudential Services Limited.
This plan continuing economic growth with long-term sustainable enables employees to buy Prudential shares on a tax-efficient basis.
Prudential will endeavour to ensure its policies and For every four Partnership shares bought, an additional Matching business actions promote the consideration of the environment.
Currently 12 per cent of eligible staff participate.
The CR team is working with its peers in other companies to develop an industry-wide approach to climate change.
Prudential The trustees of each of the Groups UK pension schemes include is part of the Forge Group, a consortium of financial institutions elected individuals.
formed to address the CR issues facing the financial services Training and development industry and to develop a consistent approach towards their In the UK, Prudential is a member of the Employers Forum on management.
In November 2006, the Forge Group agreed that its Disability, the Employers in the Community Network, set up by focus in 2007 will be climate change and its strategic implications the National Centre for Volunteering, Race for Opportunity and for the financial services sector.
These organisations aim to share best practice, promote the benefits of a diverse workforce and make In the US, Jackson has carefully monitored and worked to minimise discrimination in the workplace a thing of the past.
any negative environmental impact since it moved to its current headquarters in 2000, working with State and local authorities on Engaging with employees and understanding their expectations new projects which protect the environment.
about corporate values, transparency, career development, performance management, diversity and work-life balance is Supply chain management essential.
This understanding helps the Group to attract, retain and motivate its employees.
Prudential recognises that its own social, environmental and Prudential recognises that it will benefit from the opportunity for economic impacts are associated not only with the products and its employees to develop their talents and achieve satisfying and services it supplies but also with the performance of its suppliers rewarding careers.
Prudential is therefore committed to promoting and contractors.
individual development and regularly assesses employees abilities, It is Prudentials policy to work in partnership with its suppliers to progress and individual training needs.
help them reduce their impact on the environment and to manage the challenges of sustainable growth.
The number of suppliers In Asia, employee education is provided across the Groups Asian engaged on a business as usual basis is very high.
Prudential has markets through PRUuniversity, which is available to all staff and is therefore chosen to focus on those suppliers that potentially pose offered in multiple languages.
Programmes are centrally credited the greatest risk to the environment.
As a result, Prudential has and many are endorsed by external learning institutions.
The identified 55 suppliers to work with on the programme.
courses cover CR, management and leadership, technical and business skills as well as a comprehensive range of self-improvement material including language courses.
Donations Prudential is committed to supporting the communities where Treating customers fairly it is an employer.
In 2006, the Group spent 4.7 million in support of the community.
Within this, direct donations to charitable The financial services industry is working with the UK regulator, organisations amounted to 3.15 million, of which 2.35 million Government and consumers to improve the way they treat came from European EU operations.
This is broken down as customers.
Prudential now has more than seven million customers follows: Education 1,068,000: Social and Welfare 809,000: in Asia, over three million policies and contracts in force across the Environment and Regeneration 82,000: Cultural 149,000 and US through Jackson, and over seven million customers in the UK Staff Volunteering 242,000.
The aggregate figure for charitable through Prudential UK.
Prudential is committed to providing a high donations from Prudentials non-EU subsidiaries Jackson and level of customer service, communicating openly with customers, Prudential Corporation Asia amounted to 0.8 million.
It is the providing clear information and to monitoring levels of satisfaction.
Groups policy not to make donations to political parties or to Prudential UK has signed up to the Association of British incur political expenditure, within the meaning of those expressions Insurers ABI Customer Impact Scheme.
This Scheme is part as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act of the industrys commitment to continuously build on customers 2000, and the Group did not make any such donations or incur experiences, and Prudential will participate in an annual customer any such expenditure in 2006. survey, to measure changes in its customers experiences and attitudes.
Jackson measures its customer service quality through Further information can be found in Acting Responsibly, annual benchmarking surveys.
Prudential Corporation Asia surveyed the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report 2006 7, a sample of its customers in each of its 16 retail businesses in Asia, accessed at www.
co. uk prudential-plc cr to assess the likelihood of its customers recommending Prudential Hard copies of the report are available from the Groups CR team: Corporation Asia to their family and friends.
Tel: 020 7548 3706 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 69 Directors report: Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review continued Non-financial key performance table The table below summarises key programme areas against our commitments, and outlines some of the Groups achievements to date and Prudentials priorities for 2007.
Progamme areas Key performance Indicator Measurement Continue to invest and help people to become Monitor progress with charity partners.
Financial Literacy more informed about their financial well-being All charity partners to complete a post-donation and build the long-term capacity of community evaluation form.
organisations to provide financial education.
Continue to maintain high standards of Tracking systems in place to monitor customer Customers customer service.
To provide information for customers in a variety of ways.
To continue being a responsible investor Contribute to the investment performance on behalf of our clients.
To gain a comprehensive understanding To implement relevant sustainable property of the costs and benefits of sustainable investment techniques across our PRUPIM property investments.
property portfolio in a way that will increase sustainability, while protecting and enhancing investor returns.
Make a measurable and positive impact Annual community spend as a percentage Community in the communities where we operate.
Communicate internally about the value Use a variety of communication channels e. g. CR Employees and benefit of CR, the goals and purpose e-learning module, employee magazines, Group of the organisation and the Group Code intranet site, news updates, videos and webcasts.
Maintain our commitment to health and Total number of recordable health and safety safety management across the Group.
incidents under RIDDOR: Reporting of Injuries and Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
Currently only measured in the UK.
Work with suppliers to maximise the beneficial Total number of suppliers with whom we have Supply chain social impact of our business, and reduce the discussed environmental or CR issues.
Minimise our environmental impact, prevent Periodically review our environmental impact.
Environment pollution and unnecessary damage to the environment from our operations.
Ongoing measurement of building energy efficiency, water efficiency, waste recycling of our actively managed property portfolio.
Focus on maximising long-term shareholder Dialogue with investors.
Shareholders value, thereby delivering returns to investors.
Dialogue with investment analysts responsible for ethical investment funds.
Inclusion in socially responsible indices e. g. FTSE4Good.
70 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 Directors report: Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility review Progress in 2006 Looking forward in 2007 we plan to: Prudential extended the financial literacy programme to India.
Continue implementing the financial literacy programme in China, India and Vietnam, and we will review the pilot Piloted the programme in Malaysia during December 2006. programme in Malaysia.
Prudential Corporation Asia has developed a detailed Customer Satisfaction Roll out the Customer Satisfaction model in Asia to other model in Malaysia for its sales and service process.
Jackson measures its parts of its business and use feedback to improve customer customer service quality through annual benchmarking surveys.
Prudential UK plans to work closely with the ABI UK is accredited to the Association of British Insurers ABIs Customer on the Customer Impact Scheme.
Prudential regularly updates customers on products and important financial Continue to provide customers with clear and responsible topics through MeetPru events, Plan from the Pru, Pru News, the Prudential marketing information.
Magazine, and the M&G Spin-Free guides.
M&G manages two ethical investment funds: Prudential M&G Light Green Continue to maintain active dialogue with our investee Fund and the Prudential Ethical Trust Fund.
Worked with the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Play a central role in the activities of both the Investment Initiative UNEP FI to establish a Socially Responsible Property Investment Property Forum Institutional Investors Group on Climate Working Group.
Change, Responsible Property Investment Working Group and the UNEP FI Responsible Property Investment Workstream.
Based on IFRS statutory operating profit, Prudentials community spend Continue to make a measurable and positive impact in the equates to 0.53 per cent.
Successfully launched the new employee volunteering programme, The Ensure we have community investment programmes running Chairmans Award and created appropriate relationships with charities in in most of our markets.
each of our markets to support this.
Continued to update employees on CR initiatives and the Group Code Update and roll out the CR e-learning module to all new of Business Conduct through the annual CR report, the annual CR webcast employees.
Continue to review and communicate our CR and fortnightly news updates.
We have recorded four RIDDOR accidents in the UK.
Continue to work with business units to ensure compliance with the Group H&S Framework.
Ensure each business unit produces an H&S action plan.
Rolled out UK CR supply chain programme to 55 suppliers.
Continue to work in partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce their social and environmental impacts.
Prudential developed a new Environmental Policy Statement which has been Provide environmental performance data across the Group.
Establish an Environment Network initially in the UK and A pilot scheme for an improved building management system is being tested the US.
If successful, this will reduce energy consumption and be introduced in other business units.
We have achieved ISO14001 certification for 10 actively managed properties.
We are continuing to roll out ISO14001 certification across our entire managed portfolio by the end of 2007.
We are developing our monitoring and targeting system to measure environmental performance.
The Company has continued with a programme of dialogue with shareholders, Further dialogue with the investment community.
Dialogue with investment analysts, CR rating agencies and research Continue dialogue with the investment community.
organisations responsible for ethical investment funds.
Met FTSE4Good global CR criteria and awarded continued membership.
Continue to monitor progress and engage with the FTSE4Good co-ordinators.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2006 71 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance 73 Corporate governance report 80 Board of directors 72 Prudential plc Annual Report 2006
