Corporate responsibility report Our social and environmental policy aims to ensure that social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account in all aspects of our activities.
The Social & Environmental Committee SEC, now chaired by the chief executive following the retirement from the Board of James Lifford, oversees the continual development and implementation of the Groups environmental, social and community policies.
Through this work, the SEC is also able to identify and communicate any potential areas of non-financial risk.
The SEC has responsibility for ongoing development of the social and environmental policy framework, and its implementation, improvement, management and monitoring.
It meets on a quarterly basis and reports to the Board.
The implementation of the social and environmental policy is managed on a day-to-day basis by committee members and a network of site-based personnel.
During 2006, we were pleased to see that our efforts in addressing social, environmental and ethical challenges continued to be recognised by the FTSE4 Good policy committee, and that the Company remains a constituent of the FTSE4 Good Index Series.
Socially responsible investment SRI We acknowledge that the Groups most significant social and environmental impacts arise indirectly as a result of its investment activities.
While the primary consideration is to maximise risk-adjusted returns to clients, we recognise that non-financial considerations can impact the long-term value of companies.
Although general investment activities are not covered by a formal SRI policy, social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into account for specic mandates throughout the Group but particularly our Bristol-based specialist ethical investment unit, Rathbone Greenbank Investments.
During 2006, the Group amended its policy on proxy voting: this now extends to all companies in the FTSE 350 and those where it holds 3% or more of the issued share capital with the exception of Rathbone Brothers Plc.
Voting is also undertaken on any company if requested by an underlying shareholder.
In 2006, Rathbones participated as a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Projects fourth request for information from the worlds largest companies about their greenhouse gas emissions, together with the risks and opportunities presented by climate change.
Along with other institutional investors, Rathbone Greenbank Investments is lending its support to the fifth iteration of this project in February 2007.
Environmental policy Rathbones aims to reduce the environmental impact of its operational activities through a reduction in consumption and the conservation of resources.
efficient resource usage to deliver environmental benets and cost savings will be achieved through using energy and natural resources economically and efficiently, and by reducing emissions and waste levels.
Where reducing consumption is not a viable option, we aim to utilise materials derived from sustainable or recycled sources.
We recognise the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support the UK Governments commitment to do this.
We are demonstrating our commitment to this in our aim to develop systems to monitor energy use, promote more efficient use of energy in all buildings and encourage practices which reduce energy consumption.
Environmental management system Rathbones continues to work towards the establishment of a formal environmental management system to ensure the implementation and communication of social and environmental policies across the organisation.
48 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Environmental performance Waste management and recycling In 2006, Rathbones London ofce continued to recycle significant quantities of paper and other types of waste.
At present, volumes of recycled waste as provided by Paper Round Ltd. are only available for the London ofce: total volumes of various waste streams are not available, so it has not been possible to calculate an actual recycling rate.
London ofce recycling kg Type of waste 2006 2005 2004 Mixed and white paper 31,440 27,945 27,877 Security shredding 9,140 4,680 5,812 Cardboard 3,445 2,325 2,370 Cans and plastic bottles 322 218 Glass 3,945 3,120 2,212 Total kg 48,292 38,288 38,271 During 2006, all our UK regional ofces maintained their arrangements for the shredding of condential waste as required by the Data Protection Act with the additional benefit that this ofce grade paper is sent for recycling.
Several ofces also have local arrangements in place for the collection of recyclable waste streams such as newspapers, magazines and cardboard, and during 2007, a pilot scheme will be introduced to measure all waste in order to ascertain recycling rates.
Where possible, we continue to recycle uorescent tubes, printer toner cartridges, mobile telephones and batteries.
Redundant IT equipment is returned to our London and Liverpool ofces for data cleaning and refurbishment by specialist third parties prior to being donated, where appropriate, to deserving causes both national and local.
In 2006 this included 54 monitors and 50 base units, and several boxes of associated hardware.
Where desktop printers are still required, those capable of double-sided duplex printing are purchased as standard.
However, a usage audit of network printers throughout the Group has led to the decision to phase out the use of most desktop printers and replace them with shared multi-functional devices - 23 have now been installed.
This will enable a considerable saving on printer consumables and maintenance, as well as a reduction in energy consumption.
In addition 92 low energy PCs were installed in 2006.
Over the year, we have continued to work towards ensuring future compliance with regulations relating to the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which came into effect on 1 January 2007.
Resource usage We are again able to publish comparative data on electricity, gas and water consumption for our London ofce which houses some 43% of the Groups UK-based staff.
The London ofce is currently in the process of undergoing a refurbishment programme, during which a new energy efficient lighting system will be installed.
This will use the latest T8 type lamps which are 15-20% more energy efficient than standard uorescent lamps.
During 2006 in London, total carbon dioxide emissions from energy rose by 1.7% from 352 tonnes to 358 tonnes.
When normalised per head of full-time staff, carbon dioxide emissions showed a decrease of 1.6%.
We note, and are examining, the rise in London gas usage, although it remains a small part of the ofces overall energy usage.
49 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Corporate responsibility report continued Table 2.
We are therefore unable to present any reliable performance data or comparisons for utility usage including carbon dioxide emissions this year.
We have embarked upon a pilot scheme to collate utility consumption data for our six UK regional ofces and aim to present preliminary results from this study next year.
Business travel Rathbones acknowledges that business travel represents one of the major environmental impacts within its control.
We continue to believe that the extensive use of teleconferencing and videoconferencing facilities contributes greatly to a reduction in the need to travel for internal business purposes and continue to encourage their use.
We have reviewed our policy on the provision of company cars and have decided to phase out this benefit from February 2007.
As a result, the proposed health check of our vehicle eet by the Energy Savings Trust was not carried out during 2006.
Ethical purchasing The most significant use of paper within Rathbones continues to be in the production of investment management reports for clients.
During 2006, these reports continued to be printed using 100% recycled paper.
Several marketing publications and investor communications including the Groups report and accounts are now produced using paper containing a high percentage of post-consumer waste and we are now using recycled copier paper.
We continue to support the use of Fairtrade products with several ofces regularly purchasing tea, coffee and sugar from certied sources.
Jersey In September 2006, staff moved into our new ofce in Jersey.
The building incorporates several state-of-the-art energy efficiency measures, including low energy lighting and an automatic switching system which prevent lights being left on whilst the ofce is unoccupied.
The ofce has also implemented a new print management system linked to the buildings security access system that reduces the production of unwanted or wasted print items.
It is our intention to nd a local recycling provider and to implement a recycling scheme for the Jersey ofce in 2007.
Recycling gures should be available for future reporting.
A Green Travel Plan has also been introduced, encouraging staff to use environmentally friendly means of travel to and from the ofce.
50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Units kWh CO2 emissions per person kgs Units kWh CO2 emissions per person kgs Units m3 Consumption per person m3 Employees Our employees are vital to the Groups continuing success and there are a number of areas in which work is taking place to ensure that our staff continue to choose to develop their careers at Rathbones.
We are mindful of changing legislation, especially in the area of age discrimination, which has led to a review of all policies and procedures to ensure that employees and job applicants are not inadvertently discriminated against on the grounds of age.
Health and welfare Rathbones is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment in which its employees can work.
Upon completion of a qualifying period, all UK employees are eligible for private medical cover provided by the Company, which extends to direct family members of employees.
Additionally, all UK staff have the opportunity to attend an annual medical examination and a biennial eye test.
We also provide an independent and condential Employee Assistance Programme offering advice on employment, personal and legal concerns.
The facility can also provide face-to-face counselling if deemed necessary.
Consultants were engaged in 2006 to carry out a full review of health and safety policy and procedures, and will be retained on an ongoing basis to ensure that standards are maintained.
The review of the policy is nearing completion, monitoring for risk assessments has been improved and training will be provided for employees with health and safety responsibilities in 2007.
Equality and diversity Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
It is our policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled people.
If employees become disabled during their service with Rathbones, wherever practicable, arrangements are made to continue their employment and training.
Work-life balance Rathbones has made significant progress in reviewing and implementing new work-life balance policies.
The childcare voucher scheme has been running for two years and 33 employees currently take the opportunity to purchase vouchers through salary deduction.
The popular holiday purchase scheme was run again in 2007, with 117 employees opting to buy up to five additional days of leave, but we are mindful that this can lead to greater pressure on other staff.
Maternity benets remain considerably in excess of those required under statutory provisions and the policy has been updated to take account of the legislative changes announced in October 2006.
In 2006, only two women out of the 15 on maternity leave chose not to return to work.
Career breaks of up to two years are also available for those with childcare responsibilities.
Flexible working policies are offered with a high number of successful applications.
Data to monitor the uptake and effectiveness of these policies, together with other indicators of staff satisfaction levels, such as average annual sickness rates and staff turnover, are regularly reported and reviewed.
A new human resources and payroll system is now fully functional and has enabled the production of more sophisticated reports.
Staff turnover fell from 11% in 2005 to 9% in 2006.
Over 88% of UK employees have more than one-years service and over 55% have worked for the Group for more than five years.
Training and development Rathbones recognises that training, competence and development have a clear benefit for the business and encourage personal growth.
We are committed to the training and development of all employees, and will support participation in appropriate programmes, whether externally or internally provided.
In recognition of the challenges that we face in a highly regulated and growing business, a new director of training has recently been recruited.
51 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Corporate responsibility report continued Rewards and benets Employees are encouraged to identify, and to become involved with, the financial performance of the Group.
We have used equity as part of the package for investment managers bringing business into the rm and, in 2001, Rathbones was one of the first companies in the country to launch a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Under the SIP, which is open to all employees, the Company matches every share purchased by individual employees with another free of charge.
Shares are also given free of charge if earnings growth conditions are achieved.
Take-up of the SIP is high, with employees at all levels and in all locations participating.
A member of staff who has been in the SIP since launch and has made the maximum monthly contributions now owns 3,291 shares which are valued at 39,426 as at 31 December 2006.
In relation to 2006, as a result of the significant increase in earnings per share, staff will receive a further allocation of free shares worth 2,310 to full-time employees 2005: 2,060.
In 2006, we introduced a new long-service award for staff with over 20 years service, awarding them travel vouchers and an additional weeks holiday in that year.
A total of 48 awards were made in the first year, with the longest-serving recipient having worked for Rathbones for 45 years.
A further 24 employees will qualify for the award in 2007.
To encourage the use of public transport, we offer interest-free loans for season tickets to all staff on satisfactory completion of their probationary period.
In addition, the advances and loans policy has been revised to allow staff meeting certain criteria to apply for small interest-free loans.
Pension Rathbones recognises its responsibility to assist in the financial welfare of its employees when they reach retirement age and pays contributions to provide death in service cover and benets on retirement.
It has encouraged staff to review their personal arrangements in light of the pension simplication changes that came into effect in April 2006.
We believe that the benets provided are generous and worthwhile, and are valued by all permanent employees eligible to join the schemes available.
We continually monitor this area to ensure the provision of benets and practices remain up-to-date and in line with rapidly changing legislative requirements.
Communication Communication with staff is effected via internal email, an electronic document library and an internal newsletter which is published quarterly and to which all staff are invited to contribute.
It contains regular features focusing on social, environmental and community issues.
Community Rathbones continues to review community activities, both on a group and a local scale, and supports employees participation in a wide range of activities involving both local and international charities.
We encourage employees to take up voluntary and charitable positions, and the Board leads participation in such activities.
For example, the chairman is deputy chairman of Fight for Sight and the chief executive is involved with an educational charity.
Many of our staff are involved with schools, colleges, charities, civic, youth and religious groups in various capacities.
52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Donations and fundraising During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 68,000 representing 0.15% of pre-tax profits 2005: 58,000, representing 0.16% of pre-tax profits.
In 2006, the Elfrida Society was selected as our charity of the year.
Employees were encouraged to support the charity through participating in events such as a Beaujolais Day celebration and Christmas party rafes, and raised over 5,000.
In early 2007, a new charity will be chosen by employee ballot from a selection of local, national and international charities nominated by employees.
This charity will be the focus of a range of group-wide activities during the year.
Staff are encouraged to donate to charity in a tax efficient manner through the Give As You Earn GAYE payroll giving scheme.
In 2006, Rathbone staff gave a total of 46,750 2005: 29,640 through this scheme, which is administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The Company matched staff donations of up to 50 per month made through GAYE and in 2006 donated 22,250 2005: 19,190 to causes chosen by employees through this method.
From 1 January 2007, the scheme has been enhanced with the Group now matching donations of up to 100 per month per employee.
Sponsorships As well as direct charitable donations, Rathbones provides support in the form of sponsorship, advertising and attendance at events organised by charities and arts organisations.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments continues to support Schumacher UK in its aims to promote sustainable development through its co-sponsorship of the organisations Bristol series of lectures.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments has also maintained its sponsorship of The Funding Network, a UK-based organisation which brings people together in a marketplace to help fund charitable projects.
It was pleased to participate as a sponsor of Resurgence magazines 40th anniversary celebrations during the year.
53 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
