Business review Governance Accounts 50 How do we manage and inspire our people?
We aim to attract, develop and retain talented, ambitious people so that we have the resources we need to help our clients and grow our business.
To do this successfully, we aim to make Capita a safe, open, friendly, positive and rewarding place to work.
Within a clear financial framework, we believe in giving responsibility for the day to day running of our business to the managers and employees who deliver our frontline services.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 51 How do we manage and inspire our people?
Employee numbers Our people are key to our development 03 17,000 Driving the strategic direction set by the Group 27,800 04 19,000 Board is a team of some 250 senior managers.
They are responsible for delivering growth across the 05 23,000 Group and maintaining smooth operations and high 25,000 06 service levels.
They focus on ensuring that the necessary 07 27,800 procedures, infrastructure and employees are in place.
Their energy and leadership are key to creating a All figures as at end February productive working environment.
Our people are the engine room driving our success.
Employees by location Their hard work and commitment to service delivery are vital to meeting client expectations and supporting 1 Onshore 93.7% our growth.
3 1 2 2 Nearshore 3.3% 21 years ago we had 33 people: today we have some 3 Offshore 3.0% 27,800, with numbers almost doubling in the last 5 years.
This rapid growth has come from: p Direct recruitment as a result of overall business growth and to serve new greenfield outsourced service contracts p Employee transfers from customers under outsourcing contracts p Employee transfers as a result of acquisitions.
Across all our divisions we aim to: p Attract the right people with the skills to deliver quality service for our clients p Retain and develop them p Manage and inspire them Our people are the engine room driving our success.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 52 How do we manage and inspire our people?
Attracting the right people Retaining and developing people As the Group has evolved, the opportunities available To maintain our growth we need to demonstrate to employees have grown, making us increasingly our ability to deliver consistent, reliable service.
attractive to people looking for a challenging and varied An essential element of this is retaining key people career.
Our success and financial strength also help by and providing appropriate training.
enabling us to offer a stable and inspiring workplace.
We invest in giving our employees the right skills to We have created an environment which rewards deliver quality service, through 3 main types of training: performance.
Remuneration packages across the p Specific skills Group are set at levels that keep us competitive in each p Personal development part of the business.
For our senior people, responsible p Professional qualifications.
for the overall direction and performance of the Group or its component parts, a significant element of their All training is delivered by the most appropriate financial reward is linked to the financial success of channel online, buddying, coaching or group the business.
instruction with the majority delivered by our own training business.
Our core values encourage fairness and respect across the business.
As part of our commitment to equal opportunities, and in recognition of the needs of our diverse During 2006 we published a new combined equality workforce, Capita has adopted a family-friendly and diversity policy covering all anti-discrimination approach.
This encourages flexibility and enables our requirements including age, sex, race, religious employees to manage the demands of their job and beliefs and gender.
Our policies are designed to home.
Capita offers flexible working arrangements support and comply with all relevant UK, European which benefit both the organisation and employees.
and Indian human rights and employment legislation.
These include part-time hours, home working, job These policies are embedded in our training and sharing, term time working and flexitime.
We have a comprehensive suite of flexible benefits and Because many of our operations involve sensitive or put great emphasis on encouraging employee ownership regulated services we have rigorous recruitment through our share savings and ownership schemes.
processes and controls to protect against fraud, theft and other wrongdoing.
Succession planning is a key element of our MOB process to ensure that we have the appropriate Over two-thirds of our employees have transferred to resources in place to maintain stable leadership Capita through outsourcing contracts or acquisitions.
and to guarantee service continuity for clients.
They bring a variety of cultures and working practices It is continuously reviewed by the Group Board.
We have evolved highly refined and supportive transfer procedures and our managers are trained in implementing strategies to develop and inspire people.
The results are evident in improved sickness and attrition levels and transformed service standards.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review Governance Accounts 53 How do we manage and inspire our people?
Any issues arising within a business unit are Managing and inspiring people resolved locally where possible, or else escalated Our structured approach to people development through the MOB review process to the Divisional encourages and creates motivated, effective teams Executive Board.
Our people also have the opportunity to communicate We empower business level managers to manage their views in an annual employee survey.
their teams successfully, and equip them with the We want to foster a no blame, safe, fun and rewarding necessary tools and training in leadership processes culture because our research shows that this is an and procedures.
We encourage an open culture where effective way of achieving business goals.
To recognise ideas are aired regardless of position and shared across success, we run original and entertaining incentive similar operations where they may add value.
schemes aligned with performance targets.
We also have We attach great importance to healthy two-way an annual awards programme to recognise exceptional communication with an open door policy individual and team performance.
The awards reflect the across the Group, supplemented by more formal key attributes that we see as core to Capitas ethos communication channels.
effective team work, innovation, service and community.
Priorities Aim Year end 2006 Year end 2005 Senior management retention To attract and retain the appropriate level 91% 92% earning over 90k of senior management to drive the strategic direction of the Group Overall employee retention To attract and retain the right people to 82% 81% deliver Group strategy, maintaining employee retention at or above industry average 81.7% Employees by location To have at least 10% of our people based 3% 1.6% in India by 2009 Diversity of people To reflect the communities in which we work: p Male female split 51% male: 49% female 51% male: 49% female p Male female split for management 76% male: 24% female 78% male: 22% female earning over 50k p Ethnic diversity 15% based on 48% 14% based on 40% response rate response rate Part time workers To provide flexible working hours while 24% 21% ensuring maximum flexibility in Group resources Note: Following the introduction of SAP HR across the Group in 2005, our HR data is now more consistent and complete and as a result some historic figures have been adjusted to provide meaningful comparisons.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
