Royal & SunAlliance 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility at R&SA is about good business practice.
For us, this is about listening to and engaging with all of our stakeholders our customers, employees, shareholders and the community Our Business Principles provide detailed, practical guidance based on the customer service.
In the UK, following the successful on how we interact with our stakeholders, acting responsibly pilot of this model, we have now extended the service to all our as both a Company and as individuals.
These principles MORE TH N customers.
link to our Group policies and form part of our broader We are committed to resolving complaints promptly.
We continue risk and governance framework and together with our to participate in the annual benchmarking survey on complaints latest corporate responsibility report can be found at: handling by the Association of British Insurers.
performance was assessed as upper quartile across all categories.
Customers Employees We are committed to communicating openly with customers and Over the last few years we have been building a high providing strong levels of service, whether it is a new business performance culture across the business.
It means attracting, enquiry, renewal, claim or complaint.
developing and rewarding top talent, as well as giving people We use clear segmentation to develop products to meet our responsibility and accountability for their actions.
In 2006 we launched a wide range of products We focus on developing our people and have a number of with environmental or social benefits: programmes underway to provide ongoing career development: We were the first UK and Irish insurer to offer discounts for We launched our Technical Academy to ensure we remain at drivers of hybrid cars, the forefront of technical mastery in underwriting and claims, In Canada, we launched ClearSky, commercial wind energy and to provide clear career pathways for our technical people, insurance, and have already captured 20% of the market, Our Executive Development Programme, aimed at developing In the UK, we launched DriveTime, a product using satellite senior managers, is now into its third year.
It has been highly technology aimed at reducing accident rates and providing successful and 70% of graduates from the first two programmes more affordable insurance for young drivers.
are now in roles of greater responsibility, We are focused on ensuring our communication with customers We launched FastTrack, an accelerated scheme for high is clear and easy to understand.
During 2006, we completed a potential graduates.
The programme involves a six month full review of our UK policy documentation.
international assignment and development plan to fast track individuals to more senior roles.
We had 2,000 applicants We are dedicated to providing high standards of customer service and 16 have been selected to participate.
and continually look for ways to improve our claims and customer service.
In Canada, Johnson has been using personal customer In other areas, we have continued to increase the proportion managers for a number of years.
It has been highly successful of employees with performance related pay from 15% in 2003 and 92% of customers say that they would renew their policies to 90%.
Rapid response to emergencies Extreme weather conditions require an urgent response for customers.
When a tornado hit London in December our emergency response unit was ready.
As soon as the emergency services declared the area sufficiently safe, the R&SA engineers and loss adjustors were on site making essential repairs and claims assessments.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 25 We have also carried out our annual global employee survey.
Community Overall satisfaction improved 3% in 2006 and the results of the We operate an active community engagement programme survey are used to build clear action plans to address issues raised.
While regions focus on the issues that matter locally, there are some common issues such as safety Environment and social exclusion.
Environmental issues and climate change have received substantial public attention in 2006.
We have been taking As a leading motor insurer, we are committed to improving road action on these issues for some time.
In Chile, we launched a road safety education programme which has already reached 15,000 children with a As a Group: further 48,000 to take part in 2007.
In Sweden, weve donated We have set challenging targets for 2008 which will result in nearly 300,000 high visibility waistcoats and reflectors for children.
a positive effect on the environment as well as cost savings, Social exclusion is also an issue across many of the regions in We became the first UK insurer to go Carbon Neutral offsetting which we operate: our emissions against renewable energy projects, In the UK, we have provided social housing insurance for over We are managing the environmental impact of our buildings, 15 years.
This year our UK CEO, Bridget McIntyre, took up a such as moving to our new premises in Canada, built to high post on the Governments Social Exclusion Taskforce, standards of environmental construction and design.
In India, we continue to provide insurance in association with As an insurer, we are driving through a number of initiatives: Non Government Organisations for women and tribal groups in rural locations who are living below the poverty line, We continue to lobby in the UK for increased Government spending on flood defence, In Canada, we continue to support the United Way, a charity which funds a variety of social services such as childrens We are investing in award winning technology to predict and development and disadvantaged families.
assess risk such as, Eurotempest, Tropical Storm Risk and our flood risk assessment tool, Responsible investment Our UK assets continue to be managed by F&C Asset We make it more affordable for consumers to make environmental Management who apply their responsible engagement overlay choices through our products, such as discounted insurance for across our portfolios to encourage companies to manage social, hybrid cars, ethical and environmental risks.
We receive regular feedback on Through our partnership with the international charity Trees the companies that F&C Asset Management have invested in for Cities we support sustainable replanting in response to tree on our behalf.
removal as a result of subsidence claims.
Group impacts 2006 Energy Target CO Target Waste Target 2 Energy 124,976 Mwh UK 5% Canada 5% UK 10% CO 56,313 Tonnes Denmark 10% Ireland 10% Denmark 10% 2 3 Water 285,009 M Sweden 6% UK Travel 10% Waste 5,080 Tonnes Ireland 5% Recycling Target Paper 1,827 Tonnes Lithuania 5% Water Target Canada 10% Denmark Steam 10% UK 10% Hong Kong 20% Sweden Steam 5% Lithuania 5% All targets to be achieved by end of 2007 are based on the levels set out in the 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report.
All energy targets are electricity unless otherwise specified.
All targets are reductions, except recycling which is an increase in the rates.
