Additional information continued Economic and monetary environment Supervision and regulation The Groups earnings are affected by the economic and 1 United Kingdom monetary environment in its key markets.
1.1 The regulatory regime applying to the UK financial services industry The UK interest rate cycle turned in 2006, with the Monetary The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA Policy Committee MPC lifting the Bank Rate from 4.5% to 2000, containing an integrated legislative framework for 4.75% in August, and to 5% in November.
Despite market regulating most of the UK financial services industry, came expectations that there would be more to come from the MPC into force at the end of 2001.
This and subsequent in 2007, longer-term interest rates were below the policy rate at amendments established the Financial Services Authority year-end, as was the case for most of 2006 e. g. the 10-year the FSA as the single statutory regulator responsible for benchmark gilt yield was 4.74%.
The Bank Rate was regulating deposit taking, insurance, mortgage and increased in response to the threat that stronger economic investment business in the UK.
activity posed to the medium-term inflation outlook, and the risk that the energy-induced increase in CPI inflation during 2006 Under the FSMA 2000, businesses require the FSA's would dislodge expectations ahead of the 2007 wage permission to undertake specified types of activities bargaining round CPI inflation was 3% in December 2006: the including entering into and carrying out contracts of government-set target is 2%.
insurance: managing, dealing in or advising on, investments: mortgage business: accepting deposits: and Even after 17 interest rate rises over the past two-and-a-half issuing electronic money regulated activities.
The FSA years, to 5.25%, monetary conditions remain fairly supportive has published detailed regulatory requirements contained in the US.
A weak dollar and low long-term interest rates have in a Handbook of Rules and Guidance.
partially offset the effect of a higher fed funds rate on economic activity though 5.25% is not high by historic The FSAs statutory objectives are to maintain confidence standards.
The US economy grew by a respectable 3.4% in in, and to promote public understanding of, the UK 2006, though sluggish growth towards the end of the year financial system: to secure an appropriate degree of largely attributed to a sharp slowdown in the housing and consumer protection: and to reduce the scope for financial auto sectors led markets to price in rate cuts in 2007.
In achieving these objectives, the FSA must take helped to exacerbate the yield curve inversion that prevailed account of certain principles of good regulation which for most of 2006. include recognising the responsibilities of authorised firms own management, facilitating innovation and competition The European Central Bank lifted the Refi Rate to 2.25% in and acting proportionately in imposing burdens on the January 2006.
Prior to that, the Refi had been on hold at 2% for industry.
Four more quarter-point increases followed, taking the Refi to 3.25% by year-end.
Markets expect this 1.2 Authorised firms in the Group normalisation to continue in 2007, as the improved economic As at 31 December 2006, 33 companies in the Group, environment meant that ultra-low interest rates were no longer spanning a range of financial services sectors banking, needed to stimulate demand.
insurance and investment business, are authorised to conduct activities regulated by the FSA.
These companies Exchange rates are an important driver of monetary conditions: are referred to as 'authorised firms'.
they also affect earnings reported by the Groups non-UK subsidiaries, and the value of non-sterling denominated assets The FSA supervises the banking business of the UK based and liabilities.
The pound rose by 25c against the dollar over the banks in the Group, including The Royal Bank of Scotland, course of the year, or 14%, in response to the unexpected at NatWest, Coutts & Co, Ulster Bank Limited and Tesco the start of 2006 increase in UK interest rates.
Sluggish growth Personal Finance Limited.
in the US towards the end of the year, and the markets perception that this would lead to lower interest rates in 2007, General insurance business is principally undertaken by also put downward pressure on the dollar.
companies in the RBS Insurance division, whilst life assurance business is undertaken by Royal Scottish Assurance plc and National Westminster Life Assurance Limited with the Groups partner, the AVIVA Group and Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited.
Investment management business is principally undertaken by companies in the Retail Markets division, including Adam & Company Investment Management Limited and Coutts & Co Investment Management Limited, and in the Corporate Markets division, RBS Asset Management Limited.
246 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Additional information
