Corporate and social responsibility increased office automation.
We also saw an Schroders 11 per cent.
reduction in waste generation Schroders Board and senior management during the year.
Recycling targets were met Corporate and recognise the importance of corporate and in 2006, with 92 per cent.
of waste being social responsibility social responsibility to our employees, recycled or reused compared with 88 per investors, the community and those in whom cent.
We have put in place policies to ensure that we act in a responsible way.
The City of London Corporation once again 38 39 Schroders corporate and social responsibility recognised our efforts in effective waste policies and activities are covered in more management by giving Schroders a platinum detail at www.
Some of the rating in its Clean City Awards scheme for activities undertaken in 2006 are highlighted the second consecutive year in 2006.
platinum award places Schroders in the top 20 out of 1,040 buildings which were entered Socially responsible investment into the scheme, the objective of which As a fund manager our investment decisions is to raise the profile of effective waste management by recognising and rewarding have a far greater impact on society and the good practice and encouraging the wider environment than our direct operational adoption of the principles of Reduce, Reuse activities.
We recognise that the cumulative and Recycle.
economic impact of the companies and buildings in which we invest will be far In support of domestic and internationally greater than our own.
agreed targets to cut greenhouse gas emissions, we monitor energy use and Our investment process incorporates promote efficient use of energy in our research into the corporate responsibility buildings.
In 2006 energy consumption performance of companies.
Schroders 2 increased slightly to 457.15 KWh m 2005: engages with and lobbies companies where 2 449.13 KWh m due to extended air the scope of environmental, social and ethical conditioning and ventilation plant running codes falls short of acceptable standards to times in support of building works throughout encourage the adoption of best practice and the year.
We do however continue to identify decrease long-term risks to performance.
any opportunities we can to reduce our Our socially responsible investment policy energy usage.
follows the requirements of the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Community involvement and Investment and endorses the Voluntary charitable giving Code on Shareholder Activism issued by We actively encourage all employees to the Institutional Shareholders Committee.
participate in the community and in civic and charitable causes.
Involvement is seen In addition to our engagement activities not only to be valuable to the community, we also utilise the research of the Ethical but also as a means of increasing employee Investment Research Service.
This enables awareness and skills and assisting in personal us to screen investable universes in order development which can then be applied in to reflect clients values in their investment the business context.
At its most basic this could, for example, exclude tobacco producers from Schroders charitable giving is focused the investable universe for a cancer charity.
UK employees are encouraged to make charitable donations Environment through the payroll system and, at the end We are committed to continuous of 2006, 19 per cent.
of UK employees were improvement in minimising the negative participating, making charitable donations environmental impact of our operations totalling 257,000 through this scheme.
In and to the promotion of positive 2006 Schroders donated 616,000 globally to environmental practices.
a wide variety of charitable causes, as a result of matched giving and the support of selected We try to balance business needs with the charities in the communities in which aim of reducing our consumption of materials.
In 2006, paper consumption reduced by 12.7 per cent.
from the previous year through As well as making financial donations, Our employees core values: integrity: passion: innovation: employees are encouraged to spend time We want Schroders to be an employer of teamwork and excellence.
Output from this working in the community.
For us, this means ensuring that our performance process is used to inform employees in the UK have been able to take employees understand the strategic aims and decisions on career development, up to 15 hours paid leave per year to provide objectives of the Group and are clear about progression and reward.
Employees volunteer services to the community.
their role in achieving them.
It also means worldwide also have access to a wide range A number of employees regularly volunteer having policies and practices that make of training and development opportunities, their own time to work in the local community, Schroders an attractive place to work and strengthening our commitment to being an helping primary and secondary school which encourage our employees to act employer of choice.
children with reading and other core skills ethically and to be aware of and participate and providing business experience to support in the wider community.
Equal opportunities public sector organisations.
We are committed to providing equal Communication opportunities and seek to ensure that our Local community involvement We communicate with all Schroders workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, In October 2006, Schroders employees employees worldwide via email and the the diversity of the many communities in began participating in the Hackney Schools Group intranet as well as through a quarterly which we operate.
For example, our global Mentoring Programme HSMP, mentoring magazine and monthly newsletter.
We also workforce currently comprises 45 per cent.
14- and 15-year old students in the London use employee meetings to facilitate the female and 55 per cent.
exchange of views with senior management Borough of Hackney.
Already this scheme It is the Groups policy to give appropriate has the support of 50 employees, making and discussion of the progress being made consideration to applications for employment Schroders its largest corporate supporter.
from disabled persons, having regard to their HSMP was established in 1996 by the East particular aptitudes and abilities.
For the London Business Alliance and Hackney An Employee Consultation Forum was purposes of training, career development Learning Partnerships with the aim of established in the UK in 2005, consisting of and progression, disabled employees increasing students self confidence, employees elected by their peers.
Members including those who become disabled during improving their academic performance, of the Forum meet regularly with management the course of their employment are treated allowing them to gain experience of the as part of a Joint Consultative Group which on equal terms with other employees.
We working world and raising their aspirations.
discusses employee-related matters and operate a zero tolerance policy to harassment provides feedback and recommendations and bullying.
Overseas volunteering to the senior management team.
Following a volunteering trip to Sri Lanka in Health and safety 2005, 20 employees travelled to South Africa High ethical standards We promote high standards of health and in September 2006 to help build houses for We actively promote high ethical standards.
safety at work for all employees and have a children orphaned by AIDS, in conjunction Concerns about behaviour or decisions that globally implemented health and safety policy, with Habitat for Humanity, a global charity are perceived to be unethical can be raised which we expect all employees to follow and dedicated to eliminating sub-standard by employees through our internal which highlights our commitment to ensuring housing and homelessness.
In support of this whistleblowing process.
employees are provided with a safe and initiative Schroders contributed 50 per cent.
Training on of the cost of participating, with employees Personal securities trading by employees is these issues is also given to employees.
meeting the remainder as well as raising regulated and monitored to ensure this does money for the charity.
In 2006 over 30,000 not lead to conflicts of interest.
Employees Responsibility was raised towards Habitat for Humanitys are not permitted to solicit or accept any Board responsibility for corporate and social work in South Africa.
Employees will be inducements which are likely to conflict with responsibility issues is divided between participating in a similar project in India in their duties to clients.
Training is provided in Jonathan Asquith, Chief Financial Officer and October 2007. relation to these issues and in relation to Alan Brown, Head of Investment.
Jonathan money laundering, terrorist finance and Asquith has responsibility for all employee, Investing time to help build homes with data protection.
environmental and community involvement their colleagues enables employees to build issues and Alan Brown has responsibility for strong team relationships and develop their Developing our employees the investment process, socially responsible communication skills, while making a positive The performance management process at investment and corporate governance and lasting contribution to the communities in Schroders comprises an annual performance issues relating to the companies in which which they are assisting.
appraisal against agreed objectives and our Schroders invests.
20 Schroders volunteers helped build homes for AIDS orphans in South Africa.
