Supply Chain Governance Climate Change and Energy Resource Use Customers Sustainable Communities Biodiversity Value and Risk Environmental Impacts CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review In this section of our Annual Report we provide a summary We have consistently demonstrated that adopting the of what we are doing to make our business more sustainable.
highest standards of corporate social responsibility CSR A more detailed account will be provided in our 2006 not only has positive effects on the environment and Sustainability Report, which will be published on our website the communities in which we operate, but also helps at www.
com sustainability in April 2007. us to deliver our business objectives.
This continues to reaffirm our belief that Carillions leadership in CSR Strategy.
In 2006, we continued to use our well-established will increasingly differentiate us from our competitors strategy model for sustainable development, which and help us to win more orders, minimise our social, demonstrates and quantifies how improving our impacts environmental and ethical risks, control costs and on the environment and society supports the delivery of our business objectives.
deliver better services to customers.
Behaviours and activities The model aligns our strategy with the four priority areas affecting sustainable defined by the UK Government in its sustainable development development strategy, Securing the Future, namely Sustainable communities Natural resource protection and environmental enhancement Climate change and energy Sustainable consumption and production.
We have identified 12 business behaviours and activities that have most impact on these four priority areas, as illustrated in the diagram opposite.
Our policies in respect of these Making behaviours and activities are reproduced below.
These policies tomorrow are applied across all our businesses to support everything a better place we do, from marketing and work-winning to service design and delivery.
Our commitment to sustainability continues to be driven by our Board, supported by our Sustainability Committee.
This Committee is chaired by our Chief Executive, John McDonough, and includes a number of senior directors, drawn from across our businesses, to ensure that it maintains close links with the Groups operational activities.
The Committee also benefits from expert advice from Our policies for sustainable development Environmental Atmospheric Value and Risk Policy Health and Safety Policy Impacts Policy Impacts Policy We will improve our Through the way we work We will not pollute or We will actively reduce business margins and create and behave, all our people contaminate land or water, our use of energy and shareholder value in a and stakeholders will be and will manage our waste emissions of greenhouse sustainable way.
We will protected from the risks responsibly.
We will seek to gases in transport, design, be recognised as a leader of occupational injury or enhance and improve the construction, maintenance in the way we understand ill health.
environment through and in the operation and manage our good design and of our facilities.
Customer Policy Our People Policy Biodiversity Policy Design Policy We will become renowned We will attract, develop and We will understand and Sustainability will be a key for understanding and retain the very best people and manage our biodiversity objective of our designs.
exceeding our customer promote diversity in a way that impacts and seek We will achieve excellence expectations and develop underpins our values.
We will opportunities to enhance in life-cycle design and their demand for more ensure equal opportunities, wildlife and habitats for exceed our customer sustainable solutions.
expectations by delivering and create a happy and more cost effective motivated workforce.
Governance Policy Community Policy Resource Use Policy We will be recognised as a By engaging, respecting and We will do more with less company that lives its values understanding our community by maximising resource in all our activities and stakeholders we will make efficiency in planning, demonstrates an ethical a positive contribution to design, waste minimisation approach across all areas their environment and quality and recycling.
Supply Chain Policy We will work with our supply chain to deliver mutually sustainable solutions that deliver value for money.
Community Design Sustainable Consumption and Production Our People Natural Resource Protection and Environmental Enhancement Atmospheric Impacts Health and Safety 23 Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Operating and Financial Review two external members, Jonathon Porritt, Chair of the UK By working closely with our paint supplier we sourced paint Governments Sustainable Development Commission, and Julia in 10-litre metal cans, which were recycled.
This avoided Cleverdon, Chief Executive of Business in the Community BITC, the use of PET plastic polyethylene terephthalate containers, who we were delighted to welcome to the Committee in which cannot be recycled once they have contained paint.
David Cowans, Chief Executive of Places for The biodiversity framework for this project involved the People Group, stepped down from the Committee in 2006.
Carillion team working with the local community and also David joined the Committee in 2002 and we are grateful to him sponsoring the local wildlife group to improve wildlife for the support and wise council he has provided over the last habitats and create educational resources for local schools.
Health and Safety performance was strong, with one period of over 500,000 hours worked without a reportable In 2006, Adrian Bull, the Managing Director of Carillion Health, workforce accident.
took up the additional role of Director of Group Sustainability to lead the development and implementation of the Groups The John Radcliffe Hospital has been selected as a case study sustainability programme.
of best practice by the Office of Government Commerce OGC and this can be accessed via the OGC website, Our performance.
In 2006, we focused our efforts on http: www.
uk documents Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals three areas in particular NHS Trusts-embracing sustainability.
introducing a Sustainability Excellence Model to support the delivery of our policies and objectives Carillion is a member of Business in the Communitys PerCent the integration of the Carillion and Mowlem businesses Club, comprising companies that contribute over one per cent using our participation in Business in the Communitys of their profits in cash or in kind to community activities.
One Corporate Responsibility Index to identify areas for example of this is the work we are doing with Business in the improvement.
Community and Business Action on Homelessness to help homeless people find employment and achieve independence.
The Groups sustainability objectives for 2006 were based Another example is our partnership with The Wildlife Trusts: on 11 specific and measurable targets.
In order to drive to date we have contributed 150,000 to The Carillion Natural continuous improvement we set demanding targets and Habitats Fund, which finances Trust projects and provides our performance against them is independently audited by opportunities for our people to work with Trusts local to Bureau Veritas.
Our average score against the 11 targets set Carillions business activities.
Carillion is also one of the UKs leading providers of training We continue to benchmark our performance through for support services and construction skills, which makes a major participating in Business in the Communitys Corporate contribution to the development of individuals and communities.
Since the inception of the Index in 2003, In 2006, around 2000 adults undertook vocational training Carillion has improved its score each year.
In the 2005 Index programmes and some 800 apprentices successfully completed published in 2006 Carillion scored 91 per cent compared to their training at our 16 UK training centres.
the average score of 84 per cent for the 131 companies that participated.
In 2006, we were encouraged to see that more of Carillion is a corporate supporter of RedR, the charity which our peers and customers took part in the Index.
This indicates sources, trains and places people with the professional skills the growing importance of CSR and the potential benefits to and resources required by the main aid agencies to provide our business of being amongst the UKs top performers.
disaster relief and recovery around the world.
There are many examples of the 2006 was the fourth year in which we organised a companybenefits that we and our stakeholders derive from Carillion wide Sustainability Week, in which over 100 events took putting its policies for sustainable development into practice.
place across the Group, helping to put corporate social responsibility and a culture of sustainability at the heart of Listed below are just some of the benefits achieved through our business.
the sustainability action plan adopted for the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford.
Opened in 2006, this Public Private Our success in creating a successful and sustainable business Partnership hospital was designed and built by Carillion at depends primarily on the quality and commitment of our a capital cost of 135 million and Carillion is now providing people.
In 2006, 525 Carillion employees won Values awards facilities management services over the 30-year life of the for their outstanding contributions, which showed that by living concession contract.
our values we can make a real, tangible difference to the quality of the services we provide for our customers and to the More than 90 per cent of waste was diverted from landfill performance of our business.
Permeable car park surfacing filters pollution from surface Supply chain.
Carillion was represented on two of the water and reduces peak run-off during storms.
working groups supporting the UK Governments Sustainable Introducing a green transport plan for site workers, such as Procurement Taskforce SPTF and helped in the development car sharing schemes, reduced carbon dioxide emissions by of its Flexible Framework.
We were delighted to see that over 20 per cent.
our sustainable strategy model was included in the SPTF action 60 per cent of the flooring selected for the project is plan Procuring the Future and cited as an example of good linoleum, manufactured from renewable raw materials and practice.
This framework for procurement has been adopted biodegradable.
This material is also hard-wearing and will by Carillions supply chain and is an integral part of our extend replacement life-cycles from typically 10-15 years for Sustainability Excellence Model.
vinyl, to around 25 years, with a potential saving of some 264,000.
Ceiling tiles were manufactured using around 30 per cent industrial waste and they do not require metal fixing clips, which reduced costs by some 60,000 and makes maintenance easier.
