208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 17 Corporate & Social Responsibility Report St. Jamess Place fully supports all the initiatives aimed at ensuring companies adopt a responsible attitude towards their stakeholders and in particular to clients, staff and the community.
The environmental, social and governance ESG risks As well as providing advice on a range of products and affecting the Group are assessed and mitigated as part of services, a substantial part of our business is the the Groups overall risk management processes described management of our clients money.
We employ Stamford more fully on pages 36 to 38.
The Board has sought to Associates, an external rm of consultants, to oversee identify and assess the significant ESG risks which may the performance of our Fund Managers and report affect the Companys short and long term value and, regularly to our Investment Management Committee.
where appropriate, put in place controls or procedures to Our approach of selecting the best Fund Managers, mitigate such risks.
The Board believes that competitive closely monitoring their activities and introducing new advantage can be gained from taking a proactive approach managers where appropriate will, we believe, deliver to a number of ESG risks and shareholders will nd a above-average investment returns over the medium to number of examples of this proactive approach set out in long term.
Further information can also be found on the Companys website at www.
co. uk In settling life and health claims we take a positive view and do not hide behind the small print.
Our Clients Wherever possible we will pay claims in line with the At the heart of our business is the relationship between spirit of the contract.
We also place great emphasis on our advisers, the members of the St. Jamess Place communicating the characteristics of our products and Partnership, and our clients.
These relationships are services with clarity and transparency.
founded on the principle that every client has different goals, responsibilities and ambitions and that therefore Inherent in everything we do is our desire to be fair and each requires individual and personal advice.
By applying reasonable to clients.
this principle our Partners have developed exceptionally strong, trusted and lasting relationships with their clients.
The Partnership The St. Jamess Place Partnership is made up of some We support and encourage these relationships in a of the most experienced, able and highly regarded number of ways.
Firstly, by ensuring that we offer a professionals working in financial services.
comprehensive range of wealth management products and services that meet the current and future needs of They are self-employed business people who represent our clients.
Secondly, by guaranteeing the advice given by St. Jamess Place in respect of the financial products and members of the Partnership when recommending any of services made available by the Group.
Despite their the products and services provided by companies in the self-employed status, members of the St. Jamess Place St. Jamess Place Group.
And thirdly, by providing good Partnership form a close bond with the Company and administrative support to both Partners and clients.
On average, they have over 16 years service in the Financial Services industry and Partner We also recognise that our clients needs change and that retention has remained very strong in recent years.
we need to anticipate, understand and respond to these changes.
We therefore consult regularly with the Partners are encouraged to continually develop their Partnership for their views and in 2006 introduced knowledge and expertise.
A wide menu of training research direct with clients.
We were delighted with the courses are available to all Partners and they receive initial response from this research and, whilst only a regular information and guidance with regard to changes small sample, the feedback was extremely useful and we in legislation or regulation.
A number of them will are committed to repeating this exercise on at least an specialise in particular aspects of financial advice, annual basis.
16 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 18 Corporate & Social Responsibility Report continued e. g. Pensions advice, Inheritance Tax planning, Corporate I feel a strong sense markets, Employee benets etc, and the Company provides further support in these areas to deepen their of belonging to SJP knowledge.
80 70 74% The remuneration arrangements for our Partners are 60 50 designed such that their interests are aligned with clients 51% 40 and support the long-term relationships we aspire to 30 20 achieve.
10 0 SJP Benchmark Our Employees We rmly believe that our employees give us a sustainable competitive advantage in a marketplace where the provision of high quality service is paramount.
I believe I am valued The attitude, knowledge and commitment of our people continues to be a strong differentiator.
for what I can offer SJP 70 We take pride in being a people business where people 67% 60 are the most important asset and 2006 saw the 50 53% 40 introduction of a bespoke Employee Survey to 30 understand our employees views.
The survey had a 20 response rate of 71% and our employee engagement was 10 0 as high as 91% in some areas.
Some of the highlights were SJP Benchmark that 74% of employees feel a strong sense of belonging to St. Jamess Place and believe that they are valued for what they can offer, 75% are satisfied with the benets package and 83% of employees would recommend St. Jamess I would recommend SJP Place as a good place to work.
The graphs on the right, demonstrate how we compare to external benchmarks.
as a good place to work 90 Employee retention for 2006 is 88.5% and attracting 80 83% new employees has rarely posed an issue for us.
Days lost 70 66% 60 through sickness across the business currently stands at 50 4.7 days per employee per year, which is signicantly 40 30 below the national average.
We remain committed to our 20 equal opportunities policy for potential and existing 10 employees, recognising peoples individual ability and 0 SJP Benchmark merit, free from any form of discrimination.
Our workforce gender prole is fairly evenly split with a total of 288 female and 271 male employees.
17 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 19 Corporate & Social Responsibility Report continued The performance and development of our people is Communication encouraged and supported through a formalised We remain committed to an open style of communication Performance Development Review Process.
Our reward and keep all of our community informed on a regular package is competitive with a comprehensive range of basis on matters that might affect their day-to-day work benets provided to all employees including Pension, Life and communicate items of interest.
We encourage regular & Cititcal Illness cover and Private Medical cover.
We also feedback and managers are expected to have monthly provide the opportunity for all the employees to benefit one-to-ones with team members and regular team from annual bonuses linked to the Companys meetings.
Directors and senior managers regularly visit performance.
Recognising the benefit of all employees all SJP ofce locations to disseminate key corporate having the opportunity of an equity interest in the messages and obtain valuable feedback.
Company, everyone can join the SAYE plan and acquire discounted shares.
64% of all employees are currently Environmental Report members of this scheme.
Management are also given the We recognise that we have a responsibility to the opportunity to participate in share incentive schemes, environment and we will continue to take positive steps further details of which are set out in the Remuneration to address the impact we have on the environment.
We measure our environmental data from October to January 2007 will see the introduction of an Employee September, which allows sufficient time for our third Volunteering policy to support St. Jamess Place party providers to produce relevant data for inclusion in employees wishing to volunteer with schools, charities our Annual Report and Accounts.
or community groups that serve the local communities in which we live and work.
Corporate Environmental Policy Our Environmental Policy can be found along with the Our working environments are created to satisfy Health full Environmental Report on our website at and Safety Regulations and work has commenced on the www.
The policy continues to form the basis of construction of our new purpose-built Head Ofce in the Groups approach to revising our environmental our home town of Cirencester, which will provide impacts.
The policy sets out our objectives, commitment 45,000 square feet of space and enable all back ofce to setting and measuring realistic targets and functions to work together in one building.
The policy objectives are reviewed annually and are used to drive St. Jamess Place has a well-established awareness of the forward our procedures towards reducing our CO levels 2 statutory and social responsibilities with regard to the wherever possible.
recruitment or employment of disabled staff.
Our recruitment procedures are free from bias and We took the decision to move away from reporting in discrimination and we always consider possible Eco-points, to reporting according to the Department modications to our working environment to ensure a for Environmental Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA disabled person has the chance to take up opportunities reporting guidelines, as from the 2005 Environmental or promotion.
report, which was posted on to our website during 2006.
We are also committed to participating in leading The Groups approach ensures that every effort is made environmental surveys, such as the Business in the to achieve continuity of employment in the event of an Environment BiE index.
St. Jamess Place continues to employee becoming disabled.
Similarly best practice be included in the FTSE4Good Index which comprises principles ensure that the Groups responsibilities are companies that meet globally recognised corporate met as an equal opportunity employer.
18 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 20 Corporate & Social Responsibility Report continued Basing our gures on the new reporting period we can We continue to offer electronic communication for report a small increase of 1.5% on our CO footprint, shareholders, so that they can elect to receive Company 2 which is directly related to the increase in business levels.
documentation and to vote on AGM resolutions, However within this gure is an element of Climate electronically rather than by post, which reduces printing Control Levy CCL exempt energy usage.
This has recently been enhanced by the eTree Initiative.
For every shareholder that We use the services of Entech who check, monitor and registers to receive their communications electronically, a produce our annual usage gures for energy and water sapling is donated on the shareholders behalf in an area consumption.
This along with other initiatives resulted in selected for reforestation in the UK via the Woodland a gas improvement of 25% while electricity usage Trusts Tree for all campaign.
Further details can be resulted in a less than 1% increase based on a full time found at www.
For those investors particularly interested in investing in Our fuel management systems provide fuel usage gures, environmentally friendly companies and to comply with which are added to mileage expense claims to obtain total the policy on socially responsible investment by Trustees annual CO gures.
This along with rail and air mileage is of Occupational Pension Schemes, the Group offers 2 calculated using a formula and DEFRA conversion gures ethical funds.
These funds invest in companies to give an overall gure attributed to travel.
demonstrating sound environmental and social policies.
The Investment Committee of the Board meets regularly Whilst our new business volumes have grown by over to monitor and review the performance of all the funds 50% in 2006 and the amount of travel required to under management against a series of dened criteria.
conduct business has also increased, on a normalised percentage basis, CO output relating to travel has only During 2006 we set up a Health and Safety and 2 increased by 9%.
Environmental working group to review and update all working practices within these areas.
We have also been in In early 2004 the Company decided to, wherever discussions with the Waste & Resources Action possible, move from providing bottled drinking water to Programme to promote the use of recycled paper within mains supplied ltered water, which has meant that our our print portfolio.
Proposals are being prepared for water consumption has altered from previous years.
Other ongoing initiatives include the summer of 2006 being particularly dry our increase improving supplier awareness and continuing with new in water consumption by 13% can be partially put down technology to reduce paper usage.
We will continue to to an increase in drinking water and general usage.
In work with our energy consultants, Entech, to achieve the these areas where mains water is not easily accessible, we most efficient source of energy.
A new contract was put in have sourced our water supplies from Belu Water and place during 2006 to supply CCL exempt energy from have begun using their bio-degradable bottles.
green resources, which is an important factor in reducing our CO emissions footprint.
2 Our successful paper recycling programme continues to improve and ofce paper recycling increased by 13% The building of our new headquarters in Cirencester compared with the previous 12 month period.
The is now well under way and it is being constructed with recycling of paper stocks held at our print company a view to achieve a Good or Very good assessment reduced by 47% during the period owing to better print using BREEAM Building Research Establishment management controls and less product changes.
Other Environmental Assessment Method when the building is recycling programmes, which have been put in place, completed at the end of 2007. include the disposal of PCs, mobile phones and toner cartridges.
Cardboard is recycled at one particular site and other sites are being considered where it is practical to introduce it.
19 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 21 Corporate & Social Responsibility Report continued Electricity We acknowledge that in spite of our attempts to reduce and manage CO emissions, there is a limit to this 2 1.55 process, and have therefore begun dialogue with The 1.5 Carbon Neutral company to establish whether it is tonnes 1.45 possible to become partially or fully carbon neutral.
CO 2 full time 1.4 employee Although some expected target reductions have not been 1.35 met during the period due to business levels, we still 1.3 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 anticipate being able to make relative improvement in year 2007 in areas such as recycling and paper usage.
Based on a target of 15% growth in 2007 we have set ourselves a Ofce recycled paper target of not increasing travel emissions by more than 3.5%.
It is also expected that gas and electricity usage 0.120 0.100 will generally remain at existing levels as business 0.080 continues to grow, however the Company will look to tonnes 0.060 achieve the following targets during the period October CO 2 full time 0.040 2006 to September 2007. occupant 0.020 0.000 Targets 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 year Energy electricity 1% reduction Gas No change Travel 3.5% increase General waste 2% reduction Water No change Paper usage 2% reduction This gure is based on business growth of 15%.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation The ethos of raising money within the working environment, for the benefit of the less fortunate members of society, plays an important role in the lives of those associated with St. Jamess Place.
Forming a charitable trust The Foundation was included in the original business plan for the Company in 1992.
The Foundation has two main activities fundraising and the awarding of grants.
20 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 22 Corporate & Social Responsibility Report continued Each of our regional ofces and departments within Head Supporting the Foundations fundraising activities is a key Ofce organise fundraising events.
These range from corporate objective.
The management team, from the rafes bringing in a few hundred pounds, to auctions of top down, focuses on this objective, in much the same promises and other social events, which often raise several way as it does on other key objectives.
Every social event is looked upon as an opportunity to raise funds for the Foundation.
Many of the The Foundations management committee, in consultation Companys local and national suppliers are happy to with the rest of the community, establish a theme support the Foundation and regularly donate cash or goods framework for awarding grants.
For 2006 there have to aid our fundraising efforts.
The first being Cherishing the Children, whereby any small charity that has a project in In addition to group events, individuals also push the UK that is for the direct benefit of physically disabled themselves to the limit in an effort to raise as much children or those suffering from a mental condition or sponsorship as possible from their contacts and clients.
those suffering from a life threatening or degenerative The challenges taken up in 2006 include: a Partner from illness, can apply for a grant from the Foundation.
Bristol took part in an Iron Man Challenge in Nice: a team of 11 took part in the Cuba Cycle Challenge: a group of The second theme is the Hospice Movement, whereby Partners climbed Kilimanjaro: a Manager from our Leeds the Foundation makes grants to hospices in the UK for Ofce took part in the Artic Marathon: and a team of 31 items such as equipment, the cost of therapy and other took part in a Tandem Skydive Challenge in September.
In addition, 2006 was the third year of an The largest single fundraising event of 2006 was a 800,000 funding partnership with Help the Hospices triathlon organised by a Partner from our City Location.
with a programme called Care Beyond Cancer.
This 43 teams from all over the country took part and raised three-year programme is focused on helping patients and over 200,000. their families suffering from illnesses other than cancer.
It is hoped it will not only bring immediate benets to Alongside these ad hoc fundraising initiatives, the sufferers but also change some of the thinking about Foundation has consistently promoted the benets of Gift hospice care in this area of need.
Aid supported by deductions from payroll and, in the case of Partners, deductions from their gross earnings.
This has In addition to the grants awarded under the themes, and had two major benets.
Firstly, it provides a regular largely as a result of the additional monies available to the monthly income to the Foundation and secondly, the Foundation from the Companys matching policy, the Foundation can reclaim the tax relief provided under the Foundation has been able to enter into a seven year Gift Aid regime.
commitment with Hope & Homes for Children, a UK based charity which provides family homes and other We are very proud of the fact that 87% of the St. Jamess support for children orphaned by war or disaster.
More Place community of over 1,600 people are making than 2.1 million has been paid over to Hope & Homes regular monthly donations to the Foundation through for Children in the last seven years.
This demonstrates the commitment to the Trustees agreed to continue its commitment for the next Foundation throughout the Company at every level.
Every pound raised by members of the St. Jamess Place community is matched by the Company and 2006 was another record breaking year, with funds raised exceeding 1,900,000 including matching.
This brings the total raised to over 10,000,000 a huge achievement by our Partners and staff.
21 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 23 Corporate & Social Responsibility Report continued In 2006 the Foundation embarked on new relationships St. Jamess Place Foundation with Teenage Cancer Trust and CIDA with an initial Annual Income to 2006 commitment of approximately 200,000 to both 2000000 organisations.
Teenage Cancer Trust aims to open 21 1800000 1600000 Units around the UK for teenagers with cancer they 1400000 currently have 8 Units.
The initial funding will cover the 1200000 cost of the patient technology required in two Units.
1000000 800000 CIDA is a University in South Africa, run by the students.
600000 CIDA has implemented formal programmes that require 400000 200000 students to give back to their home community.
Our entire community is incredibly proud of what has been achieved over the past 15 years having raised just over 10 million in that time and aims to continue to raise even more funds in the years ahead so that even more people may benefit from its success.
Specically, for 2007 the Foundations target is that 85% of the St. Jamess Place community of Partners and employees give regularly by way of Gift Aid and that in total we can exceed 2,000,000 of funds raised in the year including matching.
The Group will continue its focus on the various initiatives described in this update in 2007 and beyond, and ensure that Corporate and Social Responsibility remains at the forefront of its business.
Kilimanjaro climb Uhuru peak Cuba cycle challenge some participants take a rest 22 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2006 208983 St James RA Txt 20 3 07 08:03 Page 24
