Business Review People People Our dynamic, international and talented workforce is one of our core strengths, and diversity lies at the heart of our values Early engagement strategy at SC First Bank Fusion in Pakistan Educational support Creating a unified culture between two very different In Pakistan we have launched Fusion, an In United Arab Emirates UAE we have organisations was one of the biggest challenges at SC innovative and interactive workshop designed launched the Al Tahadi Educational Support First Bank.
Highly innovative sessions using large pictorial to unite the employees of Standard Chartered Programme which provides sponsorship maps were used to communicate SC First Banks vision and the recently acquired Union Bank.
Fusion to selected UAE national students.
The and the part all employees play in it.
SC First Bank also involved over 2,500 people in building a sense programme gives access to opportunities sought employees opinions on how to achieve its vision of identity and commitment and defining the across the Group.
We have already recruited and received over 5,000 suggestions that have been future.
This was the largest in-house employee 137 graduates this way.
We are dedicated an invaluable source of ideas to increase performance.
engagement effort we had undertaken.
to developing the experience and expertise Harnessing the energy and enthusiasm of employees has Over 95% of participants found the Fusion of our employees in UAE as an essential part proved a vitally important step in creating shared clarity workshops effective and satisfying.
of our commitment to the local community and collaborative working.
This process will become and business.
a standard component of future integrations.
20 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 on the move Almost 60,000 employees Over 100 nationalities, over 50 within senior management 16% net growth in employees Driving work-life balance International partnership in action Enabling opportunities In Hong Kong we are leading the way as one We launched an International Partnership Scope International, a wholly owned subsidiary of the first organisations to adopt a five-day Programme in 2006 to encourage SC First of the Group in India, has maintained strong relations working week.
This sends a clear message to Bank employees to live our International value with the local Ability Foundation charity which works our employees and the public that we are strong either through interacting with other employees to promote opportunities for people with disabilities.
advocates for improving the work-life balance across the network or working in a different In addition to hosting workshops and events with of our employees.
This is in line with our aim to country.
Fifty-eight employees have taken the the charity, Scope International currently employs create a more flexible working environment so opportunity to work in one of 10 host countries, 15 people from Ability Foundation.
that our employees can balance their work with a further 300 attending training or and personal commitments and achieve their assignments in other markets.
potential to perform to their best at work.
