Business Review Sustainability Sustaina Our long-term success depends on our ability to deliver a sustainable business in which our skills and talents turn issues into opportunities Empowering women Building a sustainable business Signing up for clean air GOAL, Standard Chartereds womens Standard Chartered believes that companies In line with our general commitment to the empowerment project, was launched in have far-reaching impacts upon the economy, environment, we have signed up to the Hong Delhi, India.
This programme brings together the environment and the communities where Kong General Chamber of Commerce Clean Air communities, non-governmental organisations they operate.
We believe in building a sustainable Charter.
Signatories adhere to global standards for and local sporting bodies as well as schools and business which manages these impacts through air emissions and publish information annually on colleges in an effort to empower young women successful partnerships with governments, energy and fuel use and air-pollutant emissions.
to become leaders through sports and leadership suppliers, customers, employees and regulators.
They also pledge to adopt energy-efficient courses.
Our employees use their core skills We look at our business from our stakeholders measures in their operations.
to contribute to the success of GOAL.
A shared agenda will create an opportunity to enhance our reputation as The Right Partner and to build our business.
24 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 bility in action Employee volunteering Nets for Life Access to finance In 2006 we launched the foundation level of our Standard Chartereds Nets for Life programme is Our involvement in the microfinance sector is employee volunteering programme which allows an Africa-wide malaria eradication and education a commercially sustainable initiative to provide each employee an additional two days leave initiative supported through a partnership with financial services to stimulate grassroots each year for voluntary work.
We also introduced Episcopal Relief and Development.
We now have strategic alliances a pilot programme in selected countries to reward distribute one million long-lasting insecticidewith 35 microfinance institutions in 10 countries employees who demonstrate outstanding treated nets across the continent by the end across Africa and Asia to channel funds, enhance business performance with an additional five of 2008.
It is supported by an on-going malariamicrofinance credit and build microfinance days leave to spend on a community project prevention education programme.
In September 2006 we pledged that ties in with our community strategy.
the project, which will eventually be rolled out to establish a $500 million microfinance facility across 16 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
under the Clinton Global Initiative.
