Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility is integral to a business that is managed in the long-term interests of its shareholders.
The Centrica Group engages with a business is conducted in an ethical way.
wide range of stakeholders in the UK We also encourage our business partners and overseas, so that we can more to respect and adhere to our standards.
effectively manage the social, ethical and Information on our corporate environmental impact of our business responsibility CR activities over the last year is included in the reports on each of activities.
We thereby seek to minimise our business units.
This section provides risk, create sustainable value for our a summary of key themes, as well as shareholders and contribute positively to wider economic development in the performance information on group-wide regions in which we operate.
More detail will be provided in our The Groups business principles and 2006 CR Report, which will be available policies set out the standards of behaviour at www.
com responsibility we expect of our employees to ensure our in May 2007.
Mary Francis CBE Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair, Centrica Corporate Responsibility Committee 2006 2005 % Climate change Group carbon footprint million tonnes of CO CO e 8.6 2 2 Carbon intensity of power supplied in the UK tonnes CO MWh 0.35 0.37 6 2 Household energy efficiency products installed million 13.5 9.0 44 Lifetime carbon savings for household energy efficiency products installed million tonnes 1.0 1.3 23 Vulnerable customers here to HELP Homes signed up 117,438 116,823 0.5 Homes completed energy efficiency products installed 37,532 28,212 33 Value of unclaimed government benets identied m 2.2 2.6 n a Average increase in claimable government benets per household 1,467 1,542 n a Health and safety Lost-time injuries 1,000 employees 14.3 13.2 8 Lost-time injuries 100,000 hours worked 0.8 0.7 14 Total injuries 100,000 hours worked 3.3 3.1 6 Employees Human capital return on investment ratio 2:1 2.1: 1 5 Employee engagement score 3.84 3.78 2 Employees from ethnic minority groups % 15.9 17.2 8 Female male employees % 29.9 70.1 30.9 69.1 n a Employees with a disability % 2.7 2.5 8 Communities Total community contribution m 7.4 8.2 10 % has been used to express percentage change.
A further 8.3m tonnes of CO emissions comes from UK purchased power.
htm Describes the average value of additional claimable benets per vulnerable household identied by British Gas through our here to HELP programme.
Source: PWC Saratoga a measurement of financial return for investment in employee remuneration, benets and training.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 24 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 CR governance project.
The project, in Teesside, would be throughout this period of volatility has At the beginning of the year, we changed the first to couple integrated gasification been to protect customers by passing our governance arrangements for CR, combined cycle technology with carbon through only a proportion of the full establishing a main board committee capture and storage capabilities.
We were to lead our strategy.
It is chaired by result would be a clean coal power pleased to be the first UK supplier to Mary Francis CBE, Centricas Senior station supplying electricity for British Gas announce a price decrease for residential Independent Non-Executive Director, and customers, together with a pipeline and customers.
From 12 March 2007, we its members include the Managing Director storage to capture the CO2 emissions.
will reduce our standard tariffs for gas of each business unit.
This reflects the by 17% and for electricity by 11%.
Energy efficiency importance we attach to integrating CR We continued to develop a range of energy New social tariff in the business, its risk management and efficiency services to help customers reduce British Gas also introduced the UKs strategic functions.
During the year, we their own carbon emissions.
The British Gas largest social energy tariff, aimed at cutting focused on identifying the areas of Group Energy Savers Report, a bespoke home gas and electricity bills for 750,000 of our activity which have the greatest impact and energy efficiency audit, was completed by most vulnerable customers.
The Essentials which present the most significant risks to more than 1.5 million householders during Tariff provides additional help to vulnerable and opportunities for our business.
In the business to business market, customers, particularly those who use both British Gas Business and Direct Energy prepayment meters.
have innovative programmes to help Tackling climate change commercial customers reduce energy usage.
Ensuring health and safety Centrica has the lowest carbon intensity prole of the major UK Lost-time injuries per 1,000 Serving our customers power suppliers today employees were 14.3 British Gas announced The ever-growing need to address climate the launch of a social tariff The health and safety of our employees, change presents risks and opportunities that will benefit 750,000 customers and others who could be affected across our business.
Upstream, we must vulnerable customers by our activities are a top priority for us.
balance the economic and regulatory Our previously strong safety performance aspects of emissions to ensure reliable As a multi-national utility, providing was marred by two major incidents power supplies: downstream, there is a essential services to millions of customers during the year.
The first occurred when significant and growing customer demand every day, understanding their evolving a pressure vessel on our Rough storage for energy efficiency products and services: needs is very important.
Being responsible facility failed catastrophically causing a and we know that whether or not we and responsive in how we manage gas release, explosion and residual fire.
are perceived to be environmentally relationships with our customers is The crew evacuated but two people were responsible, increasingly affects our central to our business strategy.
The Health and Safety Executive reputation.
Throughout our activities investigation concluded that this equipment Investing in new systems we aim to contribute to the creation of failure could not have been foreseen and In 2006, we made significant progress in a sustainable, low-carbon future, while that the consequences of the failure were installing a new multi-million pound billing ensuring the security of energy supplies.
lessened by our substantial investment in and customer management system the platform, its shutdown systems and Mapping our carbon footprint in British Gas.
During the process of incident response arrangements since In order to develop a coordinated and transferring customer accounts, we were acquisition in 2001. effective response to climate change we unable to maintain the high standards The year ended on a tragic note with undertook work to calculate the carbon of service we strive for.
Returning to a helicopter accident in the Morecambe footprint of our operations.
Our footprint an industry-leading position is a high Bay area which claimed the lives of six comprising emissions from power priority for us.
Our investments in new people, four of them long-standing and generation, gas production and storage, systems, additional manpower and fronthighly committed Centrica employees energy usage, fleet operations and line training are now delivering benefits with a seventh person still missing, business travel was 8.6 million tonnes to our customers.
This work will 2 2 Pricing Investigation indicates that neither underpin our climate change strategy High wholesale energy costs continued to incident was the result of a defective and determine how Centrica can adapt to dominate the first half of the year.
In the safety management system within our and mitigate against the effects of climate UK this forced retail price increases from own sphere of operations and that our change on the Company and on society all the major suppliers, including British emergency response capability was as a whole.
To lessen the impact, we created rapid and comprehensive.
However, in Carbon capture and storage innovative fixed price propositions and both cases the impact on our employees In addition to our ongoing investments in developed a range of initiatives to help and their families has been traumatic wind farm developments, we announced millions of our most vulnerable customers.
We remain determined to an acquisition with the opportunity to For example, we committed to provide keep safety at the top of our agenda participate, alongside partners, in the UKs 18.3 million of winter fuel rebates to and to be relentless in applying our zero first complete clean coal power generation vulnerable customers.
Our pricing policy tolerance programmes.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Directors Report Business Review p05 Directors Report Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113 Corporate Responsibility continued Other than the two incidents described was developed to support our employees activities, which equates to around above, we have continued to maintain and managers, and we reviewed our 300,000 of in-kind support.
our underlying improvement in safety policies and procedures to maintain our performance by reducing the injury position as an inclusive employer.
Engaging stakeholders frequency rates in most businesses and Development and talent management maintaining very low frequency rates in Our stakeholder groups We invested over 400,000 hours in training others.
Our performance is underpinned broadly concur with to equip our front-line employees with the by the application of a robust safety our identication of key skills to use our new British Gas customer management system, comprehensive impact areas management system.
In addition we annual improvement plans, performance re-shaped our management learning targets and KPIs, throughout our UK and programme benefiting 800 managers.
We must be attuned and responsive to international operations.
Our British Gas Engineering Academy the needs and opinions of our customers, continued its work to recruit more women employees, suppliers and wider and people from minority ethnic groups Valuing our people stakeholder groups, and to emerging into our engineering workforce.
We raised changes in society and government.
This British Gas Business awareness of careers in engineering engagement is a continuous and dynamic recognised as the No.
process which at every level from our large employer in the UK Chief Executive meeting a senior politician, Reward by the Financial Times to one of our engineers talking with a We continued to extend our flexible customer helps us shape our future benefits package and more than 10,400 business direction.
The calibre and the conduct of our employees now benefit from the scheme.
During 2006, we listened to our people are central to building successful Our fourth annual equal pay audit showed stakeholder groups through direct relationships with our customers, that the gender pay gap in Centrica dialogue and a range of surveys.
While shareholders, suppliers and the continues to narrow and compares very approaching particular issues from varying communities we serve.
During 2006, favourably with published national norms.
perspectives, there was broad agreement the Group employed an average of Centrica encourages employee share with our identification of key CR impact 33,718 people: 28,489 were employed ownership by operating a number of areas.
We will continue to listen to views in the UK: 5,032 in North America: and all-employee share schemes.
In the and respond to any concerns.
UK 12,042 employees participated in Sharesave and 6,031 participated in our Working with our suppliers Engagement Share Incentive Plan.
In North America We made particular progress during the Employees are regularly updated on our 1,012 employees participated in our year on engaging with our suppliers.
We performance against group strategy.
Our Employee Share Purchase Plan.
ran a successful briefing session for our annual engagement survey measures the group commercial team on managing CR attitudes and opinions of our employees.
in our supply chain and hosted a round In 2006, our overall engagement score Investing in communities table discussion on current and future increased by 2% which, during a very trends in supply chain responsibility with 1 We contributed 7.4 million challenging period for the business, 11 of our main suppliers.
to community causes through a demonstrates the commitment of our combination of cash, time and Helping to shape the policy environment people.
The Group maintains regular 2 Centrica operates in highly regulated in-kind support dialogue with representatives of local markets.
Public policy decisions employee consultative bodies and significantly affect all aspects of our recognised trade unions to ensure By understanding our impact on the business operations from investment it fully understands employees views.
communities in which we work, we can decisions and entry into new markets, Diversity and inclusion develop successful partnerships that to consumer protection and employment The Group is committed to pursuing benefit us both.
We aim to deepen our relations.
We are committed to playing a equality and diversity in all its employment understanding of current issues of social full and active role in the political process activities and continues to support and environmental concern and contribute to support the creation of an optimal initiatives to provide employment for to action that addresses them.
We do this policy environment that will allow our people from minority groups in the by both supporting outside agencies and business to thrive, move towards a lowcommunity, including people with a encouraging our own employees to get carbon environment and deliver secure disability, carers and lone parents.
In North America, Direct Energy energy supplies for our customers.
extent possible, people with a disability employees continued to take part in During the year, we participated in are offered the same employment training, our Dollars for Doers programme, with numerous policy consultations, principally career development and promotion paid time off to volunteer.
In the UK, we on energy and environmental matters.
In opportunities as other employees.
launched an initiative called Centrica addition, our sustained efforts to push for During the year we worked closely with Get Involved enabling employees to take the creation of a fully liberalised European the Employers Forum on Age to prepare advantage of volunteering opportunities energy market were rewarded when the for the introduction of the new UK age with paid time off from the Company.
EU Energy Commissioner announced a regulations in October.
An integrated During the year our people invested strategic energy review that has the creation communication and training programme more than 13,000 hours of volunteering of competitive markets at its heart.
1 Cash donations in the UK during the year amounted to 6.1 million 2005: 6.7 million.
This included a donation of 3 million to the British Gas Energy Trust, which supports vulnerable customers.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
The Group, in the normal course of its business, has paid for its management to attend events at which politicians and other opinion-formers have been present, but does not consider these payments to be political donations.
2 London Benchmarking Group model Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 26
