DIRECTORS REPORT 47 Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND WE BELIEVE WHAT WE DO IS IMPORTANT.
WE ALSO BELIEVE HOW CRISIS MANAGEMENT WE DO IT IS JUST AS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND Our approach to risk management includes the development of robust Business Continuity WIDER SOCIETY.
Plans, where specific risks have the potential to have a severe impact on the business.
During 2006, our Business Continuity Planning Only by working responsibly can we earn the responsibilities associated with our expansion activities centred on a pandemic flu scenario, trust and confidence that make such a vital through acquisition, we also added a particular and plans are being developed to support contribution to our corporate reputation and reference to the Plan, under Governance business continuity for all regions and key our licence to do business.
and Compliance, to ensure that our CR business processes.
Further work is planned expectations are understood by new members for 2007 to ensure general continuity and OVERVIEW of the AstraZeneca Group.
Other areas in crisis management plans are in place for all A member of the Board is responsible the Plan include Patient Safety, Access to functions and levels in the organisation.
for overseeing CR within the Company, Medicines, including diseases of the developing supported by a cross-functional, global world, Clinical Trials, Animal Research, Sales COMPLIANCE Corporate Responsibility Committee that and Marketing, Human Rights and Diversity.
For many years, we have had internal leads development of AstraZenecas CR Whilst other areas of CR remain firmly on our groups who have overseen our compliance framework.
Dame Bridget Ogilvie, Nonagenda, we believe that for the Plan to be with the internationally accepted standards Executive Director, performed this role until meaningful, it should contain only those of Good Laboratory Practice covering she stepped down from the Board at the issues that our assessment processes have Toxicology, Process Development and part 2006 Annual General Meeting, and the role identified as having the highest priority.
of Pharmaceutical Development, Good has now been assumed by Professor Dame Manufacturing Practice for Operations, and Nancy Rothwell.
AUDITING COMPLIANCE Good Clinical Practice for all clinical trials An essential part of our CR is to continue and safety monitoring.
We also have Backed by our core values, we have a range to operate to high standards of corporate an extensive global network of compliance of policies and standards relating to CR that governance.
Auditing compliance is a professionals addressing sales and are widely communicated within the fundamental part of this.
All our managers marketing compliance issues.
organisation, and the Company continues to have individual responsibility for ensuring that develop its established systems for their teams comply with the Code of Conduct To further strengthen our strategic approach monitoring performance.
We are working and with all other AstraZeneca policies, codes to compliance and align tactical delivery, hard to ensure that our high-level values are and standards that are relevant to their roles.
during 2006 we established the new translated into consistent and appropriate We also have a range of functions and roles position of Global Compliance Officer GCO.
Backed by dedicated to ensuring appropriate compliance Appointed in October, the new GCO reports our global Corporate Responsibility Policy processes are in place throughout the business.
to our Chief Executive Officer and is aligned and performance measures, we continue to with the network of regional and local drive the integration of CR considerations into During 2006, we completed the independent compliance personnel across the Company everyday business thinking throughout the review of our marketing companies that who are charged with the implementation of Company.
This includes providing managers began in 2005.
This programme AstraZenecas Global Compliance Programme with guidance on putting the global standards concentrated on AstraZenecas governance within their geography or functional area.
into practice at a local level, as well as controls, particularly in the areas of sales and These compliance personnel work with the communicating with our employees to ensure marketing practice, finance, IT and human business to seek to ensure AstraZenecas their understanding of our commitment and resources.
The findings of the review compliance with our policies and standards how everyone has a part to play in making informed the development of improvement through effective training, monitoring, auditing sure AstraZeneca continues to be welcomed plans within each marketing company, with and enforcement processes.
We also have as a valued member of the global community.
defined targets for completion of all actions.
established local compliance committees in individual markets, which focus on compliance CR PRIORITY ACTION PLANNING CR SUMMARY REPORT 2006 with local external and internal codes, and We use formal internal risk assessment, The Company publishes a separate we have a nominated signatory network together with external benchmarking and Corporate Responsibility Summary Report.
to manage the review and approval of stakeholder dialogue, to help us identify More information about our commitment to promotional materials.
the opportunities and challenges associated CR, our priority action areas and our 2006 with our CR.
performance in these areas is available in the separate CR Summary Report 2006 and on ASTRAZENECA CORE VALUES Our CR Priority Action Plan provides our website, astrazeneca.
a framework for managing these issues in Integrity and high ethical standards line with our core values, including defined For the third year running, we have sought Respect for the individual and diversity objectives and, where possible, appropriate independent assurance of the information key performance indicators KPIs.
This Plan contained in the CR Summary Report by an Openness, honesty, trust and support is reviewed annually to ensure that it independent, third-party organisation.
for each other continues to address the issues relating to Leadership by example at all levels our business that affect or concern society today.
In 2006, we introduced a new KPI for climate change, reflecting our continued commitment in this area.
