DIRECTORS REPORT 9 Business Review BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AS A GLOBAL, RESEARCH-BASED PHARMACEUTICAL and diabetes market value $20 billion.
High blood pressure and abnormal levels of blood COMPANY, WE OPERATE IN AN EVER-CHANGING ENVIRONMENT cholesterol are well known to damage the THAT PRESENTS BOTH OPPORTUNITIES AND CHALLENGES FOR arterial wall and thereby to lead to atherosclerosis.
The most important and OUR BUSINESS.
frequent manifestations of atherosclerosis are heart attacks and stroke.
Diabetes is GROWING DEMAND FOR HEALTHCARE Japan is the second largest country for associated with an increased risk for a There remains a strong fundamental demand pharmaceutical sales at $57 billion 10% of number of serious, sometimes lifefor healthcare that underpins the industrys worldwide sales, with growth of 1% in 2006 threatening complications, including heart future growth prospects.
Specific elements declining from 7% growth in 2005.
This was attack, stroke, blindness, kidney disease, that contribute to this include: largely due to the biennial price revisions nervous system disease and amputations.
enforced by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Heart disease death rates among adults with The growing number of people who Labour and Welfare.
diabetes are two-to-four times higher than expect high standards of healthcare, the rates for adults without diabetes.
In the especially among the elderly, who Europe accounts for 29% of the world market US, 21 million people suffer from diabetes represent a rising proportion of developed and growth slowed to 5% in 2006 from 6% in and two in five people with diabetes still have nations populations: and 2005.
Growth among major markets within poor cholesterol control, one in three have Europe ranged from 0% in Belgium to 7% in poor blood pressure control and one in five Many diseases are under-diagnosed, Spain, with large countries such as Germany, have poor glucose control.
sub-optimally treated or do not have France and the UK showing growth of 3%, effective therapies.
Gastrointestinal GI The world GI market is valued at $35 billion, The growing demand for healthcare will be Asia Pacific and Latin America account for 7% of which the proton pump inhibitor market met not only by existing therapies but also and 4%, respectively, of worldwide sales.
In the West ie Europe by new ones originating from advances in the Notable growth from countries in these regions and North America combined, according to understanding of the biology of disease and in 2006 came from China sales of $10.4 billion, different estimates between 10% and 20% of the application of new technologies.
Innovative growth of 13%, Brazil sales of $8.6 billion, adults suffer from gastro-oesophageal reflux new products have been launched by the growth of 14%, Korea sales of $8.3 billion, disease GERD.
The prevalence rate of GERD industry in recent years, which are changing growth of 13% and India sales of $5.4 billion, in Asia is lower but increasing.
therapeutic approaches and are improving growth of 13%, which ranked 9th, 10th, 11th quality of life for patients.
and 15th respectively in world markets.
Neuroscience The world market value in this therapy area In addition, fast-developing economies such THERAPY AREAS is $108 billion.
It comprises psychiatry market as China and India are expanding the number According to the World Health Organization value $49 billion, neurology market value of patients who can benefit from medicines.
WHO, the greatest burden of disease is in $30 billion, analgesia market value $25 billion This represents a significant opportunity for non-communicable disease.
Conditions such and anaesthesia market value $4 billion.
as malignant tumours, ischaemic heart disease, The medical need continues to be significant cerebrovascular disease, chronic obstructive in all of these areas, and at AstraZeneca we WORLD MARKETS pulmonary disease COPD, schizophrenia, are targeting areas where new therapies can The world pharmaceutical market in 2006 bipolar disorder and asthma are significant make a real difference: was valued at $574 billion.
However, communicable an increase in constant US dollar terms of 6% diseases are also increasing, due primarily Depression and anxiety disorders remain over the previous year, which is lower than in to HIV AIDS and tuberculosis.
under-diagnosed and under-treated, with 2005 when growth was 7%.
The US is by far 15% of the population suffering from major the largest pharmaceutical market in the world, AstraZenecas skills, experience and resources depression on at least one occasion in accounting for $267 billion of sales 47% of are focused on the following therapy areas, their lives, schizophrenia affecting around the worldwide total.
US growth rose to 7% which together represent a significant 1% of the population, and 17 million people in 2006 from 5% in 2005, despite continuing proportion of the worldwide burden of disease: suffering from bipolar disorder across the cost-containment pressures and the growing major markets.
This rise was Cardiovascular CV largely due to the increased uptake of products CV disease claims more lives each year Alzheimers disease, the most common following implementation of the Medicare than the next four leading causes of death cause of dementia, affects more than 24 prescription drug benefit scheme in 2006. combined.
Globally, CV disease accounts million people worldwide today, with this for 17 million deaths each year, making it the number predicted to reach 40 million greatest risk to life for most adults.
Further, current therapy is the single largest therapy area in the global symptomatic and does not significantly healthcare market, with a world market value modify the course of this progressive of $137 billion.
One in three adults has some neuro-degenerative disorder.
In this Business Environment section, unless form of CV disease, including diseases such as otherwise specified, sector-wide market data high blood pressure market value $48 billion, Chronic pain, which affects over 20% of ie not specific to AstraZeneca or any of its products are based on MAT Moving Annual abnormal levels of blood cholesterol market the population, is a significant medical Total Q3 2006 data and the 2005 comparisons value $35 billion, thrombosis including heart need, with pain management the most are based on MAT Q4 2005 data.
attacks and stroke market value $17 billion common reason for seeking medical care.
10 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED Cancer GROWING CHALLENGES FOR INDUSTRY Drug safety The world market value for cancer therapies Whilst the fundamentals of the world Decisions on acceptable benefit risk profiles is $32 billion and growing strongly.
Despite pharmaceuticals market remain robust, for medicines have the potential to be positively dramatic advances in treatment, cancer the industry is facing real challenges.
or negatively affected by a number of factors.
remains the second highest cause of death These include pre-clinical data, preand postin developed countries, and epidemiological Pressure on costs marketing clinical data and regulatory decisions evidence points to this trend now emerging in Expenditure on healthcare typically represents reflecting societys concerns and aspirations.
At present cancer between 6% and 15% of a countrys Gross For more information, see page 46. accounts for 7.6 million or 13% of all deaths Domestic Product GDP, with developed worldwide annually, with these numbers countries towards the top end of that range Competition projected to continue rising, resulting in an and developing countries spending less.
AstraZenecas principal competitors are estimated 9 million people dying from cancer As a proportion of this, pharmaceutical other international, research-based in 2015 and 11.4 million dying in 2030.
Globally, expenditure is usually between 10% and 20% pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies lung cancer kills more people than any other and is therefore still less than 2% of GDP in that also sell branded, patent-protected, tumour type.
However, there are significant most countries.
In common with those differences in the pattern and severity of other companies, following patent expiry, disease between Asian and Western Nevertheless, healthcare systems, whether our products also compete with generic populations.
Whilst breast, prostate and based on public or private funding, have a finite pharmaceuticals mainly on price, since colo-rectal cancers are common in the West, ability to pay for treatments.
Cost-containment generic manufacturers do not bear the high gastric and liver cancers are more prevalent remains an ever-present constraint on industry costs of research and development.
For further information about our growth.
During 2006, further pricing pressures they typically invest in safety monitoring or cancer therapies, see page 26. have been placed on the industry through marketing to create the demand that companies legislation and other means, not only in major such as AstraZeneca do.
The industrys Respiratory & Inflammation established markets, but also in China and intellectual property base is increasingly The respiratory world market value is $43 billion.
For more information, see page 50 being challenged by generic companies The WHO estimates that 100 million people Price Regulation.
seeking an early entry into large markets, worldwide suffer from asthma and more than which puts pressure on product life-cycles.
twice that from COPD, which is currently the Doctors remain the principal decision makers fourth leading cause of death in the world regarding which of the available treatments Industry regulation with further increases in the prevalence and should be prescribed for their patients, but The pharmaceutical industry is one of the most mortality of the disease predicted for the as the economic burden of funding therapies strictly regulated of all industries.
The inflammatory market increases, payers, including governments, pharmaceutical products are subject to is estimated to be worth $16 billion, with over health insurers, managed care organisations significant legislation and regulation, the 40% being for the treatment of rheumatoid and employers are increasing their efforts to amount and impact of which are still growing, arthritis.
Biological therapies dominate the influence the choices doctors make.
concerning the requirements for establishing inflammatory market in terms of sales value.
The degree and Demonstrating economic benefit scope of these regulations vary according to Information about the medicines we have Research-based pharmaceutical companies national and regional demands concerning or are developing in the above disease areas increasingly have to demonstrate the economic the development and commercialisation of and our 2006 product performance is set out as well as the therapeutic value of their drug products.
The processes for regulatory on pages 29 to 31. medicines to those who pay for healthcare.
approval for products are complex, timeThis requires investment, throughout the lifeconsuming and involve significant expenditure.
Infection cycle of a medicine, in studies to demonstrate In addition to safety and efficacy, regulation The world market value is $59 billion, with added medical benefit, cost-effectiveness, covers every aspect of the product including anti-bacterials accounting for $31 billion.
cost-benefit and medical outcomes such as the chemical composition, manufacturing, Infectious diseases cause more than 11 million survival and quality of life improvements in quality controls, handling, packaging, labelling, deaths each year.
World demand for antibiotics addition to traditional clinical trials designed distribution, promotion and marketing.
After remains high, due to escalating resistance to establish safety and efficacy.
These launch of new medicines, regulatory agencies and the increased risk of serious infections.
research efforts also help to ensure we can require numerous conditions to be met in the Tuberculosis remains a worldwide threat target our treatments at those patients who safety surveillance, risk management, clinical, and is newly diagnosed in approximately two will benefit most, a growing expectation of manufacturing and marketing areas.
For more million people every year in India and over payers and of society in general.
information, see pages 50 and 51. eight million people worldwide.
Research and development productivity Reputation Successful companies will be those that The reputation of the pharmaceutical industry enhance their productivity in the discovery has been in decline.
Contributory factors and development of new and differentiated include heightened public concern about medicines designed to meet the growing issues such as drug safety exacerbated by demand.
The industry is working to improve some high-profile withdrawals of marketed research productivity through the application medicines in recent years, transparency of of new technologies.
At the same time, our information, sales and marketing practices, regulators are also setting increasingly high and the cost of medicines.
hurdles for the approval of medicines.
