48 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2006 PEOPLE PEOPLE ARE ASTRAZENECAS MOST IMPORTANT ASSET.
We use a biennial, global, web-based survey to track levels of employee engagement and OUR FUTURE SUCCESS WILL BE BUILT ON THEIR EFFORTS.
identify areas that may require improvement.
In 2006, we conducted our fourth such survey.
Within our demanding business, we know We also have a range of global training The scores, which were widely communicated that if we are to maintain peoples energy programmes designed to strengthen to employees, improved across all categories and commitment to delivering their best in leadership capabilities, enhance core compared with the last survey in 2004 and the pursuit of AstraZenecas objectives, we management skills and help our leaders to exceeded the pharmaceutical industry must provide the right environment for that strengthen good working relationships benchmark in most categories.
This means providing inspiring across the organisation.
These programmes positive feedback included employee health, and effective leadership, open lines of are complemented by local initiatives, which safety, information sharing and communication communication, excellent learning and include functional or country-specific aspects in particular, the survey suggested that line development opportunities, appropriate of leadership development.
managers were more receptive to feedback reward and benefits, and an inclusive culture from their direct reports as compared with in which individual success depends solely DIVERSITY the 2004 survey.
Overall, engagement levels on personal merit and performance.
We believe that every employee should be are strong, although the survey highlighted treated with the same respect and dignity.
the need for further improvement in some LEADERSHIP It is Company policy that there should be no aspects of leadership and performance Good leadership is critical to stimulating the discrimination against any person for any management.
Initiatives focused on these high level of performance that is essential to reason.
All judgements about people for the areas have already begun, including seeking to our continued success in a changing and purposes of recruitment, development and integrate increased clarity on accountabilities increasingly challenging environment.
promotion are made solely on the basis of into management frameworks.
their ability and potential in relation to the We know that simply setting high-level needs of the job.
Every manager is responsible PROMOTING A SAFE, HEALTHY WORKPLACE performance targets is not enough.
Actions for implementing this policy.
Providing a safe workplace and promoting must be identified, and accountability must the health and wellbeing of all our people has be assigned at the right levels to ensure that Our goal continues to be to ensure that diversity always been a core priority for AstraZeneca.
The roles and is appropriately supported in our workforce As we continue to expand and change our responsibilities of the AstraZeneca Board and and reflected in our leadership.
Diversity and activities, we are strengthening and adjusting Senior Executive Team SET in this regard talent management are included in our SET this commitment to safety, health and welfare, and also more generally are described on objectives and we have a set of minimum by building on our traditional programmes, pages 71 and 77. standards that support global alignment in which focus on workplace behaviours and the integration of diversity and inclusion into attitudes, and developing new approaches Optimising performance is a priority, and our Human Resources processes.
During to managing stress and helping employees managers are responsible for working with 2006, our focus continued to be on ensuring understand their personal health risks.
their teams to develop performance targets that diversity was appropriately reflected in against which individual and team contributions our senior management teams.
As an At the start of 2006, we introduced new are measured and rewarded.
All of our indicator, 33% of the 79 senior managers Group-wide objectives and associated employees have clear performance targets.
reporting to the SET are women compared targets for 2010 for safety, health and wellbeing These targets are developed with input with 22% of 88 senior managers in 2005. that aim to drive continuous improvement in from the employee to whom they relate so our performance.
Our new key performance as to ensure that they are appropriate for the COMMUNICATION indicator KPI for safety, health and wellbeing particular work environment of the employee We know that the sharing of information combines the frequency rates for accidents and to support the overall objectives of the is essential to maintaining our peoples resulting in fatal and serious injuries and new business.
This focus on clarity of business confidence in AstraZeneca and their cases of occupational illness into one KPI, objectives is reinforced by performance-related commitment to its objectives.
We encourage with an overall target of a 50% reduction in bonus and incentive plans.
The Company an open and participative management style the combined rates by 2010, compared with also encourages employee share ownership at every level.
As well as face-to-face meetings, a 2001 2002 reference point.
by offering employees the opportunity to we use a wide range of communications media participate in various employee share plans, to ensure that our people are kept up to date PEOPLE STRATEGY which are described in Note 25 to the with business developments and are clear Over the last two years, we have been Financial Statements on page 128. about the impact that these developments identifying and addressing which peoplemay have on them in their personal and related processes needed to be improved in STRENGTHENING CAPABILITIES professional lives.
order to prepare AstraZeneca for the We encourage and support all our people in challenges facing it and the pharmaceutical fully developing their capabilities with a range AstraZeneca has constructive relationships industry as a whole.
The objective has been, of high-quality learning and development with trade unions and arrangements exist for and continues to be, to implement changes opportunities.
Backed by a set of core formal consultation at the operational site and in the way people are managed and principles and common processes that ensure national level in some countries: this includes developed within the organisation in order to a consistent approach to the management of a forum in Europe where the Chief Executive encourage them to contribute their best talent across the organisation, our managers Officer meets employee representatives from efforts towards AstraZenecas continued are responsible for talent management within 19 countries.
success, and to create a competitive their teams.
