Corporate social responsibility report Charter has made significant progress in 2006 in formalising its approach to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR by strengthening management resources and improving transparency, with increased focus on the frequency and content of internal reporting.
Policy and procedures Operational responsibility for managing these matters lies with In 2006, formal policies and procedures manuals were issued the senior management of each operating unit.
The Head of Risk to all subsidiaries of the Company except those situated in North Management has a co-ordinating role in areas of CSR to improve America.
Amongst other matters, the manuals determine the the sharing of best practice, collection of data and consistency policies and procedures that Charters subsidiaries must follow of reporting.
CSR is considered to be an important driver of long to operate in an environmentally and socially responsible manner.
term sustainable business success and is being integrated within The most relevant sections from a CSR perspective are those on: the overall risk management practices of Charter.
Risks and issues relating to CSR are updated by subsidiary companies Code of conduct as part of their regular reviews, and progress on mitigating Whistleblowing actions is monitored regularly.
There is a formal management Employment review of major risks by the Executive Committee on a quarterly Health and safety basis and by the Board every six months.
Environmental Risk management In 2006, the focus has been on strengthening human resources, Business continuity planning and disaster recovery.
incorporating health and safety as an integral part of the deployment of lean manufacturing, further improving product A manual for Charters subsidiaries in North America is being safety labelling for welding consumables, increasing the frequency developed to reflect these companies distinct management and consistency in reporting key health, safety and environmental structure and certain regional differences.
This manual will be matters, and progressing business continuity plans.
These will issued and implemented during 2007. continue to be the main areas of focus in 2007 and are considered Charters subsidiaries must comply with the policies and to be an important part of reviewing management performance.
procedures contained in these manuals unless they conflict The intention is to be in a position to provide more quantitative with applicable local legislation.
data in the next Annual Report.
Management responsibilities Key areas of CSR focus Employees must comply with and act in accordance with the Health and safety provisions of the Code of conduct and the Whistleblowing policy.
The importance of health and safety has been emphasised The Chief Executive is responsible for ensuring that the sections by ensuring that performance and progress on improvement of the manual covering employment, heath and safety and actions are considered as a formal agenda item at meetings environmental matters are regularly updated.
of senior management and at Board meetings.
Any injury that results in lost time is reported to senior management and to the During 2006, the new position of Head of Risk Management was Head of Risk Management.
In addition, since the last quarter of established at the Company.
This corporate officer is responsible 2006, the Head of Risk Management prepares a monthly report for ensuring that sections of the manual relating to risk on overall health and safety performance for senior management management and business continuity planning are updated and the Board.
By the end of 2007 annual data will be available and has been delegated responsibility for preparing monthly to report externally.
performance reports on health and safety, and quarterly reports on environmental matters, for submission to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Charter plc Annual Report 2006 31 Corporate social responsibility report continued Each operating unit has its own environmental, health and safety Case study: ESAB manufacturing facility at Vamberk committee, and health and safety resources are also deployed Czech Republic at major manufacturing sites.
As part of Charters formal health Over the last 10 years ESABs consumable manufacturing site in and safety plans, these resources are to be strengthened during Vamberk, Czech Republic has undertaken a number of projects 2007 through additional training and external recruitment where to reduce energy consumption.
In 1997, the changing of the motors necessary.
Safety is considered to be a key part of the Leanused on wire-drawing lines used in Magwire production and manufacturing initiative and improvements in safety are already installing frequency converters was started.
This achieved a 30 per being made as this initiative is rolled out across the Companys cent reduction, in energy consumption from 0.2424MWh tonne operating units.
of product shipped in 1996 to 0.1692 MWh tonne in 2006.
The overall policy of Charter is to protect the health and safety Another initiative was in flux production where agglomerated of all employees, contractors and third parties.
In 2007, fluxes require a less energy intensive manufacturing process leadership training in this area will be underpinned by management than fused fluxes.
A progressive replacement programme systems built on OHSAS 18001.
ESAB is planning to achieve has been underway since 1995, when only 88 tonnes of group certification in 2007.
The majority of Howden manufacturing agglomerated flux was produced compared with 2,266 tonnes sites will also be certified by the end of 2007. of fused flux.
In 2006 the proportions had changed to 1,933 tonnes of agglomerated and 1,063 tonnes of fused flux.
It is with regret that we have to report the death of an employee Overall energy consumption in flux production went down on 24 February 2006 at Howden Hua in the Peoples Republic from 1.4107 MWh tonne of flux shipped in 1995 to 0.9902 of China, as a result of a crush injury suffered whilst moving steel MWh tonne in 2006. plates with an overhead crane.
Howden Hua was fined Chinese Yuan 30,000 by the Chinese authorities following their investigation Substantial reductions have also been achieved in energy used into the accident.
Improvements in crane safety have since for heating by replacing steam by hot water for space-heating, been implemented in all Howden facilities worldwide.
improving the insulation in buildings and providing thermostatic regulators.
The results are shown below, with a reduction from There have been no other reports of fines or penalties as a result 2.725 GJ tonne of product shipped in 1996 to 0.920 GJ tonne of health and safety incidents or inspections by authorities.
Environmental Energy consumption for heating at ESABs manufacturing ESAB has a long history of evaluating and addressing facility at Vamberk Czech Republic environmental impacts, being one of the first companies in its sector to produce a Sustainable Development Report in 1997.
GJ tonne The Lean-manufacturing initiatives underway will aid in ensuring the efficient use of raw materials and energy, the promotion of 3.0 recycling and a reduction in waste products.
2.5 ESAB is the only welding company to have achieved global certification to ISO 14001, which was awarded on 22 January 2.0 2006.
The commitment to environmental improvement continues, with a focus in the last quarter of 2006 and first 1.5 quarter of 2007 on completing energy audits of all of its major manufacturing sites to identify areas for further improvement.
1.0 At ESABs consumables manufacturing facility in Perstorp, Sweden, there has been a continuous focus on reducing the metal scrap 0.5 from the manufacture of electrodes.
In the 5 years between 2002 and 2006, through a combination of process changes and 0 increased internal recycling, scrap has come down from 533 tonnes 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 to 319 tonnes, equivalent to a reduction from 28kgs to 17kgs per Source: ESAB estimates tonne of product shipped.
All metal scrap is sent for recycling.
At ESABs main equipment manufacturing site in Lax, Sweden, waste going to landfill has been reduced from 825 tonnes in 1996 to just 48 tonnes in 2006.
This improvement is the result of many different actions, primarily associated with recycling.
For example all wood waste is now separated and used for district heating.
From 2003, all the contents from waste paper baskets were sorted, with any combustible material, such as paper and plastics, being separated and sent for use as fuel.
In 2006 this amounted to 105 tonnes.
Howdens main environmental impact is through the products it supplies to its customers to enable them to achieve greater energy efficiency in their operations.
Howden supplies fans and rotary heat exchangers that are used in coal fired power stations to increase efficiency and reduce atmospheric pollution.
Howden is aware of the environmental impact of its own manufacturing processes and is committed to conducting its operations in a manner that minimises any detrimental effect on the environment and to continuously improving overall environmental performance.
32 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 Howden has started to collect internal usage of electricity, Community involvement water and waste generation.
Two of Howdens sites are certified Charters subsidiaries are encouraged to support the local to ISO 14001, being Belfast in the UK and Nogent-sur-Oise communities in which they operate.
As an example, ESAB Brazil in France.
Two further sites, in France and South Africa, are was a founding member of a project aimed at training young working towards achieving certification in 2007 with the remaining destitute people.
The project is carried out in partnership with manufacturing sites targeted for completion by the end of 2008. companies and institutions in the neighbourhood and so far ESAB has contributed eight welding machines, fume extraction No reports of fines or penalties have been received for breaches equipment for the eight cabins and technical support.
Two of permits or other environmental regulations.
groups, with 15 people in each group, completed the course Employment in 2006.
Charter recognises and values diversity in its subsidiaries Many Charter subsidiaries actively support local charities either workforces and encourages them to attract, develop, deploy through fundraising or other forms of assistance.
For example, and reward employees solely on the basis of merit.
ESAB Group Inc employees raised over US$ 125,000 in 2006 for local charities.
ESAB is deploying training and development programmes worldwide.
An over-arching framework for the development, In 2006, a joint programme between Hunter Valley Training performance management and training of ESAB staff is being Company and Howden Australia was conducted to address developed.
A leadership development programme was started in the chronic skills shortages in metal trades industries within 2005 2006 in association with Henley Management College with the Hunter Valley area by injecting a new group of skilled 15 nominees completing the course in 2006 and a second group apprentices into the local community.
Delegates are drawn from all over the world and from all disciplines.
On-going training in Lean-manufacturing is Supply chain being provided by Unipart Logistics in the form of short training Charter recognises the importance of its subsidiaries working courses and, more recently, in the form of a two and a half week in partnership with their suppliers and sub-contractors to meet course for sixteen Lean champions from ESAB factories around commitments to customers.
In addition to focus on quality, the world that was held in Vamberk, Czech Republic.
So far consideration is given to environmental, health and safety issues.
employees from thirteen countries have received training.
Further A Sustainability Questionnaire for Suppliers has been developed training is planned in 2007, which will include representatives by ESAB which is being distributed to suppliers.
addresses environmental management: occupational health, safety and labour management: and restricted chemical substances.
Howden has an overall focus on recruiting and developing young engineers, with new graduates being recruited in countries such as the UK, Germany, Australia, Denmark and France where the businesses are large enough to support regular trainees.
Work placements are also offered, with apprenticeship schemes currently running in the UK, Germany, South Africa and Australia.
Howdens reputation as a good employer is reflected in the fact that the workforce is relatively stable.
The Company has in place a Whistleblowing policy which provides an opportunity for all employees to raise any concerns independent of their normal reporting lines.
Any concerns raised are investigated by Internal Audit and reported to the Audit Committee.
Communications with employees are a significant factor in developing an efficient and successful business.
ESAB issues a newsletter, Lets Talk, every two weeks, which includes community initiatives and staff stories, as well as customer wins and company projects.
Howden produces a team brief every two months that is circulated to managers globally for use in local discussions.
A six-monthly newsletter entitled Project 150 is provided in the local language to Howden employees.
Employees also receive information through works councils and other consultative bodies.
