Responsible business 49 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 improvements in communication and accounting standards.
Introduction Capital & Regional takes its wider responsibilities seriously because Environment it makes business sense.
Proper engagement with our occupiers, We recognise our responsibilities towards the environment.
local authorities, employees, suppliers and local communities is at We aim to do what we can to help reduce waste wherever the foundation of our business.
As we continue to grow, we need to possible and look after our natural resources, ensuring our formalise our approach and measure what we do.
investments are developed and operated ethically.
In last years annual report we said we had made a start and In 2006 our Mall team set up the Enviromall partnership with six had developed a framework covering Governance, Marketplace, environmental specialist organisations including the Carbon Trust Environment, Community and Workplace.
This year we lay out and Upstream, a specialist benchmarking firm.
Enviromall has been the strategic goals we have developed for each area these are conceived to improve the shopping centre industrys environmental highlighted together with some practical examples of each policy performance through a tailored accreditation scheme.
Upstream has been appointed initially in the Mall and Leisure Governance businesses, our largest consumers of energy, to benchmark our We aim to meet stakeholder needs and report on our progress in CO emissions, and they are now setting targets for reduction.
an open and transparent way.
We need to engage properly with In 2006, the CO emissions for The Mall was 21,314 tonnes, a all our stakeholders, and have started to apply appropriate reduction of 993 tonnes from the previous year.
The CO emissions governance processes to ensure that we do.
for X-Leisure was 200,000 tonnes last year.
Each of our three operating divisions has developed its own Our businesses are already implementing significant Responsible Business approach, much of which has been driven environmental initiatives.
In 2006 The Mall reduced its energy and developed through the involvement of our staff at all levels.
consumption by 4.45%, representing 853 tonnes of CO.
In 2005 The Junction, for example, devoted its annual conference to consumption was reduced by 4.2% and between 1999 and 2004 formulate its Responsible Business approach.
Everyone within The a total reduction of 20.8% has been achieved.
Junction team played their part.
We like this decentralised approach which ensures that our common values and beliefs are Workplace developed and deeply embedded in our business.
Capital & Regional aims to be a good employer and to develop its staff and treat them fairly.
This decentralised approach is supported and encouraged by a committee of the Board.
The Responsible Business Committee We strive to ensure our people are proud to work for our Group.
We includes four main Board directors: Alan Coppin Chairman, encourage and foster a culture of innovation, entrepreneurship and Andrew Lewis-Pratt, Xavier Pullen and William Sunnucks.
Meetings team spirit within a supportive environment.
Our businesses now are also attended by divisional representatives.
employ 936 people and we continue to recruit and retain the best talent available.
The Responsible Business Committee reports at each Board meeting on relevant developments.
The induction for new Board We have an equal opportunities policy that applies across the Group directors explains the procedures for identification, assessment prohibiting discrimination on grounds of race, gender, religion, and management of risk, including those arising from social, sexual orientation or disability.
Our policy includes, where practical, environmental and ethical issues.
the continued employment of those who become disabled during employment.
The Group also respects its employees basic human It is the role and responsibility of the Board to take into account rights.
Our policies ensure that all decisions about the appointment, all aspects of social, environmental and ethical issues.
The Board treatment and promotion of employees are based entirely on merit.
considers that material risks from social, environmental and ethical issues are limited.
However, it takes a proactive approach to risk Across the Group as a whole we have enhanced our people policies management of these issues.
and activities introducing some of the following initiatives on our C&R People intranet: Many companies place more emphasis on communication than action.
We are determined that our approach will be the other way around.
We have appointed Bureau Veritas to assess progress, and Group-wide policy on Training and Development we have asked them to make enquiries and provide comfort to the Procedures on dealing with Harassment and Bullying: Board that we have reported fully and accurately.
Disciplinary and Grievance: Flexible Working: Parental Leave and Dependants: Adoption Leave Marketplace Group-wide policy of Share Dealing Our policy is to treat those who occupy our properties with Group-wide policy on IT and Communication respect, as our business partners not just payers of rent.
We want to work closely with them to improve marketing and safety at As the business grows we are committing more to strong people our centres and make them attractive to the public.
management, constantly looking at how we can improve and develop.
The Mall team has developed a comprehensive approach We aim to build and improve on existing customer relations.
We to people and resource management resulting in being recognised already measure these relationships.
The Junction and The Mall as an Investor in People since 2002.
The Mall was also named 29th commission independent annual tenant satisfaction surveys.
The place in the Financial Times Great Place To Work survey in 2006. results of these surveys are improving year on year.
Our approach has the endorsement of our retailers.
During 2006 the PMA Property Managers Association awarded The Mall Best Service Charge Provider 2006 in recognition of outstanding
