We benefited from strong consumer demand in Europe in 2006.
Our European brands posted record revenues and earnings as we pursued our global strategy.
Micky Arison TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our annual report provides an opportunity to reflect on the challenges We also increased our annual dividend 10 percent to $1.10 per share, and accomplishments of 2006, while looking forward to the exciting which represents a cumulative increase in dividends of more than 80 days ahead.
percent over the past two years.
Overall, 2006 was a challenging year for us but in many ways also a successful year.
We remained the worlds most profitable vacation Strategic Growth Initiatives company, achieving revenues approaching $12 billion and record net Our growth strategy has been to establish a presence in a geographic income of $2.3 billion or $2.77 per share.
Our dedicated employees region and then add capacity to stimulate cruise growth in the region.
delivered memorable vacation experiences to more than 7 million As the region develops, we may further segment it, using multiple guests worldwide, and we continued to build a base of loyal repeat brands targeting different demographic groups to achieve maximum guests across our portfolio of global brands.
This strategy has worked well in the United States, the UK Revenues grew 6.7 percent during 2006, driven by a 4.6 percent and Continental Europe.
increase in capacity with the introduction of three new shipsHolland Shipbuilding is an essential part of our brand-building efforts, and in Americas Noordam, Princess Cruises Crown Princess and Costa Cruises 2006, we ordered seven new ships, bringing our order book to 20 new Costa Concordiaand a rise in revenue yields of 1.5 percent from a vessels valued at $11 billion.
combination of higher ticket prices and onboard guest spending.
We are building four ships for contemporary brand Carnival Cruise We benefited from strong consumer demand in Europe in 2006.
Lines, which attracts the broadest demographic offering fun affordable Our European brands posted record revenues and earnings as we vacations.
Three vessels have been ordered for premium brands pursued our global strategy.
Our North American brands maintained Princess and Holland America, which are well positioned to capture strong pricing for their European and Alaskan departures but Caribbean affluent baby boomers as they seek longer, more exotic vacation cruise prices were weakened by a variety of factors, including hurricane experiences.
And during 2006, we reached a decision to expand the ultra-luxury While the 2006 hurricane season fortunately did not fulfill wellsegment of the North American cruise business by ordering two publicized storm predictions, many consumers still were reluctant to 450-passenger all-suite ships for Seabourn Cruise Linethe first ships book a Caribbean cruise, and we priced our Caribbean product aggresbuilt for that brand in 15 years.
While Seabourn has operated small, sively to stimulate demand.
200-passenger all-suite ships, the larger vessels will offer better We continue to explore destination development opportunities to economies of scale and facilities and amenities aimed at Seabourns enhance the Caribbeans appeal.
Among strategic Caribbean initiatives discriminating gueststhe wealthiest segment of the population.
recently implemented are the opening of the $42 million Grand Turk The decision to more than double Seabourns capacity demonstrates Cruise Center in the Turks & Caicos Islands and the addition of new our commitment to the luxury cruise segment and our confidence facilities and activities at our private Bahamian island Half Moon Cay.
in the growing consumer interest in Seabourns unique yacht-like We also have begun the rebuilding process at Puerta Maya, our port cruise experience.
in Cozumel that was destroyed by Hurricane Wilma in 2005.
Globalization Continues An Eye on the Bottom Line In 2006, we continued to extend the global reach of our company Maintaining disciplined control over manageable costs is ingrained in through expansion in Europe and the launch of a cruise venture our corporate culture.
While other operating costs on a unit basis were in China.
flat this year, record fuel prices increased operating expenses by $210 The United Kingdom, Italy and Germany enjoy especially strong million and reduced earnings by $0.25 per share.
cruise demand, and Carnival operates the leading cruise brands in the While a 30 percent increase in the cost of fuel is difficult to UK and Continental Europe.
We believe Europe has tremendous overcome, our fuel conservation working group launched dozens of potential for growth and have ordered 11 ships for our European brands initiatives aimed at reducing consumption.
Those efforts reduced fuel which are scheduled for delivery over the next four years.
consumption on a unit basis by 2 percent fleetwide, thus providing Our Costa Cruises brand is the largest cruise line in Europe and significant benefits to our bottom line.
Costa has four ships on order for We continue to return value to shareholders through our stock delivery through 2010, representing a capacity increase of more than repurchase program and increased dividends.
approximately 20 million shares, for a total repurchase since program P&O Cruises and Cunard, the two leading UK brands, have three inception of approximately 27 million shares at a cost of $1.2 billion.
Building on the success of Queen Mary 2, Cunard will page 2 | Carnival Corporation & plc Costa Ship in Venice welcome Queen Victoria later this year.
P&O Cruises, which serves As the worlds largest cruise operator, we have a duty to be a traditional British cruise customers, also has two 3,000-passenger responsible global citizen.
As part of our ongoing commitment to ships on order scheduled for delivery in 2008 and 2010. corporate responsibility, the Health, Environmental, Safety and Security Our AIDA brandGermanys most popular cruise linewill add Committee of the board of directors was formed in 2006.
This four new ships over the next four years, beginning with the AIDAdiva committee has specific responsibility for monitoring compliance with which is scheduled for delivery in April 2007.
We also recently health, environmental, safety and security policies, as well as to review announced the signing of a letter of intent to form a joint venture with enterprise risk and assess mitigation measures in those areas of TUI AG, Germanys largest tour operator.
TUI carried more than 7.5 our business.
million tour passengers last year and has a remarkable 95 percent brand awareness among German consumers.
Looking Forward to 2007 Through the TUI joint venture, we plan to develop a second brand In 2007, we mark the 35th anniversary of Carnival Cruise Lines, the aimed at a different demographic of the German customer.
AIDA will flagship brand of our company.
It is remarkable to reflect on the continue its highly successful club cruises concept geared toward dramatic changes in our company and in the cruise industry over three younger and more active cruisers while a new TUI-branded cruise and a half decades.
We have come a long way since my father, Ted ship is planned, which will target a slightly older and more affluent Arison, created a new style of cruising with the launch of a refurbished German traveler.
trans-Atlantic ocean liner, the Mardi Gras, in March 1972.
Spain is another region primed for expansion and though our Costa 2007 also is the 20th year since our initial public offering.
In 1987, Cruises brand already has a strong presence there, we believe huge when Carnival Cruise Lines went public, the company had seven ships potential for expansion exists as it is one of the fastest-growing areas and $150 million in income.
Today, Carnival Corporation & plc is a global of the European vacation industry.
To capitalize on this, we signed a company with a portfolio of industry-leading brands that produce $2.3 letter of intent to form a new joint venture with Orizonia Corporacin, billion of earnings from its 81-ship fleet.
Based on our current order Spains largest travel company which operates its own two-ship fleet book, we will have approximately 100 ships in service by 2011. under its Iberojet division.
The new joint venture would eventually be I take this opportunity to thank our 75,000 employees worldwide comprised of a multi-ship fleet aimed at a different demographic than for their hard work and dedication in creating unforgettable vacation the premium market that Costa currently serves.
I also want to thank our board of directors 2006 marked our entry into China, where there is great potential.
for their support during the past year.
Long-standing government travel restrictions have been relaxed, giving I would especially like to thank retiring board member Kirk Lanterman more Chinese the ability to travel abroad.
As Chinas economy matures for his dedicated service over the past 17 years as chairman and CEO and its middle class expands, the number of Chinese travelers is of Holland America Line.
Kirk was one of the pioneers of Alaska cruising expected to grow and we intend to convert those tourists into cruisers.
and his hard work was instrumental in making Holland America Line The Costa China initiative was launched in July 2006 with five-day the leading premium cruise brand.
cruises from Shanghai aboard Costa Allegra, which was refurbished to I also would like to acknowledge the contributions of Deborah serve Chinese and Asian tastes.
Although we anticipated challenges Natansohn, president of Seabourn Cruise Line, who died suddenly and entering China, the program has developed more slowly than expected unexpectedly late last year.
Debbie was a very talented executive, and during 2006.
We have made a number of modifications to the program her leadership, creativity and humor will be missed.
for 2007, including changing itineraries and marketing the China cruises Finally, we express our gratitude to our shareholders for their to other Asian countries and Europe.
We believe these changes will continued support.
And, on behalf of our shareholders, shoreside result in improved performance for the China Asia program in 2007. staff and shipboard crew, we thank the 7 million-plus guests who chose to spend their vacations with us last year.
We hope to see An Industry Leader you again soon.
While we are proud of our leading role in the cruise industry, we also Sincerely, strive to provide leadership on environmental issues and social responsibility.
In 2006, all of our operating companies successfully achieved implementation and certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO 14001 standard.
These certifications Micky Arison recognize our commitment to management of our environmental Chairman and CEO processes, products and services in our effort to minimize our environmental footprint.
February 14, 2007 Carnival Corporation & plc | page 3
