Corporate Responsibility How we manage Corporate Responsibility CR Hammerson CR Group Seven working groups Chair Occupiers customers John Richards Suppliers Chief Executive Local communities Employees Deputy Chair Financial stakeholders Jon Emery Environmental Managing Director UK Development Communications Hammerson creates environments in which people live, work and spend We have set three to fi five-year objectives, alongside annual targets.
What we build and how we build it has a lasting These targets and objectives are presented to the Board.
Responsibility impact on the environment and the local community.
A commitment for managing and reporting on those targets has been allocated to corporate responsibility is therefore integral both to Hammersons to senior executives.
approach to business and its management of risk and we are Subsidiary working groups have been formed for key impact areas determined to demonstrate continuous improvement in this area.
Individuals throughout the organisation have Hammerson formally commits to a corporate responsibility and taken personal responsibility for implementing procedures and achieving sustainability strategy which is encapsulated within the Hammerson specifi c targets and overall group objectives.
However, the achievement Corporate Responsibility Report published in March 2007.
The group of our CR objectives is a team effort and the groups work together, recognises its responsibilities to the many organisations, communities sharing their experience and thinking.
and individuals affected by its operations.
The group sets high standards for the way in which it conducts its business and manages its relationship with customers and suppliers.
In addition, the group has clear policies Hammerson CR Group responsibilities designed to protect the environment and provide support to the local Occupiers and customers Head of Hammerson Management Services communities in which it operates.
All staff are encouraged to act in a way Suppliers Director of Project Management which supports Hammersons aims and objectives, to maximise their own Local communities Head of Sustainability potential and to participate in the groups charitable activities.
Employees Director of Human Resources Financial stakeholders Director of Corporate Affairs Environment Managing Director UK Development Hammersons Corporate Responsibility Communications Director of Corporate Affairs CR Group We have started a programme whereby all members of Hammerson Hammersons multi-disciplinary CR Group is chaired by Hammersons staff will be given specifi c responsibilities for our CR procedures.
These Chief Executive and is responsible for overseeing the groups CR will be reviewed as part of individuals annual appraisals.
management framework and ensuring that our performance, approach Our commitment to CR is demonstrated by our recent creation of and philosophy are consistent with best practice.
a new position of Head of Sustainability.
This executive has assumed The group meets on a quarterly basis, gives regular reports to the Board responsibility for formulating and implementing the groups strategy and ensures that progress against targets is formally reviewed annually.
The group has seven key areas of focus: occupiers and customers: suppliers: local communities: employees: fi financial stakeholders: environmental: and communications.
Annual Report 2006 49 [Section 05] Corporate Responsibility continued Objectives and targets In 2006, our CR objectives were revised and communicated to our staff by John Richards, Chief Executive.
To enhance long term asset value through sustainable solutions To increase the attractiveness of our buildings and services to customers, tenants and investors To lead the property sector through sustainable innovation To engender a culture of sustainability within out people To ensure that we maintain a profi table business proposition into the future A total of 34 targets for 2006 were set across the groups areas of responsibility and a detailed review of our progress in achieving them is given in Hammersons 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report.
Below are examples of progress made with some of those targets.
Target: To raise awareness of standards to be achieved for both property This target has been achieved.
A workshop was held in design and construction through workshops for project managers.
Bristol with Hammersons project management team to discuss the fi findings of the audit reports on sustainability and to discuss its importance to Hammersons business.
Target: To switch all shopping centre landlord-purchased energy due for This target has been achieved.
All shopping centre landlordrenewal in 2006 to a green tariff and communicate this to retailers.
purchased energy was switched to green energy during the year.
Target: To investigate the potential for use of solar panels to power car park This target has been largely achieved.
During 2006 we appointed lighting, pumps and signage across Hammersons retail parks portfolio.
advisers to undertake a feasibility study across the portfolio for the installation of solar-powered lighting.
As a result of this, all new schemes will include such lighting.
Our retail park scheme in Thanet is being used as a pilot.
Target: All shopping centres within the Hammerson portfolio to engage in a This target was achieved.
Among initiatives undertaken during the minimum of one education programme or local initiative in 2006. year, Brent Cross shopping centre, London, engaged in 150 days of educational programmes and local initiatives, including a mentoring programme with Barnet Education and Business Partnership.
The Oracle shopping centre, Reading, supported 13 local schools.
and colleges in educational programmes, including the BBC Reading and Writing campaign to encourage reading and writing for all ages.
Queensgate shopping centre, Peterborough, formed an association with the Cambridge and Peterborough Learning Partnership to raise the standards of adult numeracy and literacy through the Skills for Life initiative.
In addition to ensuring that progress was made in achieving the groups 2006 targets, Hammersons CR Group has formulated targets for 2007 and three-to fi five-year objectives for each area of the business.
These are also outlined in the full CR report.
50 Annual Report 2006 In 2006 16 of our targets were 100% completed, four were Hammerson joined the London Stock Exchanges Corporate Responsibility 75% completed and one 50% completed.
com en-gb products irs cre CRE.
This online tool enables us to complete and submit a single questionnaire on our corporate governance, economic, environmental and social performance, and gives investors a single Overview of progress against site where they can locate and analyse company data.
Hammerson no our 2006 CR targets longer participates in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as this is not encompassed by the CRE scheme.
20 Hammerson is a founding member of the Corporate Benchmarking Service, formerly known as the Property Environment Group PEG.
16 We participate in the annual PEG benchmarking survey undertaken by 15 Upstream, a strategic sustainability consultancy with a specialist focus on the property sector.
In 2006 Hammerson came fifth out of nine near peers real estate companies, achieving an overall average score of 72%.
Hammerson also continues to participate in Upstreams 10 annual Environmental Benchmarking of Shopping Centres survey.
6 5 4 Hammersons 2006 CR Report 4 3 Full details of our approach to corporate responsibility, our activities 1 and performance during 2006, together with our targets, are given in 0 our 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report.
The report is available on our 0 25 50 75 100 n a website, www.
Hard copies of the report and additional % of target achieved information on the groups CR activities are available by contacting: Source: Upstream 2007 Katharine Sharkey Investor Relations Manager Tel 44 0 20 7887 1000 External benchmarking Fax 44 0 20 7887 1018 We undertake independent research to record and monitor the perceptions of our key stakeholders including customers and occupiers, suppliers, staff, business partners and investors.
This enables us to improve our working practices and relationships.
We also work with external consultants who give us strategic and technical advice on current CR issues.
Hammerson participates in and has received accreditation from a number of external surveys including FTSE4Good, Business in the Community BITC, Corporate Responsibility Index and Investors in People.
