80 Corporate Responsibility We see Corporate Responsibility CR as the driver for our business to achieve the balance between CR Committee its environmental, social and economic responsibilities and we recently published our third CR Committee Chair Chief Operating officer of Land Securities Trillium report which is available on our website.
Board representative Group Chief Executive Customers Head of Property and Occupier Services In part, the focus on CR issues over recent years has been driven by Government regulation, but Community Retail Operations Manager and equally there has been a growing level of shareholder and other stakeholder interest in the nonCommunity Liaison officer financial aspects of a companys performance.
We also recognise that an effective CR programme Employees Group HR Director can help to identify and manage business risks, generate operational competitiveness through Environment Assistant Director of Environment resource efficiencies, and contribute towards enhancing our reputation and achieving differentiation Health and safety Director of Health and Safety and in the market place.
The nature of Land Securities business is such that we are closely aligned with Environment the communities within which we operate.
In designing, specifying and managing our developments Suppliers Head of Group Procurement and property portfolio, be they retail or ofces, we need to have regard to their impact on the local Investors and Communication Director of Corporate Communication environment.
We want to create spaces the public enjoy using and employees are delighted to work Risk Management in.
We want to contribute to our local communities, notably in the areas of education and local and Internal Audit Business Standards Manager enterprise, and we want our 1,800 staff across the country to be proud to work for Land Securities.
To help achieve our objectives we have established a representative GroupWe therefore want to achieve our vision and objectives within a framework of high standards that wide CR Committee, which seeks to support and provide a framework for the takes account of the needs of all of our stakeholders and our impact on the environment and range of CR initiatives undertaken nationally by all parts of our business.
The communities in which we operate.
CR Committee comprises senior representatives from each area of the business and is chaired by the Chief Operating officer of Land Securities Trillium.
The Group Chief Executive is a member of the Committee.
Stakeholder engagement The CR Committee also establishes and publishes annual targets for each of the seven streams of activity we have identied as being key to Land Securities CR performance: Customers Health and safety Community Suppliers Employees Investors Environment Our response to CR is organised by these seven work streams as we believe this stakeholder interest group structure best reects the range of issues for a property business and how Land Securities is structured.
It also allows us to place clear responsibility for each group at Senior Management level.
We encourage active and consistent communication with each stakeholder group which we achieve through satisfaction surveys, benchmarking exercises, audits, conferences, one to one meetings, participation in industry working groups, the corporate website, and reporting.
Our inclusion in various indices eg Dow Jones, FTSE4Good and Global 100 Most Sustainable Companies: demonstrates that we continue to lead the property industry with our CR practices and activities.
Social, ethical and environmental SEE risks As a capital intensive company with a relatively low number of employees, we have identied health and safety, climate change and business ethics as the key SEE risks relevant to our business.
We report on our approach to health and safety on page 83.
In respect to the environment and in particular climate change we report on our activities on page 84 as well as in the business unit reviews in the OFR.
Employees The Group has in place a number of policies and procedures including diversity and equal opportunities including equal opportunities for disabled employees as well as the business ethics policy described on page 82, all of which are published on the Groups website.
We comment in detail upon our people and our people strategy on page 34.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 The Bridges, Sunderland This invigorating development has given Sunderland a new lease of life and attracts over 450,000 shoppers a week.
It is cleaned every day with environmentally friendly products.
450,000 visits a weekthats a lot of people to clean up after m m o C s r e i l p p u S y t e f a s t s n e e e d m y o n 82 Corporate Responsibility continued The Group has in place a statement of business principles and a business ethics policy, which can be found on our website.
It also has a whistle-blowing procedure which incorporates a telephone hotline and e-mail facility.
Employees are provided with the business ethics policy on appointment together with guidance as to raising any concerns in respect to the business.
Every six months managers across the business are audited as to compliance with the Groups policies in this area and in the 12 months under review there were no notied infringements.
To ensure that employees remain aware of the policies and procedures in the area from time to time we specically communicate to them using the intranet, staff notice e-mail and weekly news update CR Group model communication channels.
Community Land Securities makes grants and donations to charities and community groups through third party managed charitable funds and its Group charity committee which together have donated over 600,000.
We estimate that through our 30 shopping centres we contribute over 500,000 of free oor space to charities and other organisations to promote their activities.
Customers Performance highlights The following examples of performance highlights capture our achievements against 2004 05 targets and further progress in the period 2005 06.
They also serve to illustrate the breadth and range of activities addressed under our CR programme.
We achieved second place ranking in the 2005 Property Environment Group benchmark and were listed in the FTSE4Good and SAM Dow Jones Indices Environmental Impact Assessments were produced on all major development projects A biodiversity survey was undertaken across the entire DWP estate no other property company Customers Client and occupier satisfaction has achieved this across its portfolio Health and safety Recycling improved by 21% against a target of 10% Health and safety training A process was established to trace back to source all timber used on major developments and Accident reporting DWP projects Risk assessment and audits Minimum CR standards were introduced into all supplier selection and evaluation documentation Employees Communication and engagement Community Liaison Managers were appointed on development projects Rewards and recognition There was a major increase in the provision of homeworking facilities to Land Securities staff Learning and development We became an active member of the Employers Forum on Disability Succession planning and talent management Diversity Future outlook key challenges Suppliers All businesses face the inevitable challenge of seeking continuous improvement across their Investing in suppliers Sharing knowledge activities.
Land Securities is no different.
It has, however, gained invaluable experience from its focus Health and safety and the environment on the environment where, over the years, through a process of incremental steps and target setting, Monitoring supplier performance it now leads the property sector in environmental management.
Community Learning and development This approach has now been adopted across all the CR work streams, where each work stream Charitable funds Employee volunteering manager has been empowered to agree and set targets which will provide the opportunity for Community consultation further improvements across our business.
And we have learnt from experience.
The first targets set Community communication were, with the benefit of hindsight, over-ambitious and for that reason we needed to extend the Investors timeframe in which to achieve them.
Our new targets for the year to 31 March 2007 are different in Awards two ways.
While fewer in number, they are more focused in output and therefore more measurable.
Shareholder analysis We look forward to being able to report positively on our achievements next year.
Analysis of investors meetings CR governance structures Environment While we can demonstrate that we are making good progress across many areas of our business External benchmarking activities we still struggle with elements of supply chain management.
As a business we have to Environmental assessments balance shareholder value against the economic and practical aspects of supply chain management.
Recycling and waste management In our CR Report we report on the progress we are making in the major impact areas of construction, Energy use, CO2 emissions Water use, environmental innovation procurement and Land Securities Trillium key supplier chain management.
We are looking at how Land Securities Annual Report 2006 n l o a r p i v h m n E t E l a e H s r o t s e v n I y t i n u 83 Corporate Responsibility continued and when we should apply similar supply chain evaluation criteria more widely across our investment portfolio.
We have continued our focus on the customer, which brings the challenge of providing new and better customer focused services and products.
It is our people who have anticipated and responded to this on-going challenge.
And in return, we continue and will continue to seek to provide career and personal development opportunities to ensure that we attract and retain the best people in the industry, who in turn contribute to our continued success.
Health and safety The Groups health and safety policy is published on our intranet and website.
We produce a health and safety plan every year containing measurable objectives and report progress against these objectives to the Board every month.
Health and safety performance is included in the Groups balanced scorecard measurement approach.
We increased the number of full-time employees in the health, safety and environment team from 23 to 28.
The team now has 16 health and safety managers, two environmental managers and 10 health and safety trainers.
We achieved Stage One of the occupational health and safety management system OHSAS 18001 for the DWP estate and are seeking full accreditation.
The Health and Safety Executive asked to feature our approach to health and safety as a best-practice case study, recognising Land Securities as a leader.
We have also been recognised in the Top 10 FTSE100 companies for reporting health and safety in Annual Reports and for achieving targets.
There were 295 notiable incidents under the RIDDOR regulations 2005: 187.
This was a significant increase over the previous year due to new accident reporting processes, the introduction of a company-wide accident reporting database, additional property outsourcing contracts and expansion of our investment portfolio.
Key performance indicator The key performance indicator for health and safety is to ensure that we receive less than five health and safety improvement and prohibition notices a year.
We have received none in the 2006 reporting period.
During 2006, health and safety will be introduced as a personal key performance indicator for all related managers.
Health and safety training Occupational health and safety training to NEBOSH and IOSH standard was provided to 78 employees.
In addition, we trained 1,163 managers and staff, making a total of 1,241 employees receiving health and safety training.
We revised the health and safety induction programme for new starters and plan to provide this training via an interactive platform in 2006.
Accident reporting We introduced a new system, SOLAR Safety On-line Accident and Reporting database, to record all health and safety incidents, improving reporting and management.
SOLAR has been trialled successfully in the DWP estate and will be extended to the rest of the business during 2006.
We received a Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Gold Award for our health and safety management systems and for the development of SOLAR.
Risk assessment and audits In 2005, we carried out 340 risk assessments and health and safety audits across our investment and development portfolios.
These assess compliance with legislation scores across the portfolio were between 97100%.
We also conducted health and safety audits across Land Securities Trilliums contracts in line with contractual requirements.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 84 Corporate Responsibility continued Construction skills certication scheme In 2005, we set out to ensure all staff involved in construction related activities were accredited under the Construction Skills Certication Scheme CSCS.
We hope that this scheme will improve the competence of the construction industry, make it possible to measure the competence of site-based staff and make comparisons between contractors.
After 2008 we will only work with CSCS certied contractors.
Environment Environmental management systems The Group environment policy is published on its intranet and website.
We introduced an upgraded environmental management system EMS, across the entire Group.
In September 2005 this was certied to Phase IV of the British Standard BS8555, which helped us win the 2005 Liveable City award for environmental management.
We are now seeking accreditation to ISO14001, which is the standard we have achieved across the DWP contract at around 1,800 sites one of the largest global certications to date.
Asbestos We have established an in-house asbestos management team which conducted 2,256 surveys across our property management and property outsourcing portfolios in 2006 2005: 1,200.
Energy and waste management We have a comprehensive energy management system in place which we use to identify opportunities to reduce energy across our managed portfolios.
We gather and report our energy usage across nearly 2,000 buildings, the results of which are published annually in the autumn on our website.
CO emissions 2 Electric car We are the only property company participating in the voluntary UK Emissions Trading Scheme with a multi-site portfolio and beat our reductions target for the fourth consecutive year and in 2005 reduced the emissions covered by the scheme by 17% Our G-Wiz electric car will replace courier We participated in a programme of energy audits subsidised by the Carbon Trust, and runs between our London ofces, thereby implemented many of the recommendations in a year long trial at Regis House, one of our reducing our overall emissions.
This scheme was second in the European Energy Trophy and reduced emission at Regis House by 29% saving 44,000 on the energy bill at that site Waste management We have continued to target waste management and overall have made good progress across the portfolio.
At our head ofces in London paper consumption has decreased for the third year running, assisted by the introduction of double sided printers copiers in 2005.
We report further on waste and energy management throughout the business unit reviews in the OFR.
Biodiversity We retained our accreditation under the Business and Biodiversity Benchmark scheme run by The UK Wildlife Trusts.
The Stage II survey programme has identied several locations with potential to enhance the local biodiversity and we are investing 10,000 on these initiatives across the DWP estate and our retail portfolio.
Climate change Climate change is one of the challenges facing us and we have established a working group with a long-term remit to consider the potential impacts of climate change predictions on our business and how we might mitigate adverse effects or take advantage of new opportunities.
