Corporate responsibility report When acquiring new sites for development we place high Environment priority on locations with easy access to public transport links and The Groups Environmental policy has been in place since 2001. particularly those close to nodal transport interchanges.
The Group is committed to effective environmental management and regards regulatory compliance as a minimum standard.
Where possible, we make our tenants aware of our environmental requirements.
We look to minimise waste and at our head office We adhere to our policy in the following ways: approximately three tonnes of waste paper was recycled during We are committed to achieving sustainable development.
We also look to minimise water usage and have This commitment can add value to our schemes and makes introduced hippo devices at two of our sites to reduce water for a better long-term investment.
consumption by over 100,000 litres a year.
The design of all major schemes aims to achieve an Excellent We are committed to reporting our progress on initiatives.
BREEAM assessment with a minimum standard of Very Good During 2006, the Group will review its Environmental being set.
Our recently completed office scheme at 28 Dorset Management System, looking at ways of improving the Square, London NW1 has achieved a Very Good BREEAM managing, recording and reporting of the various actions that the assessment.
Similarly, proposals for our residential schemes are Group currently undertakes, as well as new actions that should be designed to achieve a BRE EcoHomes rating of Excellent, such undertaken.
To assist with this review the Group has employed as our Winchester Road, Swiss Cottage project.
Upstream, a strategic sustainability consultancy that helps companies to develop strategies for economic, environmental and We are actively involved in urban regeneration through our social responsibility.
Upstream works with many leading property developments on brownfield sites such as Greenwich Reach.
companies and we will therefore be able to benchmark our We always analyse a sites potential for refurbishment along performance in this area on a regular basis.
with full redevelopment during our feasibility studies.
The Groups environmental statement can be found on our website, We are committed to achieving reductions in energy use www.
in all new developments and major refurbishment projects.
Compliance with the new part L of the Building Regulations External indices aimed at reducing energy consumption is considered as an The Group has been a member of FTSE4Good since July 2001. absolute minimum standard.
Within London all developments are The index measures performance of companies that meet globally currently being designed to enable them to comply with the recognised corporate responsibility standards.
The Group is also a GLA requirement for 10% of the energy consumption to be from member of Business in the Community, which actively encourages renewable sources.
In addition, we are working to ensure that our companies to improve their impact on the communities in which buildings achieve good results if assessed for Energy Performance they operate.
These are likely to be introduced in line with the EUs Energy Performance of Buildings Directive.
We consider the environmental impact of property management and the environmental standards for building use.
In partnership with our tenant Arup, the development of Phases 2 and 3 of its new HQ in Howland Street and Fitzroy Street, London W1, is designed to be energy efficient.
The faade of the new building has been designed to work in tandem with a low energy cooling system.
Using a combination of opaque, translucent and clear glazing panels, two panel types have been developed which, when Health and safety arranged across the faade, combine to reduce up to 50% of the heat gain through the faade.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of health and safety compliance throughout our portfolio.
Regular on-site inspections Where possible we consider the potential to improve all forms of and risk audits are undertaken by external consultants and procedures transportation leading into a site, for example upgrading bus updated as a result.
This ensures that changes in legislation are routes or reviewing traffic calming measures.
monitored and implemented as required.
This relates to both our Furthermore, we include green transport plans in new managed portfolio and our development and refurbishment works development proposals, promoting measures such as the use where CDM has to be complied with.
of car clubs and providing ample cycle storage and showers.
The Groups health and safety statement can be found on our We will look to include electricity recharging points.
32 London Merchant Securities plc Community Charity The Group works with those communities in which we have The Group does not make charitable donations, except for the developments.
We liaise with them prior to developing a site, and support it provides to the Rayne Foundation.
throughout the development stages, to ensure that they are kept fully The Group does, however, support its employees in their charity informed through the regular use of newsletters.
All principal work and fund raising activities.
In 2005 2006, our employees voted contractors on developments and major refurbishments are required for Great Ormond Street Childrens Charity as their chosen to be members of the Considerate Contractors Scheme.
charity of the year and raised 8,210 through a range of social activities.
Great Ormond Street Hospital is an international Employees centre of excellence for treating sick children and training The average number of employees of the Group was 1,449 childrens specialists.
The areas of the Groups operations in which they are employed were: Property Management 45 2005: 44, Investment For 2006 2007, our employees nominated Fitzrovia Youth in Action, Division 1,392 2005: 1,333 and 12 staff 2005: 13 who were a community-based youth action project local to many of our employed directly at the Groups properties and their costs recharged developments as charity of the year.
Fitzrovia Youth in Action uses to tenants.
sports and youth work to encourage young people and support them in developing projects in the community and to improve The Investment Division allocation includes 418 people relationships between people from different ethnic and age groups.
2005: 285 employed by Inflexion plc and its consolidated subsidiaries, 826 people 2005: 791 employed by Energy Cranes LMS operates a Give As You Earn scheme and in 2005 2006, over International and 134 people 2005: 243 employed by companies in 4,000 was donated to charities supported by its employees.
the LMS consolidated subsidiaries segment.
LMS encourages its employees to be involved in the charities that it LMS employs people based on their experience and abilities, supports.
For example, two employees provide support and expertise regardless of their race, colour, ethnic or national origin, gender, to The Place2Be, an innovative, growing charity that gives children sexual orientation, age, religion, marital status or disability.
All of our in primary schools a place where they can express their feelings employees are encouraged to attend courses and seminars to learn through talking, creative work and play.
new skills and to keep current on changes to their areas of expertise.
The Rayne Foundation The companies comprising the Investment Division pay LMS has donated in-kind staff costs and administrative support contributions to pension schemes for their employees.
estimated to be worth 240,000 to the Rayne Foundation and Details of retirement benefits available to employees are disclosed on related trusts.
The Rayne Foundation is a registered charity which pages 60 to 62. aims to understand and engage with the needs of UK society, and to help address those needs through a range of social investments Employee share ownership is actively encouraged and LMS funding initiatives designed to achieve a social return.
The focus is offers a Share Incentive Plan which involves participation on on work which is nationally important or which has potential for favourable terms.
83% of employees have chosen to participate.
New wider than local and immediate application.
Its areas of interest are: employees are eligible to join the Plan on commencement of their the arts, education, health and medicine, social welfare and employment with LMS.
A Save-As-You-Earn Share Option Scheme development.
Further details can be found on its website, is also available and LMS employees are invited to join when an offer www.
