I have so many close friends...... and one day I hope to meetthem.
Online communities can be just as real as real communities.
21 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We aspire to high professional standards and integrity in all situations: managing our financial performance for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Our framework As a group, we recognise that we have certain responsibilities to our employees, our clients, our shareholders and the wider world.
We aspire to high professional standards and integrity in all situations: managing our financial performance for the benefit of all our stakeholders, making a contribution to the communities we live in, and avoiding practices that, directly or indirectly, have a negative effect on others or the environment.
Our day-to-day activities do not present any immediate risk to the environment or to society at large.
However, we are a major commercial enterprise and employer in many of our markets, and we believe that fact presents its own set of responsibilities.
In addition, in marketing services, we work with some of the worlds most directional brands.
Our partnership with these clients often generates some of the most innovative and high-profile work that we do.
Commercially, therefore, it is important to be the kind of company that clients want to do business with, and equally one that our staff feel proud to work for, and recruits want to join.
We are proud of the trust our clients place in us.
This is deeply ingrained in our business, and means we strive to carry out every single mandate with the highest possible degree of commitment and results.
We think of our clients as our partners in business and our goals are mutual goals: to understand consumers and to connect with them.
Transparency, integrity, accountability and creativity are the key values that we strive to deliver to clients.
We try to carry out our responsibilities properly, and to improve our performance over time.
As an organisation of almost 14,000 people, we aim to strike a balance between the need for consistent principles and policies, and the operations of individual countries, businesses and people within a supportive framework, mirroring the global and local relationships we have with our clients.
Our businesses often do best when they espouse local and individual initiatives and as a result, much of our work on corporate and social responsibility is driven and delivered on an individual market basis.
We have a central corporate social responsibility committee to set the framework for CSR, and monitor activity across all our businesses.
We are reviewing the appropriate reporting structure from this committee to the Board.
Our people Our organisation exists thanks to the skills and creative talents of almost 14,000 people.
That is what keeps us in business in both Aegis Media and Synovate.
Looking after each of them properly is a major priority, and fundamental to our success.
Our objective is to provide them with satisfying professional opportunities, in a safe and stimulating environment, and to help them develop the skills to advance and grow within our organisation.
We have continued to make significant investment in training across the group.
In 2006 we ran a number of bespoke groupwide leadership programmes.
One, developed with Ashridge Management College, concentrates on strategic and business issues, with a second on developing leadership skills and behaviours for our business leaders.
22 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In the UK, where we are a member of Investors in People, Carat was featured in The Sunday Times 100 best companies to work for for a sixth successive year.
The Synovate Academy continued to sponsor training programmes across all of the global networks offices in 2006, ranging from practice accreditation and solutions to sales and business development.
At Aegis Media, we put some 5,000 employees - both client facing and support - through Carats 3Cs training programme.
Standing for Curiosity, Collaboration and Creativity, the 3Cs programme supports the development of the Carat offer, with its increasing focus on communications planning, internationally.
The programme was launched worldwide with T-Day, to mark its impact on transforming communications, and has been followed up with an intensive programme of global and market-specific We helped the UKs Synovate South Africa has communication.
Department for Transport reach been providing year-round 29% of all teens in only five financial support to The days with the THINK!
viral Godwin Feeding Scheme since In 2006, we continued our programme to introduce more structured career campaign at one-eighth of the 2001.
The scheme provides development in some of Aegis Medias larger markets.
In the UK, where we are a cost of equivalent reach on TV.
In member of Investors in People, Carat was featured in The Sunday Times 100 best Aimed at making hard-to-reach the mornings, pre-school companies to work for for a sixth successive year.
In Aegis Media Nordics our Young teenagers aware of the toddlers arrive, and after dangers of road traffic, the school older children visit the Lions programme to develop high-potential employees was extended into a broader biggest single cause of death scheme.
These children are regional initiative called Global Village.
in their age group, the reliant on Godwin Park for campaign took the form of a their daily meal.
Synovate has run an annual employee engagement survey each year from 2002 to viral film, passed from one 2005.
In 2006 we took a decision to move the survey to March 2007, allowing us to teens mobile to another.
present findings almost immediately at our annual Synovate conference the following month, and to use a newly developed survey methodology.
The survey looks at commitment, satisfaction and other employee issues across all Synovates full-time staff almost 6,000 today, so we can understand what we do well and what we can improve to help staff commitment.
Evaluation of certain senior managers performance is directly linked to the surveys results and each of Synovates operating units has developed an action plan to take advantage of the strengths and address areas for improvement identified by the survey.
Groupwide, we have a formal appraisal system in place, and commit to reviewing each employees progress at least once a year.
We also use a range of internal communications for skills development, to share best practice and to give our people the recognition they deserve.
We have a regular groupwide online publication, covering developments in our businesses and markets, and provide regular updates on our business progress, both written, in person and using online video.
Each of Aegis Media and Synovate has a global Aegis awards programme, aimed at recognising the best work in our business, and sharing insight and practice development globally, as well as regional awards around the world.
We encourage frequent and candid communication at a business, country and group level.
In 2006 we were joined by a new group HR director, with considerable experience of leading the people agenda in international organisations.
The emphasis of our people policies is on talent development, diversity, reward and recognition, aligned to the changing needs and strategies of our businesses, and we have been investing in resource in these areas.
As part of this, we are in the middle of a global initiative to improve the efficiency and access to employee information around the group.
In 2006, as part of this initiative, we started the process of engagement with key stakeholders, inside and outside our business, to understand their needs and wishes.
We carried out an audit of existing tools for employee information data collection and analytics in order to define 23 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We want our employees to participate in the civic life of their communities.
Where practical and appropriate, we allow our people to take time out of the office to carry out work for charities and we support a number of pro bono causes.
We are currently designing the solution for testing and subsequent roll-out from the second half of 2007 onwards, allowing us to fully test measure our people performance.
In the year we carried out some 40 business continuity planning exercises, designed to protect our people and ensure the viability of our services to clients in the event of a major incident.
We are committed to fair employment practices, including the prohibition of all forms of illegal discrimination.
We believe in giving equal access and fair treatment to all Isobar launched the inaugural Carat UK has worked with employees on the basis of merit: we think this is both good business sense and ethically Green Bean awards in 2006 charity .
We are committed to following the applicable labour and employment laws as part of its sustainability Martins for several years, programme.
We had a very helping with marketing and wherever we operate.
high level of entries in year offering work placements.
one, proving that this is a The Connection provides help We believe that disabled people have the same rights as non-disabled to become and priority that captures the and support to young people, continue as our employees.
Wherever possible we provide the same opportunities for imagination of our people, often homeless, and depends with overall winner titles going on communicating in an disabled people as for others.
If employees become disabled we make every effort to to Molecular and glue.
Seeing keep them in our employment, with appropriate training where necessary.
things through The Connections eyes is a very Our shareholders different way of looking at the We recognise our fiduciary duty to our shareholders and seek to establish constructive world.
We learn constantly from our partnership, and and two-way relationships.
Our primary aim in this respect is to create value through consider ourselves very continuous improvements in our operating and financial performance.
We conduct an fortunate to have this active investor relations programme throughout the year, designed to set out our strategy relationship.
and prospects with clarity and in detail, and to solicit shareholders views in return.
We also routinely make a range of statutory and additional information available to all shareholders and interested parties via our website and publications.
Further details of our shareholder relations programme can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 35.
We are a constituent of FTSE4Good, the socially responsible investment index, having met globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
We are also a member of the Media CSR Forum, which was launched in 2001 to develop CSR practices and understanding for UK listed media companies.
Our business partners and suppliers We try to create relationships with our suppliers and third parties such that they trust us and want to do business with us.
In selecting external suppliers we use competitive processes that are fair and transparent, and designed to maximise value and quality of service for our clients and ourselves.
With our major suppliers, we aim to establish longterm relationships, often adopting a partnership approach with shared aims and incentives.
Our communities We want our employees to participate in the civic life of their communities.
We also undertake pro bono work throughout the company, for causes as diverse as the Heart Foundation in Australia and for Wear It Pink in the UK.
In the majority of our businesses we now send electronic greetings cards for the holiday season, and make a donation to charity.
Its harder to... 25 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At a group level we set out to adhere to best practice in environmental matters, such as our premises, equipment and use and disposal of resources, and we charge our operating businesses to do the same.
We also support a range of charities and community projects across the group.
The majority of this support comes from our operating companies in their local markets.
At the group level, Aegis supports a number of local and national charities, with a particular emphasis on children with particular needs.
Our total charitable donations in 2006, excluding fund-raising by employees, amounted to 0.3m 2005: 0.4m.
In line with our policy, we did not make political donations in the year 2005: nil.
In 2006 Synovate took the decision to consolidate all its CARES Charitable Actions Recognised by Employees of Synovate into a single committee and team.
This allows us to expand a successful US programme worldwide.
CARES is an employee-run initiative aimed at encouraging work to support charities, whether by fund-raising or donating time and in-kind support.
As a global initiative, CARES will focus on supporting childrens charities around the world, reflecting Synovates own creativity and curiosity, and the fact that they are all our futures.
Our environment As our business is predominantly in services, our impact on the environment is relatively low and indirect.
However, we recognise that we have a responsibility to limit those effects we have.
We adhere to guidelines from government and industry regulatory bodies, and actively encourage recycling and conservation of resources across the group.
This annual report, for example, is printed on chlorine free paper from sustainable forests.
At a group level we set out to adhere to best practice in environmental matters, such as our premises, equipment and use and disposal of resources, and we charge our operating businesses to do the same.
Energy efficiency, for example, is a key driver of our relocation and facilities policies, and in the majority of our businesses small-scale initiatives, such as double-sided printing and copying, is the norm.
The majority of our businesses run similar initiatives to encourage environmentally responsible business practices.
The majority of these are local by definition.
In Aegis Media France we created Aeko, an internal icon to encourage reduced consumption of resources, with specific targets in areas such as paper usage.
In Aegis Media UK we treat Business in the Communitys Level 3 standard as our objective across all fronts, and we have had a good level of success so far.
In Aegis Media Americas it is our policy to purchase only energy star-rated and powersave equipment where possible.
We seek to minimise air and road travel, where possible, through technological alternatives such as video-conferencing and virtual meetings.
In Isobar we launched our Green Bean project, a sustainability programme aimed at encouraging our businesses around the world to adopt day-to-day initiatives to reduce their environmental impacts.
These range from reducing power, water and paper, to being a force for good, with active ethical trading policies.
We recognise that standards of acceptable and best practice in corporate responsibility are developing rapidly at the moment.
We are committed to staying abreast of best practice in this area, and believe it is the right thing to do for our businesses.
