Corporate responsibility continued With respect to the managed portfolio, the Shaftesbury has long established The welfare, safety and training of employees responsibility for waste collection lies with relationships with several organisations is a key priority.
Staff turnover is low and the Groups managing agents.
The volumes which are directly relevant to its business.
there have been no reported staff grievances generated are a result of the tenants The Group also provides financial support or any reportable health and safety incidents activities and outside the Groups control.
and advice to the National Campaign for the in the year ended 30th September 2006.
The recycling and compacting schemes at Arts, the Art Fund, the Association of British The Group actively encourages staff training Carnaby continue to be a success and are Orchestras, the Orchestra of the Age of and skills development and involvement in well used by tenants, although, exact figures Enlightenment, the Donmar Theatre, the the development of the Groups business, for proportions of waste recycled have not Royal Shakespeare Company and the Corporate Responsibility policies and targets been possible to determine.
Other organisations which and community activities.
the Group has supported during the year During the year, a leaflet explaining the include: the London branch of the In view of the small number of employees, principles of the Groups Environmental Samaritans located in Carnaby, the the Group does not consider that employeepolicy was issued to all tenants to raise Hungerford Drugs Rehabilitation Project based key performance indicators would awareness of the Groups policy and to located in Chinatown, the Soho Family provide a meaningful measure of the suggest ways that they could lessen the Centre, the Soho Green Charity, the performance of the Group.
environmental impacts of their businesses.
Chinatown Association, the Chinatown Working Party, the Seven Dials Trust, Corporate Responsibility Objectives Environmental Strategy Groups Office the Covent Garden Community Association for 2006 2007 In the Groups office, environmental impacts and the Yellow Earth Theatre Company.
For the year ahead, the following key objectives are low risk and relate to energy consumption, The Group recognises that its villages have been set to build on the achievements resource use and waste production.
Energy to date: must offer safe, well-maintained and consumption is relatively low and figures welcoming environments if they are to collated for the year indicate a decrease in - Continue to use 100% brownfield sites: continue to appeal to tenants, their staff consumption over previous years.
A paper and customers, and local residents.
- Continue to track the sourcing of recycling scheme continues to be operated.
This is particularly challenging in these materials, particularly timber, and aim to central locations where visitor numbers purchase a minimum of 30% from Health & Safety Issues are high and trading hours are often long.
sustainable sources: Within the managed portfolio and the Head Shaftesbury continues to work closely with Office, there were no reportable health and - Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a Westminster City Council, Camden Council safety incidents during the year.
specified capital value are registered with and other bodies to develop practical the Considerate Constructors Scheme and solutions to local issues, supporting Shaftesbury in the Community continue to achieve 26 40 above the initiatives such as CCTV, improved satisfactory score : The Groups policy is to align its charitable street cleaning and waste disposal, support and community involvement with and environmental improvements.
- Extend use of green tariff electricity to its areas of investment in Londons West Seven Dials: During the year, the Group has partnered End.
Support is provided to a number of local authorities and charities to promote - Continue to monitor water use in Carnaby organisations involved in the arts, theatre and provide financial support for street and and Seven Dials: and music together with support and lighting improvement works in Seven Dials involvement with community groups and - Continue to monitor the waste management and Chinatown which will improve public charities which are addressing important strategy for Carnaby and Seven Dials in safety and accessibility.
A number of other local issues.
In addition, the Group order to encourage recycling by tenants: schemes are scheduled for the year ahead.
continues to work closely with local In addition, the Group supports and - Continue to monitor energy use in the statutory bodies to maintain and improve endorses the Soho Action Plan.
Groups office and investigate the purchase the local environment.
Employment Issues - Continue to support local community groups The Group employs 18 staff including executive and continue to be proactive in helping Directors with 16 based in its head office.
charitable and other local organisations The Environmental, Social and Community Policy contains policy statements on equal opportunities in employment and procedures Jonathan S Lane for reporting concerns regarding nonChief Executive adherence to the Groups ethical standards.
11th December 2006 Flexible working for staff is accommodated according to individual circumstances.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 53 Corporate responsibility appropriate performance indicator will not The Board recognises the importance of Environmental Strategy be identified.
In the year under review, the social, environmental and ethical matters Investment and Refurbishments Group undertook a waste management duty in the conduct of the Groups business.
The Group continues to purchase and of care audit tracking the audit trail of waste refurbish only properties that are within The Chief Executive is responsible for the recycling over a sample of refurbishment central London and, therefore, in line with development and administration of policies sites and no issues were identified from Government policy for maximising the re-use and practices in matters relating to Corporate the audit.
of existing development land and minimising Responsibility.
The Board receives regular the use of resources.
reports on Corporate Responsibility matters.
Environmental Strategy For refurbishment projects it is recognised Property Management that the principal issues that require The Groups Environmental, Social and Energy consumption and waste management management are minimising local Ethical Policy is reviewed annually to are the key environmental issues for the environmental impact, particularly noise ensure it continues to reflect the Corporate managed portfolio.
The Group continues to and dust: managing construction waste Responsibility risks and opportunities monitor energy consumption in the common and sourcing materials.
During this year: relevant to the Group.
A revised Statement parts of its portfolio where it has direct of Policies was approved by the Board in - Twelve refurbishment schemes with a responsibility.
The policy document and regular capital value above 50,000 have been relatively low energy usage at similar levels progress reports are available on the registered with the Considerate to the data collected last year.
The rolling Groups web site.
As in previous years, an Constructors Scheme.
Of these, 80% programme of replacing light fittings with external review was undertaken in August of the schemes that have been audited long life low energy fittings: use of timer 2006 by RPS Consultants in order to verify achieved the target score of 26 40.
This controls on lights: thermostats on boilers working practices against Policy Goals and is an improvement in performance over and maximising use of insulation and achievement of objectives and targets in the last year.
secondary glazing continues where Action Plan.
The revised Policy, the results appropriate within the portfolio.
This is - One of the Groups projects won a Silver of the external audit in this and previous showing a progressive increase year-on-year.
Considerate Constructors Scheme Award years and the Action Plan are available in For the forthcoming year, a number of projects in 2006. full on the Groups web site.
The following will involve converting existing light systems report highlights key achievements and - The Groups Corporate Responsibility to allow low energy bulbs.
It is intended that challenges during the year.
Policy is included within tender these projects will be used as case studies documentation for subcontractors with The Group achieved a ranking of 48 in this to demonstrate the impact of energy usage guidance provided for the specification of years Business in the Community Corporate in the portfolio.
materials, waste management and Responsibility Index.
This was an improvement In September 2006, the electricity contract checklists for legal compliance.
upon last years performance and the Group for Carnaby was re-tendered to supply 100% maintained its position at the top of the real - The Contractors Induction leaflet, briefly green tariff power.
It is intended that this estate sector.
The Index is a voluntary self outlining the key points of the Groups will be extended to Seven Dials in 2007. assessment survey that provides an annual Corporate Responsibility Policy has been benchmark of how companies manage, Water meters have now been installed in issued to all subcontractors working on measure and report their corporate Carnaby and Seven Dials and baseline data the portfolio.
The Index is open to all collected.
- The use of the timber continues to be companies in the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 In Chinatown, the Group continues to work and Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
monitored to endeavour to identify the closely with Westminster City Council to proportion that is sourced from well The Group is a constituent of the FTSE4 Good manage the issues that are specific to the managed sources certified by third party Index, which is intended as a guide for socially area such as controlling the problems of fly certification bodies.
responsible investment, and has been tipping and disposal of food waste.
A new Waste management activities are monitored awarded membership of Business in the initiative for the year was the installation of Communitys PerCent Club, recognising but it continues to be difficult to collect data CCTV in parts of Chinatown to track fly tipping in a form to compare against a recognisable the Groups community investment of in and inappropriate disposal of food waste.
excess of 1% of pre-tax profits.
As a result of the small At Horse and Dolphin Yard, the new covered scale of most of the Groups refurbishment is also listed on the Kempen SNS Smaller bin store has proved effective for taking bins European Index, the first sustainable index projects, the volumes of waste are relatively off the street and preventing overspill of waste low and there is often insufficient space to for smaller European companies.
into the road, consequently improving the local segregate waste.
This problem, which has environment for visitors and local residents.
been identified in previous years, is unlikely to be resolved given the unusual nature of the Groups portfolio.
In view of this, the Group will continue to monitor waste production, but considers that an Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 52
