qxd 8 6 06 5:49 pm Page 16 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Operational review continued A RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Dairy Crest recognises that our actions and decisions have an impact on the staff we employ, the local communities where we operate, our suppliers, our customers and the environment.
We take our responsibilities to our stakeholders seriously.
Dairy Crests Chief Executive has overall targets for reductions in energy and Marketplace responsibility for Corporate Social water usage, as well as for food Following the Sudan 1 incident in early Responsibility CSR.
2005, we have undertaken both internal manages its CSR programme by means Milk and product wastage has and external reviews of our crisis of a steering group which brings reduced by 21% over the past two management systems.
These have together senior managers with specific years, primarily driven by reduced received positive feedback from CSR responsibilities who review the wastage following our major investment independent consultants.
To further companys activities and assess the in Davidstow.
Future savings are likely to enhance the standard of our crisis needs of our stakeholders.
Dairy Crest is be at a lower level.
management arrangements, we have a member of Business in the also undertaken a crisis scenario Community.
Environment We have long recognised that a Emissions to milk Product losses intake trend % to effluent v milk commitment to protecting the Company CO2 intake trend % environment is an integral part of Company COD managing our business and that environmental performance contributes to overall business performance.
Our manufacturing sites and the national distribution centre continue to be independently accredited to the environmental management system ISO 14001.
Our newly acquired site at Foston has passed the first stage 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 of the accreditation process with full accreditation expected in August 2006.
Energy usage, in terms of carbon The benefits from our investment at Dairy Crests established dioxide emissions, has reduced by 4% Davidstow in water reuse technology environmental management system since 2004 05, following an adverse have been consolidated during the approach has enabled us to obtain trend between 2003 04 and 2004 05. year and this approach is now being permits under the regulations relating to This was caused by an increase in assessed at other sites, particularly Integrated Pollution Prevention and drying activity.
Excluding this effect, Foston, where we plan to invest further Control IPPC.
As part of this process the underlying trend is steadily in water and effluent management each affected site has documented downwards since 2002 03. systems during 2006 07.
qxd 8 6 06 5:52 pm Page 17 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 17 exercise with senior executives.
In March 2006, we were prosecuted for Photographs from left to right: We continue to drive standards of a breach of hygiene regulations at our Cathedral Citys marketing team presented good hygienic practice at our sites with a household depot in Fenstanton.
Robust Leukaemia Research with a cheque for target of all sites being accredited to the action has been taken to ensure that a 17,000 which they raised by selling the Quality Management System ISO 9001. similar situation cannot recur.
brands Family Favourites recipe book.
Our dairies at Chadwell Heath and We continue to have dialogue with Fenstanton attained accreditation during the Food Standards Agency regarding Dairy Crest staff launched Quids In, the the year, leaving only our newly acquired their targets for nutritional dietary company-wide lottery which benefits the site at Foston to reach this level.
In particular, we have companys charity partners and pays out to achieve this by December 2006. agreed certain salt reductions in our monthly jackpot prizes.
Dairy Crest's Haverfordwest site sponsors the local under-10s team from Accident incident Water to milk the Pembroke Dock Harlequins Rugby rate by year % intake trend % Football Club.
Company AIR % of Ind Std Company water Dairy Crest staff have raised an incredible 730,000 for Leukaemia Research over the last three years and will continue for a fourth year.
Households Grove Farm depot in Sholing gave BBC Children in Needs mascot Pudsey Bear a ride on a Dairy Crest milk float during a Radio Solent breakfast show in 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 November 2005.
Our accident incident rate continues Unit water usage has reduced by to reduce year on year, with a 3% 1.2% since 2004 05, despite an improvement compared to 2004 05. increase of added-value products This is in the context of several major in our product portfolio which have capital projects in the year associated higher water consumption per unit.
with the integration of the Midlands Co-op Dairy and Foston site.
qxd 8 6 06 5:54 pm Page 18 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2006 Operational review continued cheese portfolio which are achievable our skilled workforce is key to the Community without adverse impact on product continuous improvement we achieve and The majority of our sites are in rural quality.
During the course of the year labour turnover is a key performance settings or small towns, where Dairy we have also completed the removal indicator of the health and success of Crest is often one of the largest local programme of trans-fatty acids from our our business.
We recognise that the range of spreads containing vegetable We are now two years into our company has a valuable role to play fats.
manufacturing improvement and in the life of the local community.
We are supporting both the IGD and operational excellence programmes.
Our The majority of our sites are involved Dairy UK proposals for declaring operational excellence programme is run with schools in their local areas.
Their Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs on in conjunction with the University of involvement ranges from donations to packs as the most sensible means of Birmingham, and participants in the support fundraising activities to giving providing consumers with meaningful programme work towards an MSc in talks on subjects such as food and dairy information on nutritional content.
Our technology, as well as offering some We have a short supply chain, manufacturing improvement practitioners students the opportunity to participate enabling close relationships with the programme has now been completed by in work experience or visit our sites.
1,600 British dairy farmers who supply over 60 managers around the Group.
All our sites regularly give hampers of us directly, as well as supplying dairy This programme focuses on the dairy products or donations in kind to co-operatives.
The Dairy Crest principles of lean manufacture and local causes.
Assurance Scheme ensures the delivery continuous improvement in the context Our household business plays an of top quality milk, produced to high of a safe working environment.
important role at the heart of the local standards of food safety, animal welfare Maintaining a consistently safe and community.
We deliver over 350 million and protection of the environment.
healthy workplace for our people bottles of milk from 112 depots in Dairy Crest provides a subsidised continues to be a key corporate southern England and Wales to one support package, through the objective.
Health and safety H&S million customers every year, as well as a independent White Gold Service, to training represents a major tool in the range of other products including staples enable direct supplying farmers to achievement of this and during the year such as bread, eggs, fruit and maintain Farm Assurance standards with we have run training courses in safety vegetables and juices.
the minimum of disruption and cost.
management, manual handling and Our thanks once again go to our accident investigation at most of our sites and depots which have continued Workplace major sites.
to support Dairy Crests corporate The success of our business is The safety of company drivers has charity, Leukaemia Research.
Our staff underpinned by the 7,500 people who also been targeted and a driver and customers have now raised a total work for Dairy Crest and our joint awareness programme introduced for all of 730,000 over the last three years venture, Yoplait Dairy Crest, across 20 company car drivers when they change through a variety of fundraising activities.
manufacturing and administration sites vehicles.
We are also pleased to announce that and 112 household depots.
We focus on During the year, we have established we have agreed to continue to support creating an environment where our a Group H&S steering committee made the UKs leading blood cancer charity for people are safe, valued and motivated to up of key Group and divisional directors.
The aim of this is to increase active For more information and our We increasingly rely on our workforce involvement of senior executives in position on a range of CSR issues, to develop their skills, knowledge and promoting safety and drive improvement please visit our website at experience to maximise returns on our in H&S performance.
investment in new technology and to proactive step to improve drive our environmental and marketplace communication on H&S throughout the performance.
We are working with our Group, and to share information and employees and Trade Unions to develop best practice between company sites.
structures, which more effectively The committee meets eight times a year recognise the changing skill requirements and reports to the Board quarterly.
