Corporate social responsibility Our objectives Our people As one of Europes leading retail specialists in electricals and furniture, Our aim is to be recognised as a good employer that provides Kesas aim is to provide our customers with high-quality products a professional and stimulating working environment for its employees.
at the right price, made with a proper respect for people and the environment.
We have established effective mechanisms for staff consultation and feedback through workers council meetings where issues are Since our demerger from Kingfisher three years ago we have been discussed with elected representatives from across the organisation.
progressively developing our own set of policies with regard to CSR.
We also have other forums for discussion and regularly conduct We are establishing targets and objectives which we expect all our employee surveys.
This allows our management to take employees companies to meet.
We do not see any conflict between our views into account when they make decisions that affect the future commitment to these policies and the pursuit of profitable growth.
We are working to improve the social and environmental performance We fully respect the principles of diversity at work.
Our aim is to have of all our businesses and are committed to keeping abreast of societys the right employee in the right place regardless of gender, race, age evolving expectations.
We will learn from the example of others as well or sexual orientation.
In the UK we are members of Opportunity Now as sharing experience and best practice from companies within the an organisation which focuses on the needs of women at work.
As well as our responsibility to customers and shareholders we also We have developed a code of conduct which outlines standards of recognise that our employees deserve the opportunity to develop their behaviour to be followed both within the Group and in our relations talents and achieve satisfying and rewarding careers.
We are committed with external stakeholders.
These include our investors, our customers, to promoting individual development and we regularly assess our our suppliers and our employees.
employees abilities, progress and individual training needs.
Todays businesses are expected to have high standards of social We are concerned to provide a safe and healthy working environment conduct and to take increasing responsibility for the direct and indirect for all our employees and to minimise occupational accidents and effects of their operations.
As a group we understand and respond to illness.
Our Company Secretary co-ordinates a network of advisors any sensitivities about the origin and production of the products we sell.
who periodically report to the Board on these matters.
It is also becoming clear that ethical business practice makes good commercial sense.
The environment We accept a responsibility for what happens to our products when they reach the end of their expected life and we are involved in a wide range of collection and recycling schemes.
We have direct professional contact with industrial companies and associations specialising in green issues.
We place particular emphasis on waste treatments for batteries and accumulators and on issues surrounding end of life electricals.
14 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 Our communities operations should adversely affect the health of customers, With 690 stores in nine countries we take considerable care to understand employees or the community at large.
and respond to the needs of the communities in which we operate.
Kesa is committed to the promotion and marketing of energy-efficient We want our stores to provide quality products and good opportunities products that minimise emissions of CO. An increasing number of the 2 for local employment.
We also want to work in harmony with our local fridges we sell are A-rated.
We also produce guides on saving energy communities, to contribute to community activities and to produce in the home and we work with the Energy Saving Trust in the UK.
Both lasting benefits in the areas we serve.
Comet and Darty have fridge and freezer take-back schemes, a policy that we are actively promoting throughout the Group.
Kesa companies work with a wide range of partner organisations and outside bodies on community issues and we support a number We also aim to reduce the amount of packaging we use and to ensure of different charities on a regional basis.
Darty has been especially pro-active in this respect.
They collect all waste packaging when delivering a household Darty regularly donates products for specific community and charitable appliance unless the customer explicitly asks to keep it.
needs throughout the year particularly with regard to those who are experiencing social exclusion.
Packaging waste is also collected from Dartys warehouses and after-sales service centres.
All Darty stores send their waste back Since 1985 Darty has been in partnership with the Envie programme.
to a distribution centre to be sorted for recycling.
Envie runs a network of centres that train unemployed people to repair unwanted appliances that are then re-sold.
Comet runs a similar As a further environmental measure we are consciously trying to operation in the UK known as Renew and Vanden Borre also has its minimise the emissions from our transport operations.
Darty has own version of this socially beneficial scheme.
modified its logistics operation to achieve a more efficient use of its transport fleet.
This has resulted in a 20 per cent decrease in Darty supports fundraising initiatives in the medical research and vehicle movements so far.
social area, including the Fondation Pasteur Weismann, and runs a partnership with Ares to help the long-term unemployed.
WEEE In January 2007, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Darty and Vanden Borre also raise money for charity by selling smallWEEE Directive will come into force.
The aim of the Directive scale models of their home service vans.
BUT continues to donate is to minimise the impact of electrical and electronic equipment on kitchen appliances to Boutique Solidarite and Comet supports numerous the environment when those products become waste.
The initiative charities through a range of sponsored events.
In 2005 Comet raised means electrical retailers will need to extend their take-back facilities over 100,000 for its chosen charity, The British Heart Foundation.
to cover all categories including smaller appliances such as kettles and microwaves.
In preparation for the directive, we have trialled schemes Our environment with other retailers and social enterprise partners and are now Our objective is to minimise the environmental impact of all our consolidating the findings to ensure the best possible solution is put operations throughout the Group.
Neither our products nor our into practice.
WEEE All our operating companies have been running successful take-back schemes for large white appliances such as washing machines, refrigeration products and televisions since the late 1990s.
This has resulted in one in five returned appliances being diverted from landfill into re-use through social enterprise schemes for local communities.
We have taken a proactive stance on WEEE and most of our operating companies are already complying with the new requirements.
We will continue to drive this forward.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06 15 Corporate social responsibility Our supply chain Our quality team based in China carries out regular factory audits to As an electricals retailer we have a relatively low operational impact ensure that they meet the strict social, environmental and supply chain but a number of critical supply chain issues.
Many of Kesas electrical standards we require.
We know the identity of all our suppliers and products are sourced through the major international brands and have where their products are being made.
their own CSR policies in place.
The team also carries out random inspections of goods before We do not have operations or retail outlets in countries that present shipments are made to ensure that quality standards are being a significant risk from bribery or corruption, poor labour standards maintained.
They co-ordinate new product development which involves or protection of civil or political rights.
However, some of our suppliers communicating between quality engineers in Shenzhen and our quality do.
We are determined that the respect for human rights in our own assurance laboratory based in the UK.
operations should be matched by the companies and organisations with whom we do business.
Whether we are dealing with major brands or sourcing from elsewhere we ensure our products have been tested for safety, health and environmental issues.
At the same time our policy is to work in partnership with our suppliers to help them reduce their impact on the environment and to manage the challenges of sustainable growth.
Our sourcing policy Kesa sources products exclusively from factories that are committed to improving workers welfare and reducing environmental impact.
We believe that every link of the supply chain should benefit from the trade in our products and this would be undermined if our manufacturing production was at the expense of the quality of life of those involved.
Sourcing policy An important part of Kesas commercial strategy is to provide our customers with access to the wide range of innovative and competitive products manufactured in Asia.
We have opened a dedicated sourcing office in Hong Kong as a base for our commercial buying team.
A second office has recently opened in Shenzhen in China.
This office is the quality headquarters for our whole Asian operation and is equipped with extensive laboratory facilities for testing both own-label and suppliers products.
16 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2005 06
