CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate social responsibility issues are The results of the audit programme are reviewed important in and integral to all aspects of the by Debenhams, the results highlighted with Companys operations.
Although it publicises suppliers, and the standards are then monitored.
its activities in this area less than some other If it is found that any factory does not come up retailers, Debenhams places great emphasis to the standards expected, where possible in its business on social, environmental Debenhams will work with that supplier and and ethical matters.
The cornerstone of factory to resolve the issues within an agreed Debenhams policy is the action taken to timeframe.
This approach of working with establish and improve practices in its supply suppliers on corrective action planning and chain suppliers, products and distribution.
sustainable improvement is better for the Debenhams focus on CSR is also evident in suppliers workforce than walking away from such diverse areas as waste management, problems.
However such an approach is not human resources, health and safety and always possible and Debenhams will and did customer accessibility to its stores.
Details of during 2006 disengage a supplier for serious its work in all these areas, and of Debenhams breaches of its Code of Conduct.
The 2006 charitable activities, are set out below.
breach related to a south China lighting factory and Debenhams was not satisfied with the Supplier selection and monitoring approach of the supplier or factory management The basis of Debenhams approach to sourcing in engaging in a remediation programme.
On is to work with reputable suppliers who show the a more positive note Debenhams along with same commitment to ethical trade as Debenhams.
other ETI members are involved in two successful The Company has a complex supply chain as a remediation programmes in northern China.
result of the breadth of product in its stores and it is important that Debenhams fully understands Debenhams joined the ETI in November 2001 its supplier and factory base.
A review of suppliers and has fully adopted the ETI base code.
The ETI and sourcing hubs is currently being carried out, is a tri-partite alliance of commercial companies including social and technical mapping of the major retailers and suppliers to UK markets, factory base, and it is intended to complete this trade unions representing millions of workers exercise by the end of 2006. worldwide and non-governmental organisations who work to promote human rights and All suppliers and factories are required to comply equitable development worldwide.
The ETIs with the Debenhams Supplier Code of Conduct.
aim is to improve conditions of employment and The code covers all aspects of working conditions, therefore the lives of workers and their families including a decent and safe working environment.
in global supply chains that deliver goods to The code was strengthened in 2001 and is fully consumers in Britain.
compliant with the requirements of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI.
There are a number of working groups within the ETI and Debenhams is currently active in the All own-brand suppliers must complete a factory China Working Group, the China Occupational self-evaluation based on the Code of Conduct Health and Safety pilot project, the Purchasing for all of their factories that will be making Practices pilot project and the Impact Assessment products for Debenhams.
The Company then Steering Group.
monitors its suppliers and the standards in their factories on an ongoing basis in two ways, At least once a year the board considers the through an independent audit programme and importance of social, environmental and ethical through assessments by Debenhams own matters to the business of the Company.
directors are particularly concerned to ensure that the processes set out in this section of the Debenhams audit programme is based on report are adhered to as significant risks to the two-day audits and more focused one-day gap Companys business rest with the practices analysis audits, carried out by independent of suppliers and the factories making goods auditors.
In addition Debenhams accepts social for the Company.
audit reports completed for other retailers.
Debenhams will also be reviewing the SEDEX initiative over the coming months and, subject to such evaluation, intends to support its focus upon continuing to carry out independent audits and where necessary implementing sustainable improvement programmes with groups of suppliers.
17 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Debenhams products with a lower fat and salt content.
The baby food Debenhams has published its ethical and range is 100 per cent organic and a range of environmental trading policies covering various organic products are offered in all our stores.
aspects of product sourcing: Debenhams is currently in discussion with the Fair Animal testing Debenhams does not sell any Trade Foundation and other similar groups and products or product ingredients that were intends to introduce such products during 2007. tested on animals after 1 January 1998.
Distribution Leathers, hides and furs Debenhams does The Company continues to appraise ways of not allow the use of any snake, crocodile, minimising fuel consumption within its supply alligator or endangered species in its products.
Ocean All the leather used is a by-product of the food containers are one of the most environmentally industry and Debenhams supports the friendly means of transport, drawing less on humane treatment of animals throughout the environmental resource than almost any other supply chain.
Debenhams does not allow the means of transportation.
Over the last three years use of real fur in any of its products.
Debenhams has reduced the use of airfreight by almost 35 per cent replacing this in almost every Sustainable timber sources only timber case with ocean container freight.
The main ocean from sustainable sources is used and suppliers container freight forwarders are also replacing a are required to keep records so that this can significant number of their vessels with a new be verified.
fuel-efficient fleet and are committed to working to further reduce the environmental impact of Genetically modified organisms Debenhams their existing vessels.
requires all its products to be GMO free.
Conflict diamonds rough diamonds sourced for Debenhams production must have been procured and certified in compliance with the Kimberley Process, and finished diamonds must have been purchased from legitimate sources, not involved in funding conflict, in compliance with United Nations resolutions.
Our new distribution centre in Peterborough Safer chemicals the Company has evaluated the chemicals used in its products.
Certain Most of Debenhams road transport relates to chemicals have been banned.
A policy has deliveries to the stores.
The Company has been been established in relation to the use of other focusing on reducing the number of vehicle chemicals, covering own-bought merchandise, trips by combining routes and consolidating packaging and equipment on which product stock from the three distribution centres.
The is displayed in stores.
Following its chemical consolidation of the distribution centres from evaluation Debenhams also stipulates safer Daventry and Bedford to the new distribution alternative product constituents to be used by centre in Peterborough will result in an annual suppliers.
Debenhams has been participating, net decrease in distribution transport of 320,000 2 with the BRC Product Stewardship Group and kms, a saving of 48 metric tonnes of CO based Acona, in maintaining records and developing on emissions of 150g km.
The backhaul best practice for the implementation of the operation, to reduce the number of vehicles safer chemicals policy.
returning empty after making store deliveries to the distribution centres, has been extended The Food Services division continues to focus on during the year.
These programmes of combining improving the quality of and information about routes, consolidating stock and backhauling, its food.
As stated above all its products are GMO together with the ongoing programme of vehicle free.
The restaurants have new Allergy Advice replacement, have improved the Companys fuel Files which provide to customers easy access to efficiency in the year.
For example, the increase information on the most common allergens so during the year in the nominated carrier scheme that informed choices can be made and allergic under which Debenhams manages on behalf of dangers highlighted.
On the Kids Pick and Mix suppliers the consolidation of deliveries so that counters specific items are promoted for the Five collections are made from a number of suppliers a Day fruit vegetable requirement and sausages with therefore better vehicle utilisation on have been specially produced for Debenhams deliveries to the warehouse will on an annual 18 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 basis reduce transport mileage by 65,000 kms Over the last three years the Company has 2 equating to a saving of 9.75 metric tonnes of CO. streamlined the styles and colours of its garment hangers from over 250 options to under 80.
As well as collecting stock from our UK suppliers This allows for significantly better recycling the backhaul operation is used to return store opportunities in store and approximately 92,000 waste to the distribution centres.
Thirteen stores hangers a week are sent to the hanger recycling are currently participating in this scheme which provider.
we estimate will divert 470 tonnes of waste from the stores.
When received it will be combined A new waste management contract was signed with the waste from the distribution centres and this year and Debenhams is actively exploring where possible recycled: it is estimated that this with them ways to further reduce the amount will enable the Company to efficiently recycle of waste being sent to landfill.
more than 2,000 tonnes of card and plastic in the in the 2006 07 year.
Employees The Company is committed to supporting all In July 2005 Debenhams opened a new employees in their balance between work and distribution centre at Peterborough.
This has been personal life.
Depending on the area and role in designed to the highest environmental standards which they work, Debenhams offer various and is situated on a brown field site in-filled with flexible contracts to suit their individual needs.
Thousands of trees have been planted and before building could Debenhams recognises that there may be times commence 64,000 was spent on relocating the when an employee needs to take time off from rare reptiles on the site.
Energy saving measures work or change their pattern of working due to have been incorporated into the building and the personal situations.
There are a number of policies 700,000 sq ft of internal roof lighting are controlled in place to support employees through such with light sensors.
The offices have PIR controlled events, including parental, maternity, paternity lighting that ensures lights are only on in areas and adoption leave, flexible working and a career when they are in use.
In the same way as the Peterborough distribution All employees have free access to the Retail Trust centre, stockroom, staff and office areas in new Helpline.
stores are fitted with PIR lighting.
The new store at Westwood Cross has light sensors in the All employees are required to adhere to the Code fitting rooms: these will be fitted as standard in of Business Conduct senior employees confirm all future new store constructions and where compliance in writing.
This sets out the ethical possible light sensors will also be incorporated standards expected by the Company, covering into store refurbishments.
Debenhams has matters such as the acceptance of gifts and recently appointed an Energy Manager specifically hospitality and other areas where a conflict to minimise energy usage across all its existing of interest could appear to arise.
Debenhams stores and to advise on the configuration and is concerned to ensure that its directors and equipment used in all new and refurbished stores.
employees act with the greatest integrity and will not tolerate any shortfall from its standards.
Waste management Debenhams works with its suppliers to minimise The Company has put in place a number of the amount of transit packaging.
Where packaging avenues through which any employee who is needed consideration is given to the appropriate has a concern about any aspect of the Companys materials: for example foam and polystyrene are operations, or who is being victimised or not used as they do not easily recycle.
inappropriately treated or believes a colleague is being so treated, may bring this concern on Stores which are not part of the backhauling a confidential basis to the attention of a senior programme referred to in the earlier paragraph executive of the Company.
Further details of these are able to recycle their card and plastic and whistle blowing processes are set out in the some dispose of it in mill-sized bales.
This year internal control section of this report.
Debenhams also appointed a recycling house to dispose of faulty or unsaleable stock from Debenhams provides equality of opportunity for the stores, which previously would have been all its employees.
The Companys policy is to destroyed or compacted and removed as waste.
ensure that individuals are treated fairly and that decisions on recruitment selection, training, promotion and career management are based solely on objective and job-related criteria.
19 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The opportunity for all employees to learn and employees at all levels on new initiatives and develop is a crucial factor in the Companys future developments, promotional activity, product success.
The learning and development team is ranges, the effectiveness of processes, key committed to a vision of inspiring and enabling issues and reactions to key messages.
individuals to reach their full potential.
Through offering a wide mix of training courses and Every senior manager in head office participates programmes Debenhams encourages its employees in the adopt-a-store scheme.
This enhances to enhance their skills and excel in their jobs.
communication and the appreciation of key issues between the stores and head office, Two Debenhams employees were recognised focuses a head office manager on improving by Retail Week in their 2006 Rising Star awards.
the performance of a particular store, and Marcus Appleton was awarded winner of the provides to head office employees the Store Management Star of the Year and Jane Exon opportunity to work more closely with Store Support Manager of the Year.
customers and understand their needs.
Health and safety Nigel Palmer, Retail Operations Director, chairs the Company Health and Safety Committee, which meets quarterly and is made up of representatives from all areas of the business.
The findings of these meetings are communicated throughout the business.
In addition there are interim meetings of a smaller group also every quarter on operational issues.
Jane Exon collecting her Store Support Manager of the Year award Debenhams employs an Environmental Health and Safety Manager, a Food Quality Assurance The Company encourages communication with Manager and product technologists to manage its employees and promotes opportunities for the application of policies and procedures in regular feedback in a number of ways, including: general health and safety, food safety and product safety.
In relevant circumstances the Company The Employee Consultation Forum: the also appoints consultants, with appropriate employee representatives on the forum are expertise, to advise on specific safety-related consulted and gather information and views matters.
from the employees they represent on business initiatives and issues including Debenhams has specific partnership Company structure, new working methods and arrangements with two local authorities: Luton changes in policy and practice.
Discussions on Borough Council on matters of general health these matters then take place at meetings and safety and Westminster Council on matters with senior executives of the Company.
of food safety and trading standards.
The intranet site sets out Company and HR In addition to the Company committee, every policies and procedures and gives information store also has a health and safety committee.
on departmental and individual objectives and The minutes from these meetings are published achievements.
In addition it provides regular to the store and reviewed by the Environmental updates on Whats New and a calendar of Health and Safety Manager.
Each store also has events.
an elected store safety representative, who is a member of the committee.
Business News, a quarterly magazine, keeps employees up to date on key business The maintenance of safety standards and the performance and initiatives, divisional priorities performance of key health and safety tasks form and product launches.
a major part of the risk management review, which is conducted at least once every two years, The executive directors hold regular sessions in every store.
The outcome and remedial actions with a cross-section of volunteers from around required after risk management inspections are the business who sit on the Chief Executives followed up by the store manager, sales director Feedback Forum.
The forum provides an and the risk management team.
informal opportunity for the directors to receive open and honest feedback from 20 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Debenhams believes that the key to maintaining Each year one specific week of the stores trading a safe environment for both employees and calendar has a focus on health and safety.
Last customers is through training on general safety year emphasis was placed on the control of for all employees when they are initially employed contractors working in stores and on matters of and through a programme of training on new working at height.
This year the focus will be on developments, policies and trends.
In addition, fire safety and slips, trips and falls.
Debenhams recognises the training needs of specific roles and accordingly provides bespoke Debenhams records and reviews its performance training: training is provided for: in relation to the number and nature of the accidents reportable to the enforcement Technical service advisors and selling support authority.
Despite the increasing customer managers on the management and numbers in the Companys premises each year supervision of health and safety through in excess of 15 million the results set out below attendance on approved Chartered Institute demonstrate an encouragingly low level of and of Environmental Health courses.
improving trend in major accidents incidents.
Foodservices sales managers through Store accessibility intermediate food hygiene courses and The Company, having provided in June of this in-house training on the principles of Hazard year all the data required, is now featured on the Analysis of Critical Control Points and its Direct Access website.
This provides information implementation in Debenhams food about the facilities available to disabled customers operations.
including: All food handlers on basic food safety Designated parking spaces proximate to a computer-based programme accredited accessible entrances.
Details of accessible entrances either Technical services advisors on basic electrical automatic doors or mall entrances.
competence delivered by the Institute of Electrical Engineers.
Passenger lift facilities including disabled hoists.
Basic electrical safety for employees working in the lighting department.
Those working in the loading bay on safety Accessible toilets.
considerations associated with their work environment.
The loss prevention teams on conflict Collect-by and carry-to-car arrangements.
resolution, restraint and personal safety.
Details of accessible customer collection points.
Induction loops and or arrangements for confidential conversations.
Reportable accidents to sta and customers 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 StaCustomers 21 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Number of people CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Debenhams has since 1995 designed every new store and modernisation on the basis of full accessibility.
Certain older stores in total 17 stores not subject to such modernisation had mezzanine levels without lifts or ramps which were an impediment to access.
Measures have now been taken in all these stores so as to provide accessibility to all mezzanine areas.
Debenhams has supported the Breast Cancer Campaign for five years.
Charitable activities Debenhams supports the Breast Cancer Campaign.
In 2005 06 over 300,000 was raised through the sale of selected products and by locating pink ribbon pin badges with money boxes at all till points.
The store volunteer committees support local fundraising events such as fashion shows.
The Give As You Earn scheme provides employees with the opportunity to make regular tax-efficient donations to the charity of their choice through the payroll system, without incurring any administration charges.
22 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006 Oxford Street, one of the 14 stores that was modernised during the year 23 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2006
