CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Dimension Datas Corporate Social Responsibility In Asia, we have forged strong links and a rewarding CSR philosophy is to make a difference to the relationship with World Vision.
Through their child lives of people in the communities within which it sponsorship programme, we support over 80 children living operates.
We look to step outside of the business in deprived conditions across the region.
In addition, we have worked on-site and contributed to schools, street sphere to participate more broadly in our children shelters and childrens homes, and provided flood communities.
OUR APPROACH CASE STUDIES We apply the same principles to CSR as we do to our business.
Dimension Data Saturday School We look for sustainable projects where progress can be measured, with accountability and results.
We involve our Last year we celebrated the 10 year anniversary of the workforce by supporting causes they tell us are important to Dimension Data Saturday School in South Africa.
The school, them, and encourage them to get personally involved.
This has operating from our offices at the Campus in Sandton, was a secondary benefit for the organisation, providing an enriching opened in 1995 and introduces youngsters from disadvantaged experience for our people.
backgrounds to technology and broader skills.
The grade 11 and 12 students are taught by volunteers, many of them Dimension Data employees, who give their time to helping OUR CSR PROGRAMME: OVERVIEW disadvantaged children further their education and gain job We support a range of diverse initiatives across the Group.
region focuses on local programmes identified by local employees and management.
Given that Dimension Data is a technology business, the Saturday School initiative will be leveraged to reach thousands In Africa the focus is mainly on technology enabling of young South Africans, through the introduction of an education, skills training and mentorship.
Our Saturday e-Learning Management System in government schools.
School project provides tutoring of disadvantaged children for their matriculation exams.
We also support a variety of Network of Hope diverse projects such as Business Against Crime and the In March 2006, Dimension Data in North America launched a National Paralympic Committee.
programme named Network of Hope.
The mission is to help our employees to extend their skills and time to contribute to the In Europe, our focus is on social and health initiatives.
For betterment of their communities.
Employees can make financial example, our UK offices support cancer research, by way of contributions through payroll deductions, while we build a financial support and fundraising events.
In France we defined local programme.
We allot eight hours of time off to sponsored a programme that supports sick and socially each employee annually so that they have the freedom to disadvantaged children.
In Sweden, we support Unicef, volunteer and support local activities and organisations.
while in the Netherlands, our primary beneficiary was cancer research.
One initiative is response and assistance in the event of a regional emergency.
We will assess and assist our employees, Our Australian business contributes to social leadership customers and partners when necessary.
programmes and environmental projects, not only with monetary contributions, but also through volunteer efforts, We also work with two charitable organisations: The United Way training and staff time.
Our involvement in Social Ventures and City Year.
United Way is a national network of more than Australias community mentoring programme, has been very 1,300 locally-governed organisations.
Building on more than a successful.
century of service as the nations pre-eminent community-based In the US, contributions are made to various charitable fundraiser, United Way engages the community to identify the institutions.
We have also launched a regional progamme, most significant local issues, develops strategies and pulls Network of Hope, to empower and support employees together financial and human resources to address them.
City involvement in local communities.
Year unites young people of all backgrounds, aged 17 to 24, for PAGE 35 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued a year of community service and leadership development.
City sponsorship partnership with World Vision and we sponsored a Year partners their volunteer leaders with business leaders to total of 83 children living in 13 countries or territories in the develop exciting projects for under-privileged youth.
Asian region, including Bangladesh, China, India, Korea, Thailand and Vietnam.
These donations, managed by World Social Ventures Australia Vision, were used for essential items like: We aim not only to build our employees skills for today, but to develop leadership qualities for the future.
Food and water: With this in mind, Dimension Data was one of the first Healthcare and sanitation: companies to participate in Social Ventures Australias year-long Education: community mentoring programme.
Social Ventures is a nonprofit organisation which matches business leaders with social Income generation projects: and entrepreneurs from non-profit organisations.
During FY2006, Dimension Data has mentored and worked with various Capacity building in the communities where the children charitable organisations including: Social Ventures Australia, live.
Starlight Foundation, Ozgreen, Activate, Marian Centre and the Aside from our primary affiliation with World Vision, we Mirabel Foundation.
undertook several other initiatives in the Asian region.
These The Carecraft Programme Asia include support of the Prince of Peace Childrens Home and In Asia, our CSR projects are directed by the Carecraft Child Rehabilitation Centre in Tianjin, China, sponsorship of programme.
We execute this programme by partnering with World Visions Student Sponsorship Programme in China, and reputable non-governmental bodies such as World Vision, and school renovation and cleaning projects in Indonesia.
by direct personal involvement in areas of need in the community.
In 2005, Datacraft entered into a region-wide child PAGE 36
