Corporate Responsibility Review Corporate Responsibility Review Business has a responsibility to the of CR progress, the Board discussed ways to improve performance and the development of international wider community.
We believe this means CR policies.
listening and responding to our employees, The Board recognises there are risks inherent in the customers, investors, to regulators and management of major brands, and keeps abreast of regulations and best practice to do what is necessary to our business partners and suppliers.
We have always considered corporate citizenship to be Historically, our Disability Working Group has set an integral part of our working practice rather than a strategy to improve service and opportunities for discrete activity.
When assessing any major new strategy, disabled customers and employees.
During the the Board considers the corporate responsibility CR year, the group was merged into the newly created dimensions.
The illustration opposite demonstrates Diversity Working Group with a remit to monitor and the integration of ethical and environmentally sound communicate diversity best practice throughout the processes into our operations.
It describes the journey Group.
It is the Boards clearly stated policy that no of a product through our supply chain, and shows individual will be discriminated against on the basis of where we aim to improve our use of resources social age, gender, sexual orientation, nationality, ethnic origin, responsibility in practice.
religious beliefs, disability, or for any other reason.
This end-to-end approach underpins all our CR The Group remains a constituent member of the thinking, and fits our statement of business principles, Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and FTSE4GOOD.
Being the Best: operating with honesty and integrity: giving outstanding service to customers: respecting our colleagues: and continually seeking ways to improve performance.
com aboutus ourvalues This year we have restructured and simplified our CR Review here and online at www.
Within sections on Corporate Governance, Workplace, Marketplace, Community and Environment we explain our policies and performance, including an update on the key performance indicators introduced last year.
Corporate Governance Gender, ethnicity and age of employees Corporate responsibility is monitored by the Groups 2005 06 2004 05 CR Committee, chaired by the Company Secretary, Female 33% 32% which reports regularly to the Board.
The Committee Male 67% 68% does not implement CR policies directly but monitors Full time 59% 58% the Groups businesses to ensure CR policies and practices Part time 41% 42% are embedded into their operations.
In the 2005 06 Ethnic minority non national 19% 14% financial year the CR Committee met five times.
Over 50 8% 8% The Group Finance Director is the executive director Average number of employees 40,012 40,450 with responsibility for CR matters.
In its annual review 20 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Our CR philosophy from design to disposal Environment Community Workplace Marketplace Design Restriction of hazardous substances Packaging specification Supply 100 per cent recycled content carrier bags Component operational specifications Workplace standards Exclusives own brand development Product compliance checks Ethical supply policies covering merchandise and non-merchandise Procurement policy covering business ethics Distribution Vehicle purchasing policies Fuel use efficiency measures Store site Route planning Building design and operation measures Building design and operation measures Site recycling facilities Site recycling facilities Local community involvement activity Waste and hazardous waste management facilities Group HR policies Customer advice on appliance efficiency Local community involvement activity Group HR policies Employee training and development Building design measures for health and safety and accessibility Use Online information product use recycling site locator Disposal Collection of old items on delivery Energy efficient appliances Specialist recycling and disposal services Compliance with safety standards for redundant goods Specialist battery recycling for stores Packaging compaction and recycling services Fonebak phone reuse and recycling Charitable partnerships Corporate Responsibility Review strengthen a sense of team.
Every store is measured Workplace The satisfaction and engagement of our colleagues through a balanced scorecard which includes colleague and customer satisfaction scores.
Similar schemes are is critical to the success of our business.
We apply a cradle to grave approach to CR best practice in being trialled elsewhere in the Group.
the workplace, from recruitment to post retirement We are committed to measuring the success of our programmes.
Employees are encouraged to work stores through customer satisfaction as well as sales.
within our Being the Best principles, creating a In April 2006, following an extensive consultation working environment in which respect for each other, programme, PC World made a major change to its customers and suppliers is paramount.
Under the change programme One policies on health and safety, training and development Team, individual sales commissions were replaced and equality are all key strands of our workplace remit.
with a Team Bonus geared to reward customer Employees across the Group are involved in the satisfaction results and overall store performance.
implementation of changes to operations and working We have revised our in-store training process from a practices.
Dialogue is encouraged through staff forums modular plan to vocational learning to make it easier where each business operation is represented by for working parents and flexible workers to complete elected members.
These include a European Forum their training.
chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
The Groups ethical behaviour policy, which forms part of all Our six monthly Group-wide employee engagement employees contracts, requires employees to avoid survey continues to measure how closely we adhere conflicts between their personal interests and their to our Being the Best principles.
Those colleagues role in the conduct of Group business.
Under our considered to have best demonstrated their whistle-blowing procedures, employees may contact commitment to Being the Best are recognised and an independent body to register concerns about any rewarded in our annual Chief Executive Awards.
This aspect of business practice.
Major Group news is year a record number of employees were nominated delivered through face-to-face briefings and in our by colleagues, and from 75 shortlisted winners, seven employee newsletter and intranet site Frontline.
were chosen as divisional winners.
Performance based remuneration schemes are We continue to promote the health, safety and welfare of our colleagues and visitors to our stores operated widely across the Group and over 12,500 employees participate in the Groups various shareand other sites.
This goes beyond the provision of a healthy environment into operational training, support based incentive schemes.
for work-related injuries and ill health, including We welcomed the recent UK regulations on rehabilitation programmes, and effective risk planning Age Discrimination.
In the last five years, through and management.
The latter was successfully tested in positive action on diversity, the average age of our December 2005 following the major explosion at the UK workforce has increased by about two years.
Buncefield oil storage terminal, adjacent to our Group We have store managers in their early 20s right up headquarters in Hemel Hempstead.
Thankfully, no one to colleagues in their 70s reflecting our view that was injured and alternative working arrangements age should be no barrier to the development and were rapidly put in place for all 2,000 employees based fulfilment of everyones potential.
Approximately 1,300 of them were relocated in our main building within two weeks of the incident.
During the year we changed the way Currys store teams operate.
This was designed to improve the Accidents and injuries shopping experience for our customers and the 2005 06 2004 05 working experience of our colleagues.
Store teams Number of accidents or injuries to staff 2,856 3,374 are encouraged to grow their own business by sharing responsibility and accountability for changing Number of working days lost as a result of accidents to staff in the last year 4,200 5,066 operations and solving problems locally.
As colleagues who are committed to their role are more likely to use More information is available in our 2005 06 Health & initiative and suggest innovations, managers regularly review employee morale and look at practical ways to Safety Report.
com cr h&s 22 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 obligations.
Trade creditors at 29 April 2006 represented Marketplace CR in the marketplace encompasses everything from 44 days of annual purchases made during the period.
our supplier relationships and sourcing policies, to customer safety and accessibility, and the provision Community of product information and after-sales support.
We We aim to foster good relationships in the communities take a virtuous circle approach.
Our employees dedicated thousands The Business Standards department is responsible of hours to charitable and voluntary activities in the for reviewing and developing policies and systems to last year.
This was recognised in September 2005 when protect customers, and works with stores and central the Group was named Community Business of the Year operations to ensure compliance with consumer in the Dacorum Business Awards, given by the authorities regulations.
The team also works in collaboration local to our headquarters in Hemel Hempstead.
with Trading Standards and other regulators and The employees who develop the most innovative enforcement bodies to maintain a high level of focus approach to volunteering are acknowledged at our on compliance and complaint resolution.
Its ongoing annual Switched on to Volunteering awards.
This year, Building Bridges engagement programme has delivered every entrant received a 250 grant, with 13 overall a significant reduction in the number of issues raised.
winners from around the Group each receiving 500 www.
com cr businessstandards for their chosen charity.
We continue to promote our Ethical Purchasing Policy.
The Groups registered charity, The DSG international www.
Potential own-brand Foundation, supports employee volunteers in addition suppliers are required to sign a detailed agreement to the 300 charities and community groups it funds for which covers all aspects of ethical sourcing before specific projects or equipment purchases.
They are independently audited more than 875,000 was donated to the Foundation.
We take an industry leading position in demanding corrective action plans should Value of cash, staff time, and we find any discrepancies and we constantly update goods donated by the business our risk monitors.
Performance on ethical supply chain standards code 2005 06 2004 05 05 06 1,859,086 Meets requirements 15 39 04 05 1,718,086 Minor improvement required 44 30 03 04 1,494,146 Major corrective action required 27 15 02 03 1,206,088 Delisted 1 7 The Group is working with Digital UK and the Total factories audited 87 91 Department of Culture, Media and Sport to raise awareness of and provide insight into the impact We carried out 102 audits in 87 factories of 78 suppliers of the forthcoming switchover of the UKs television during the year to ensure suppliers were working to signal from analogue to digital.
In November, a trial our ethical supply code.
We found a lower pass rate started in Bolton where 450 homes were switched among suppliers this year, partly due to stricter terms.
over to digital television in advance of the national As a result we are working with suppliers to educate programme.
We supplied the equipment and our and improve performance.
engineers will provide ongoing technical advice.
This Our commitment to responsible conduct with suppliers trial helps all stakeholders understand the reality of includes the introduction of a new accounts payable the switchover and how best to deliver the switchover system for simpler processing.
It is the Groups policy message and subsequent support.
A critical focus of to agree terms of payment with its suppliers.
Payments the trial is to understand how disadvantaged sectors are made in accordance with these terms provided that of the community can be assisted and prepared for the supplier has complied with all relevant contractual digital broadcasting.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 23 Corporate Responsibility Review A partnership with the Carbon Trust is helping us to find new ways of reducing energy consumption.
We aim to achieve a 70 per cent recycling rate for UK store waste over the coming year.
In 2005, we gave our support to the development of a chemical database administered by the British Retail Consortium BRC.
The BRC searches regionally, nationally and internationally for lists of chemical substances considered to be of concern by governments, regulators and non-governmental organisations and interest groups.
We use this information, internally and with our suppliers, to evaluate the appropriateness of materials used in the products we sell and to phase out any undesirable chemicals.
PC World Business and Genesis: Supporting their local community The Europe-wide Restriction of the use of certain Volunteers from the offices of PC World Business and Genesis Hazardous Substance Regulations RoHS were recently in Bury helped improve conditions in the gardens at Lords introduced.
The regulations ban the sale of electrical House Farm in Bury, a centre which caters for the disabled, equipment containing more than permitted levels of and Freshfields in Burnley, where people with learning substances such as lead, cadmium and mercury.
To ensure difficulties grow plants and flowers for sale.
Other volunteering projects include mentoring pupils at local schools and supporting the compliance of our products, we have followed the Young Enterprise schemes with the aim of raising educational developments of the RoHS for some years, advising our attainment levels.
Colleagues also raised more than 17,000 business partners accordingly.
In 2006 we contracted the in the last year for charities including North Manchester British Standards Institute BSI as independent auditors Macmillan Cancer Relief and the East Manchester Hospice.
of our suppliers manufacturing facilities, a process that exceeds our obligations.
Compliance training will be Our Young Futures campaign raised 475,000 for given to our suppliers as part of this assessment.
NCH, Childline and the Teenage Cancer Trust through in-store badge sales, recycling and other fundraising activities.
This, and previous charity of the year initiatives have so far generated 2.5 million.
Social inclusion is the driving force behind changes we are making to our community support.
We have introduced Switched on Communities, a three year international campaign supporting a wide variety of projects with the common theme of bringing technology and training to under-resourced communities and groups.
Partners will include the E-Learning Foundation, AbilityNet, Foyer Foundation and EnCams, for its EcoSchools programme.
com switchedon Volume of recycled waste tonnes has the full details and campaign targets.
2005 06 2004 05 Environment Waste recycled 25,607 22,985 We are committed to increasing our understanding of the impacts of our business on ecosystems and To date, we have implemented the Waste Electrical and resources.
Taking steps to reduce these impacts is high Electronic Equipment WEEE Directive in 10 countries on our agenda.
Our environmental considerations of operation.
The Directive introduces new recovery encompass the full manufacture and usage chain, and recycling services for electronic and electrical from the design of products through to their sale, goods.
In many countries the Group offers in-store use and ultimate disposal.
facilities for recycling collection and disposal.
24 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 International WEEE implementation More information at www.
com cr environment Country Chain Stores Implemented Method Ireland PC World, 21 August 2005 Retail take-back and Membership of the European Recycling Dixons, Currys Platform ERP.
Collection points also at Local Authority sites.
Hungary Electro World 6 August 2005 Retail take-back.
Czech Republic Electro World 8 August 2005 Retail take-back.
Sweden El Giganten, PC City 59 August 2005 Finland Gigantti, Markantalo 43 August 2005 Take-back at stores and upon delivery.
12% of WEEE in the Nordic countries is recovered through our stores.
Iceland Elko 2 January 2006 Denmark El Giganten 29 April 2006 Norway Elkjp, Lefdal Lavpris 96 Operates its own similar non-WEEE national requirements.
Take-back at stores and upon delivery.
Spain PC City 25 January 2006 To local Government or retail collection points and upon delivery.
Greece Kotsovolos 77 January 2006 Take-back at stores and municipal sites.
France PC City 11 June 2006 Local authority points, retailer collection points and some installed by manufacturers.
Italy UniEuro, PC City 117 Underway Retail take-back.
Poland Electro World 2 End 2006 Retail take-back and membership of the ERP.
digital, 1,013 2007 To local Government collection points or to retail collection PC World, The Link, points.
We plan to continue collecting on delivery for larger Dixons items.
We currently collect more than 500,000 items a year.
Our environmental targets for the coming year include: We are encouraged by the progress of our CR agenda, shown by mostly improved scores in the to extend the use of 100 per cent recycled content key performance indicators, and action taken in plastic carrier bags from the UK to our international those areas requiring attention.
A full agenda of chains: proactive policies underpins every part of our business, to develop the provision of recycling services within strengthened by our virtuous circle approach from the business and for customers wherever possible: design to disposal.
By combining good corporate citizenship with operational excellence, we aim to to develop an updated set of energy saving measures grow our business internationally to the benefit of as guidance for stores and subsequently require each all our shareholders.
business to make a commitment to CO saving: and 2 to identify and offer a greater level of choice and advice to customers with regard to the purchase of efficient appliances and the efficient operation Kevin OByrne of appliances.
Group Finance Director Last year we published our first environmental indicator, giving details of the volume of waste recycled throughout the Group.
We are pleased to report this is the Groups sixth consecutive year of increased recycled waste volumes.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 25
