Foodservice Group Our sustainability strategy The Group has made sustainability an important business We have encapsulated our thinking in a Green Paper driver in recent years and has sought to accelerate progress Environmental Code that we are making widely available as the issues achieve greater awareness across the with policy setters and within the industry.
The Aga itself is a recycled product being made largely from In foodservice we continue to urge customers to bring back old cast iron and it is a product which lasts for decades.
of house to front of mind and highlight the need to improve A purchaser of an Aga today can avoid repeat purchases energy efficiency in the commercial kitchen.
We believe that over the next 25 years of standard ovens, microwaves, over 3 billion on energy bills can be saved by the sector kettles, tumble dryers as well as having the benefit of a and 20 million tonnes of carbon saved just in the UK by warm kitchen and reducing their central heating switching to new energy efficient equipment.
But there is more to be done to commercial kitchen is among the largest targets ensure that each installation is well insulated: that which needs addressing and one of the most burners are modern and efficient.
In our work the straightforward.
The technology is available the electric Aga was a breakthrough - not only is it will is needed.
highly efficient in energy use, but we can now also introduce programmability so that it can be turned We are delighted that for the second year in a row on and down or off to match the customers needs.
we have been made manufacturing Energy Star We have Rayburns and Stanleys which are Partner of the Year by the US Federal Government, programmable already and provide hot water, reflecting our work with refrigeration, fryers, central heating and cooking and Agas which can run on boilerless steamers and combi-ovens.
Now having a 13 amp plugs requiring small amounts of energy over longer tremendous package for the growing accelerated cooking periods because the heat is stored in the cast iron.
We see market we are attuned to the needs of our foodservice in the medium term the Aga has exciting potential as linking customers, large chains and individual outlets.
We believe in to the micro generation of electricity from solar or in that Government has a role to play focussing on the clarity particular from wind turbines because it can store energy of its expectations, setting standards and only buying made available often when in a domestic context it is not products itself which meet the standards it has set, and it needed.
We would like to think Aga and Rayburn should rely on cajoling through subsidy rather less.
households through having fewer kitchen appliances overall In our consumer operations we are working to ensure that and a product with a long lifespan and with the multi-fuel the whole life costings of our products are appreciated by options available, including wood, biofuels as well as gas our customers and we are looking to modernise products to and electric can have an exciting part to play at the forefront ensure that they are as efficient and practical as can be.
and relevant to changing consumer needs.
Victory V Series reach in freezer.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 82 83 We have installed a wind turbine at our Aga Telford factory to produce electricity for our Research and Development Centre and are testing the economics of running Agas using the wind turbine.
Across our consumer products we have established a strong reputation for efficiency.
Our Rangemaster ovens are A rated for efficiency and this is reflected in sector awards like the one received from Good Housekeeping in 2006.
Our product development programmes here also look at energy consumption and we would expect to be at the forefront in bringing induction cooking to mainstream cooking appliances.
We consider induction has an important role to play because it is so responsive and we are now launching induction options for our Falcon cookers.
Our sustainability strategy for the products we market links back into our production processes.
An overall sustainability strategy has been put to and considered by the board and we have placed growing onus on our work internally to cut energy consumption and to raise efficiency standards.
Our Rangemaster sites are ISO 14001 accredited and we have in place a rolling programme to add more units to the list, with Falcon scheduled to achieve ISO 14001 accreditation during 2007.
We are pleased with the substantial progress we have made in driving the sustainability debate in our sectors and will continue to participate fully in wider sustainability initiatives.
The wind turbine at the Aga Telford factory.
3 oven Electric Aga runs using a 13 amp plug.
Foodservice Group Web addresses Aga Foodservice Group plc La Cornue Esmach www.
net Falcon Foodservice Equipment www.
com Northland-Marvel Consumer Products www.
com Infinity Fryers Agalinks www.
com Rangemaster Millers Vanguard Aga Ranges www.
com Waterford Stanley Mono Equipment Aga Rayburn www.
co. uk Pavailler Cookware and accessories Foodservice Products www.
com Serviceline Adamatic Divertimenti www.
co. uk Stellar Steam Aga Bakery Domain www.
com Victory Refrigeration Amana Falcon www.
co. uk Williams Refrigeration Belshaw Fired Earth www.
com Grange Bongard Other websites www.
