Foodservice Group Corporate social responsibility Introduction Stakeholder engagement Our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR In accordance with our Statement of Core Principles, the Group engages in proactive dialogue with stakeholders and is encapsulated in our Statement of Core Principles which in particular liaises with shareholders, employees, sets out our undertaking to act ethically and responsibly in customers, suppliers, local communities, government all our business relationships and dealings with bodies, other authorities and non-governmental stakeholders.
We are committed to continuous organisations.
This includes regular customer surveys, improvements in all aspects of CSR our policies, our surveys of suppliers and reviews of the impact of our systems, our performance and our reporting.
As a supplier of premium cooking and refrigeration Human resources equipment to consumer and commercial foodservice markets, the Group sees a key part of its CSR programme During the year, the Group employed some 6,000 people in as the development of products and services which help our twelve countries and they are key to the Groups ongoing customers to address a number of key issues including success.
Some 96% of our staff are permanent employees, energy efficiency, healthier eating, improved food quality and 75% are male and 25% are female.
Of the individuals hygiene in both commercial and domestic kitchens.
Thus, in employed in management roles 68% are male and 32% are addition to our work to improve the CSR-related female.
performance of our own operations we also help our Employees by segment customers to address a number of the key CSR-related average per year issues they face.
US Consumer 672 In order to help raise the profile and awareness of CSR across the Group, the board makes two awards each year: the chairmans award for environmental improvement, and UK & European the Group CSR award which is presented to the business Foodservice with the most significant CSR initiative or has made the 2,241 most progress in this area during the year.
This report is supplemented by the Groups 2006 CSR Report which will be published on our website before the UK & European AGM in May 2007.
Consumer Management 2,650 US Foodservice 449 The board of Aga Foodservice Group plc recognises the importance of and takes ownership for CSR, which is reviewed as part of the ongoing risk management process.
The chief operating officer, Stephen Rennie, is responsible for the implementation of the Groups CSR polices, for Employees by region ensuring that objectives and targets are achieved and that average per year the board is kept up to date on CSR issues.
He is supported by the Group human resources director and CSR Europe 1,301 co-ordinator.
The managing director of each business has operational responsibility for CSR and is accountable to the chief operating officer for CSR matters.
The Group undertakes a rolling programme of internal CSR audits which are conducted by functional specialists UK 3,385 North supported by external advisers where appropriate.
During America the year six CSR audits were conducted at sites in Europe 1,055 and North America, bringing to twenty five the total number of sites audited over the past three years.
Rest of World 271 CSR reporting and benchmarking The Groups annual CSR report is published on the The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities and corporate website in May each year.
The report includes recruits, selects and promotes employees on the basis of further details of policies, procedures and performance, with their skills, qualifications, attitude and aptitude.
In case study examples describing implementation across the accordance with UN guidance, the Group prohibits the Group.
Aga Foodservice Group is a member of the employment of under age employees.
The Group invests in FTSE4Good index and uses this index in conjunction with its people and we encourage them to develop to their stakeholder consultations and other benchmarks to help maximum potential according to the needs of our identify key priorities and to drive progress.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 34 35 Human resources policies Health, safety and environmental The Groups Code of Conduct for employees outlines the The Group sees environmental and health and safety matters as being of key importance and is committed to the standards of integrity and honest conduct expected, and continuous improvement of its performance in these areas explains that breaches of Company policy may result in to enhance the overall sustainability of its operations, disciplinary action and dismissal.
The Groups products and services.
A summary of our progress during whistleblowing policy is posted on the Groups website in the year is included here and further details will be set out in the Code of Conduct and enables employees to report in our 2006 CSR Report.
confidence and without fear of retribution any breaches of the Code of Conduct, fraud or any other criminal acts.
All The Groups environmental and health and safety policies employees world-wide may use the the internal whistleare underpinned by detailed procedures which have been blowing provisions and UK and US employees may adopted within each of the Groups operations.
Business alternatively use the external services set up in those areas.
unit managers are responsible for their implementation and All calls received are logged and monitored by the audit and for keeping all concerned informed of best practice and the risk committee and appropriate action taken.
Policies and practices are reviewed and updated for changes in legislation and employees are The Group requires its operating units to comply with its made aware of the policies and their responsibility to ensure equal opportunities policy and it does not tolerate that these are effectively applied.
The managing director at harassment in any form.
The equal opportunities policy each business unit is responsible for issues at a local level stipulates that operating units throughout the Group must and reports directly to the chief operating officer on these ensure that this procedure is implemented and that there is matters.
equal opportunity of employment, retention, promotion and training regardless of race, ethnic or national origin, gender, The Groups European and North American health, safety marital status, age, sexual orientation, religion, trade union and environmental committees meet regularly to review standards, set targets for improvement and to benchmark, membership or disability and that appropriate consideration leverage and promote best practice.
As noted above, the is given to disabled applicants in terms of employment system of CSR audits supports the work of the committees taking into account local legislation.
Special consideration is and external consultants are utilised when specific needs given to the training and continuing development of arise.
employees who may become disabled whilst in our employment.
During the year, the Group extended, updated and standardised its processes for gathering health and safety Employee engagement and environmental data.
These cover some 97% of the The Group recognises the importance of effective two-way Group measured by sales, up from 85% in 2005.
As a communication in helping keep employees motivated and in result, some comparisons with prior years may not be fully maintaining constructive relationships.
Business unit valid and some of the key performance indicators KPI we management hold face-to-face briefing sessions to keep now focus on going forward were not monitored on a global employees informed of developments across the Group and basis prior to 2006. receive feedback.
This communication is supported by a Health and safety targets and performance variety of means including the Group newsletter, The Aga The Group monitors both lost time and non-lost time Times, which is updated online and is distributed regularly accidents, their causes and the amount of time lost at all to employees.
A number of the Group companies have their operating units and sets annual improvement targets.
own newsletters and employees are encouraged to access the Groups websites and the local intranet, where available, Lost time as a percentage of total time worked was reduced and select businesses carry out employee surveys.
The Group will place increased emphasis on return The Group has a long-established Human Resources HR to work management in 2007 in order to improve this Forum in UK.
There are equivalent HR structures in our key further and has set a revised target for 2007 as noted businesses in North America and in other European below.
In 2006, the Group had planned to target a 5% countries.
The forums monitor compliance with national regulatory requirements, staff absence and turnover, KPI 2005 2006 Increase diversity in the workplace and flexible working practices.
decrease Voluntary staff turnover during the year was on average 14% Lost Working Time 0.27% 0.25% 7 % across our retail, service and manufacturing business.
LTAs 100k hours - 2.8 - Training and development Total accidents 100k hrs 14.0 16.4 17% The Group invests in the capabilities of its employees and Days lost per LTA - 11.1 - encourages them to be fully involved in their development and training.
Over 3,000 days of off-the-job training were Lost time accidents i. e. those resulting in lost time of one or more days not recorded during the year.
During 2007, the Group plans to including the day of the accident per 100,000 hours worked.
pilot an international management development programme - KPI was not monitored Group-wide prior to 2006. to help identify leadership talent and to support succession Total accidents include lost time and non-lost time accidents i. e. where the planning across the Group.
employee returns to work on the day of the accident.
Foodservice Group Corporate social responsibility reduction in total accidents world-wide.
During the year we The Group supports the adoption and implementation of decided to record all minor accidents in order to assist with environmental management systems at its operating the identification and management of health and safety risks businesses.
Some fourteen sites have environmental and therefore data was not comparable with prior years.
management systems in place, including two which are Consequently the Group reassessed its targets during this accredited to ISO 14001.
The Group is targeting one further year.
We monitor accident causes on a consistent global site to achieve ISO 14001 certification in 2007. basis now with the most common causes of accidents across In addition to its efforts to reduce the environmental impact the Group being manual handling, cuts and abrasions.
of its day-to-day activities, the Group also seeks to minimise Going forward we will focus on the frequency of lost time the risk of environmental pollution incidents.
If such accidents and the time lost per accident.
Accordingly, the incidents occur, the Group has in place a policy for prompt Group has set new health and safety targets for 2007 as corrective action to be taken, and where appropriate follows: provides notification to the regulatory authorities.
During the 12% reduction in lost time accident frequency to 2.5LTAs year, there were no fines or prosecutions as a result of 100k hours: health and safety or environmental incidents.
10% reduction in the average time lost per LTA to 10 days.
Sustainability Further details of our 2006 performance and our 2007 Following the significant work undertaken by the Group over targets will be included in our 2006 CSR report.
the last three years in relation to raising energy efficiency Environmental targets and performance standards and to reduce waste in the commercial kitchen, the Group has developed and is launching an Environmental The Groups environmental impacts cover a range of areas, Code.
The objectives are to set out sector best practice in such as energy use and the resultant climate change related product and operational terms: to highlight improvements emissions, water consumption, transport, and the waste and recycling arising from our manufacturing processes and with current technologies: to set timeframes for general business operations.
improvements and to address the key product sectors refrigeration, ranges, fryers and service with specific The Groups energy-related emissions intensity continued to recommendations for each.
The Group will be presenting fall during the year, partly as a result of increased awareness the Code to major customers to highlight what they can of energy costs.
Water use indexed to sales rose marginally, this was partially due to improved monitoring and achieve if they turn their attention to it: to DEFRA and measurement of this resource.
Where individual sites have regulatory bodies, so that they have real options and focussed on water reduction programmes, considerable standards available: and to industry bodies and other savings have been achieved.
A high proportion of the manufacturers because the sector should challenge itself.
Groups total waste is recycled.
In 2006, this included over The Group has calculated that with the Code in place in the 8,000 tonnes of metal, 1,244 tonnes of wood and over 750 UK alone, carbon dioxide emissions can be cut by 20 million tonnes of cardboard and paper.
tonnes per annum and energy bills cut by 3 billion per The Group has implemented a new set of environmental annum.
The Group is calling for the methodology used to targets for 2007.
These targets and the progress in meeting support Energy Star and ECA grants to become standard them will be further reported in the annual CSR report with requirements and the gap between burner efficiencies in the the key features being: domestic and commercial markets to be closed.
Concerns 2 relating to climate change and the opportunity to improve Energy emissions intensity: 2.5% reduction in tonnes CO per m revenue: performance standards is something the Group has been advocating for a number of years and the Group believes Water use intensity: 3% reduction in cubic metres of water that addressing these issues will result in accelerated capital per m revenue: replacement cycles with an emphasis on the types of energy Waste intensity: 3% reduction in tonnes waste per m efficient products the Group has invested in.
Further revenue: information on our sustainabilty strategy is shown on pages Waste recycling: 2% increase in waste recycled.
Area KPI 2005 2006 Increase decrease 2 Energy emissions intensity Tonnes CO per m revenue 90 85 6 % Water use intensity Cubic metres of water per m revenue 289 292 1% Waste intensity Tonnes total waste per m revenue - 28 - Waste recycling % of total waste recycled - 73% - Includes all energy sources with electricity converted using country specific electricity factors.
- KPI was not monitored Group-wide prior to 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 36 37 The Group 2006 awards for environmental and CSR projects, educational establishments, charities and other causes.
This support may be via donations, fundraising or The Groups awards were once again successful in personal time and commitment.
Our retail businesses have encouraging employees to suggest environmental organised events and allowed charities to hold meetings in improvements and improve CSR performance.
As will be the Groups outlets.
Charitable initiatives can include further detailed in our 2006 CSR report the 2006 chairmans financial and product donations, equipment maintenance environmental award was presented to Aga Rayburn for the and employee involvement.
Liaison on community issues is significant work undertaken on product development encouraged and comments are logged, responded to and initiatives including Rayburns 95% efficient gas burners: reviewed at Group level.
Further information will be included Aga intelligent management systems and microgeneration in the Groups 2006 CSR report.
The 2006 CSR award for the business unit making the most progress in the year was presented to Falcon Verification Foodservice Equipment in recognition of their environmental The Group has instituted a regular review of its CSR and health and safety performance improvements, progress policies, and since March 2002 has been advised by CSR towards ISO 14001 and their work with local communities.
Consulting Ltd, who assist the Company in evaluating its Customer and product initiatives current policies and procedures and reinforce the Groups commitment to CSR.
In addition to the internal CSR audit The Group continues to increase its emphasis on the programme, CSR related risks are included in the Groups development and marketing of products which help risk management process and at present the board does customers to enhance their CSR related performance as not believe that an overall external CSR audit would be well as satisfying their business requirements.
However, where significant issues are identified products address increasing concerns over the use of the Group utilises external specialists as necessary and energy and the emissions in commercial kitchens, as well as improving working conditions for staff.
The emphasis is also those businesses certified to ISO 14001 and other on the manufacturing of equipment to produce healthy standards are subject to regular external audits.
food for the quick service restaurant sector and other The corporate social responsibility is not subject to audit by markets such as in-store bakeries.
In consumer, the Group Ernst & Young LLP.
is paying close attention to the environmental debate and reviewing how we can upgrade our products to improve efficiency.
Supply chain ethical trading policy The board recognises the importance of managing its supply chain to ensure, so far as is practicable, that its direct and indirect suppliers adopt the same core principles as the Group.
The Group monitors quality, design and availability of all sourced components and products, to ensure high standards are maintained.
The Group introduced an ethical trading policy in 2002 which encompasses a set of global sourcing principles covering fair terms of employment, human rights, health and safety, equal opportunities and good environmental practice.
All operating companies are required to review supplier compliance with this policy, monitor any areas of nonconformance and take action where appropriate.
The Groups supplier development programme has been updated to include a more comprehensive monitoring questionnaire to help ensure suppliers conform to standards set by the Group.
Customers The Groups customer service strategy is to respond rapidly to evolving customer demand, to identify and anticipate emerging needs and to continuously improve product availability, quality and value.
Our quality management systems help ensure that our products meet or exceed customer requirements with thirteen of our manufacturing sites accredited to ISO 9001.
Community involvement Each operating company and its employees are encouraged to become involved with and to support local community
