28 Corporate and social responsibility review Drax and CSR FTSE4Good Index recognition Conducting our operations within a framework that reflects the legislative and regulatory requirements is only part In September, we were pleased to have our efforts of how we manage and run our business.
At Drax we are recognised through joining the FTSE4Good Index Series, acutely aware of societys expectations of a large and highly which is designed to measure the performance of visible power station and we endeavour to address those companies that meet globally recognised corporate expectations through voluntary policies.
The Board has responsibility standards and facilitate investment in ultimate control of policies in respect of both the wider those companies.
corporate and social responsibility and in relation to environmental and health and safety matters.
The Boards policies are implemented by dedicated specialists who make sure effective processes and procedures are in place to assure compliance and to identify and to report on risks and opportunities.
As a responsible business, we continue to invest, not only to comply with the increasingly stringent environmental and health and safety requirements, but, where practicable, to go further.
In September, we were pleased to have our efforts recognised through joining the FTSE4Good Index Series, which is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and facilitate investment in those companies.
For us, corporate and social responsibility is about achieving a balance between the commercial and regulatory rigours of the competitive sector within which we operate and our commitment to our wider stakeholder group.
These range from shareholders, through Government and the media to non-Governmental organisations, opinion formers and the local community, not forgetting our customers and suppliers.
Communication with all our stakeholders is considered to be an essential part of our business and we aim to be open The Energy Review and transparent in all that we do.
We fulfil our communication commitments through an investor relations programme A key focus for 2006 was the Governments Energy and a wide-ranging external relations programme.
Considerable effort was made to engage fully with the Government, utilising all Investor relations available channels, to ensure that our position was fully Drax is committed to delivering shareholder value.
We communicate our results and prospects to our shareholders in an accurate and timely manner using a variety of channels.
In addition to the Annual General Meeting, we communicate through our Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Report and Trading Updates.
All of these documents are available through the Investors Centre on our website at www.
Significant matters relating to the trading and development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of announcements via a regulatory information service and those announcements appear as soon as practicable on our website.
Face-to-face meetings are held with our major institutional shareholders to assist them in understanding the information announced to the market and to ensure that the Board is aware of investors views and concerns.
In 2006, a formal meeting programme was delivered in both the UK and US after each of the Preliminary and Interim Results announcements.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 29 The year has seen a ten-fold increase in the number of We have an important part to play in managing this shareholders on the register and a marked increase in transition and delivering a low carbon future.
The central the number of private investors.
We continue to develop theme in our submission to the Governments Energy Review the Investor Centre within the corporate website to address was about improving our environmental performance to the needs of the private investor.
reduce emissions of carbon dioxide CO2.
We now need to combine the security of supply benefits of coal-fired External relations generation with environmental improvements.
Through our external relations programme we engage with all of our key stakeholder groups from the Government, Co-firing renewable materials through the media to our local community.
We maintain Given the right energy and environmental policy framework, channels of communication with all groups which facilitate we could make significant reductions in our CO emissions.
2 a ready flow of information, whether on matters of policy, Co-firing renewable biomass materials with coal has emerged financial results or community initiatives.
as a credible renewable technology and is the quickest and most cost effective way for us to drive down emissions A key focus for 2006 was the Governments Energy Review of CO, but, the policy framework must facilitate this.
The Review represented the single biggest opportunity, since the Energy White Paper of 2003, Since 2003, we have undertaken a R&D programme aimed for those with an interest in the energy sector to influence at establishing the optimal method of co-firing biomass.
Considerable effort was made to engage We have concluded that direct injection, which utilises fully with the Government, utilising all available channels, processed biomass fuel and injects it directly into the boiler to ensure that our position was fully argued and understood.
thereby avoiding the operational complications of co-milling The Governments report on the Energy Review, published biomass with coal, is the best way to co-fire significant in July, contained much to be welcomed with its recognition volumes of biomass.
This system was implemented in of the valuable contribution and long-term role of coal-fired Summer 2005 on one of our units and we have recently generation in the energy mix of this country and its received Board approval to invest in the construction of acknowledgement of the contribution that co-firing further direct injection systems and associated processing renewable biomass materials with coal can make to carbon plant together capable of significantly increasing our abatement, given a sympathetic regulatory environment.
We also took the opportunity to engage with the Opposition Changes to the regulatory regime are critical to meeting on several fronts, including their energy review which was our co-firing objective.
Biomass is typically at least three conducted in parallel with the Governments own review.
times more expensive than coal, once all factors are considered, and we cannot embark upon a major investment No political donations were made in the UK or elsewhere scheme without confidence in the future of the Renewables during 2006 and the Companys contact with those active Obligation RO and the market it enables.
Equally, we are in the political arena has been and will continue to be aimed dependent on the development of a biomass supply chain, only at the promotion of the Companys business interests.
which in turn means that farmers and foresters must Suppliers consider energy crop planting to be a viable component As in previous years, we encouraged local and national of their business.
companies to bid for contracts to supply the many goods Over the last few years, we have initiated a sizeable energy and services required by the Group.
In making purchases, crop programme, entering into contracts on the basis of we are mindful that some companies or indeed countries the continuation of the RO mechanism.
We aim to facilitate may have poor ethical standards or human rights issues.
the development of a local, high volume biomass industry, Covering, as we do, a varied marketplace, with a number in particular through the production of quantities of of indirect manufacturers supporting the end product, energy crops.
Long-term contracts have been signed with it is impossible for us to be certain that we do not indirectly suppliers for short rotation coppice willow and miscanthus.
trade with certain companies or countries whose standards Contracts for other materials are close to agreement, are poor.
However, we do not knowingly support or trade with several other potential fuels including annual energy with such companies or countries.
crops the subject of active discussion.
Tackling climate change The current regulations governing co-firing are constraining We believe that it is imperative that we deliver measured this important development work and stifling opportunities responses, based on sound economics, to the challenges for considerable CO savings to be made.
In response to 2 presented by climate change.
We fully understand the threat changes in the regulatory regime implemented in April 2006, and support the move towards a low carbon economy.
we significantly reduced our co-firing activity.
Through our However, we are mindful that in order to make this transition, public affairs activities we worked hard to promote the the country must have a stable and secure energy supply if environmental benefits of co-firing and through the growth and prosperity are to be sustained.
Governments report on the Energy Review, published in July, we were rewarded with recognition of the contribution that co-firing can make and proposals to reform the renewables regime.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 30 Corporate and social responsibility review continued We continue to work closely with the Government to ensure Our environmental policy that the proposals are implemented.
The reform of the RO is key to delivering sustainable emissions reductions, Drax recognises its responsibilities to meeting renewables targets and mitigating the environmental society and the environment and is impact of a continued, but necessary, reliance on coal-fired generation.
We are optimistic that changes in the regulatory committed to being an innovative leader regime will be in place by April 2007 to allow us to embark, in the management of the environment once again, on a high biomass throughput to meet our target across all its activities and in all its for 2009 of 10% of our electricity generated coming from business decisions.
renewable fuels and with it a reduction in our emissions of CO2 by over two million tonnes each year.
We regard compliance with legislation Improving thermal efficiency as a minimum level of achievement.
A second way for us to address our emissions of CO is 2 Furthermore, we are committed to through improving the thermal efficiency of our plant.
Such improvements rely on recent advances in technology managing, monitoring and reducing, and tend to be capital intensive.
Current technology where practicable, the environmental options range from upgrading the turbines to retrofitting impacts caused by our business through supercritical boilers.
continual improvement of our operations, In December, we announced the decision to go ahead with in particular emissions to air, discharges a 100 million capital investment programme to upgrade to water, disposal of waste and the use our high pressure and low pressure turbines.
Installation, which will be undertaken during the planned outages for of natural resources.
each of our six units, is expected to take place between 2008 We will maintain a reputation for and 2011 although some work may be undertaken in 2007.
The result will be an improvement in our overall baseload effective environmental management, efficiency of 5%, taking it towards 40%, and an annual in part by certification to the international saving of one million tonnes of CO2.
environmental management system Looking ahead, providing the confidence to invest significant standard, ISO 14001: 2004.
This system sums requires a stable and certain policy framework.
We are will be used to set and periodically review contributing to the Governments discussions on how best to achieve this through existing policy mechanisms, such as environmental objectives and targets.
the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
We will discuss our activities with our Managing our environmental impacts stakeholders, engaging with them to help The size and characteristics of Drax Power Station mean that refine and broaden our understanding, it has a significant impact on the environment.
We recognise taking note of their views and investigating this and have put the management of the environment at the heart of our decision-making process.
Our full policy is given any concerns promptly.
here, in the panel on the right.
We will promote environmental awareness Environmental management system amongst our staff, business partners and We manage our environmental compliance under an contractors, ensuring that they understand Environmental Management System EMS certified to the international standard ISO 14001: 2004.
Its purpose is the environmental aspects of their activities, to ensure that we meet our legal and policy commitments that they act responsibly and are competent to protect and improve the environment in the course of to carry out their jobs.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the implementation of the EMS and for environmental compliance and performance of the business, with other staff allocated specific responsibilities as determined by the nature of the environmental impacts for which they are responsible.
The EMS contains documented procedures for each significant environmental issue and staff are trained to recognise the legal and operational requirements contained within them.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 31 Environmental compliance Emissions to air summary We operate within the conditions of our Integrated Pollution Control IPC authorisation, granted by the Environment Carbon dioxide Agency, and we aim to maintain compliance with no per unit of electricity generated kg kWh significant breaches of the regulatory limits.
We recognise 2006 2005 that emissions limits will become tighter in the future and our 0.84 0.83 goal is to be ahead of legal requirements whilst recognising the need to uphold our competitive market position.
We maintain an up-to-date understanding of the science underlying our impacts in order to contribute to the development of cost-effective control measures.
Over the last few years, UK industry has been moving towards Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC regulation, which expands the IPC and Waste Management Notes: legislation to cover, not just the discharges from site, but, site 1 EU ETS verified emissions taking account of the issues such as contamination, wastes, energy efficiency, risks, carbon free status of biomass.
In 2004, we applied for a Pollution Prevention and Control PPC permit to Sulphur dioxide replace the Waste Management licence for the Barlow Mound per unit of electricity generated g kWh ash disposal site.
In 2006, we applied for a PPC permit for 2001 the main power station site to replace the IPC authorisation.
2.05 It is anticipated that both of these licences will be determined 2002 2003 1.78 in 2007.
1.70 Emissions to air The principal emissions from burning coal are CO, sulphur 2 2004 dioxide SO, oxides of nitrogen NO, hydrogen chloride 2 X 2005 1.07 1.01 HCl, and particulates dust.
Our generating units have 2006 all been retrofitted with Flue Gas Desulphurisation FGD 0.76 equipment which removes, on average, at least 90% of SO 2 and HCl emissions before the flue gas is released via the chimney into the atmosphere.
We maintain investment in our emissions abatement Oxides of nitrogen equipment and consider this to be a high priority.
Our FGD per unit of electricity generated g kWh plant already complies with known future SO2 emissions limits 2001 to 2016 and we have initiated a programme of retrofitting 2002 2.63 2003 2.55 all units with low NOX technology Boosted Over Fire Air 2004 2.49 2005 2.36 systems in order to ensure compliance with the NOX 2.30 2006 2.12 requirements of the Large Combustion Plant Directive LCPD from 2008.
Currently three units out of our six have been retrofitted with work underway to complete the remaining three by mid-2008.
Discharges to water Procedures are in place to ensure that all discharges and drainage to water are monitored and treated where necessary to meet our discharge consent limits.
There are a number of sources of discharge and drainage as part of the electricity generation process, including the cooling water used to cool the condensers, which as part of the steam cycle condense steam to water after it leaves the turbines and before returning to the boilers.
Cooling water is abstracted mainly from the River Ouse and boiler feedwater originates from two boreholes on site.
Approximately half of the water is returned to the River Ouse at a few degrees warmer than the river water.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 32 Corporate and social responsibility review continued The FGD process produces effluent water which is treated A considerable amount of work was completed prior to the in a specially designed plant before it is discharged to first delivery of petcoke to the Power Station.
This preliminary the river, and there is also drainage from the main plant, period allowed an extended period of public consultation coal plant and roads.
during which we collected 12 months data on levels of dust, nickel, vanadium and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons Disposals to land PAHs in the immediate vicinity of the Power Station.
When coal is burnt, ash is left as a residue.
The finer particles We also established further air quality baseline tests and of ash, Pulverised Fuel Ash PFA, are collected from completed a capital investment programme aimed at the flue gas by electrostatic precipitators: the heavier ash, installing a dedicated coal petcoke fuel blending facility.
Furnace Bottom Ash FBA falls to the bottom of the boiler.
The majority of ash is sold to the construction industry The combustion trial commenced on 27 June 2005 and with the remainder sent for landfill at the Stations adjacent since then a considerable volume of data has been made Barlow Mound ash disposal site, which over time has been publicly available.
The monitoring programme was specifically developed into farmland, woodland and wetland features designed to address the issues raised during the public providing a haven to many species of wildlife and birdlife.
consultation exercise, namely dust blow, health and safety of the general public and staff, and operational and local We pay landfill tax on the PFA disposed of to the Barlow environmental issues.
Through the Landfill Tax Credit Scheme, we are able to claim a tax credit against our donations to recognised The assembly of data from the monitoring programme has Environmental Bodies.
We have worked with Groundwork been continuous throughout the trial the volume of data Selby since 2001 on projects designed to help mitigate the collected is considerably greater than the minimum required effects of landfill upon our local community.
During 2006, by the Environment Agency.
Where possible, we have we contributed approximately 23,000 towards local appointed independent specialists to handle all aspects of community-based projects designed to bring about sustainable the monitoring programme, from collection to interpretation.
environmental benefits and contribute to the social and In line with our policy on openness and transparency, economic regeneration of the area.
all data are available to the public and we have held regular Alternative fuels meetings with the Environment Agency, Selby District To help maintain our vital role in the UK economy and Council, East Riding of Yorkshire Council, North Yorkshire safeguard cost effective power production, our fuel strategy County Council, and the local Primary Care Trust.
recognises the need to sustain a ready supply of traditional The results of the trial to date indicate that the monitoring quality coal and how best to incorporate alternative fuels, programme has been carried out successfully.
No significant including different fossil fuels and renewable materials.
operational issues have been identified when burning The choice of fuels has to be balanced with availability a blend of coal and petcoke and when monitoring handling, and flexibility of supply.
The extensive monitoring The trial burn of petroleum coke petcoke is an integral of both the local environment and the Power Station site part of our strategy of developing alternative fuels.
It has has indicated that dust levels have remained similar to involved burning a blend of coal and up to 15% petcoke on those measured during coal-only operation.
Importantly, one of our six generating units.
there has been a significant reduction in particulate emissions from the trial unit during the test, resulting in Petcoke is derived from the petrochemical industry and is a reduction in overall emissions of nickel and vanadium.
produced from oil, it contains higher levels of sulphur than The FGD plant has been in service at all times during coal but the FGD plant at Drax ensures that, on average, which a blend of coal petcoke has been burned.
at least 90% of the SO2 is removed before the gases created during combustion are emitted to the atmosphere.
Because Overall, the data to date have shown that the total of this we have the capability to burn petcoke within the environmental impact for a coal petcoke blend is similar permitted sulphur levels set for the Power Station by the to that for the plant burning coal only and, therefore, Environment Agency.
there has been no associated adverse impact on the local environment as a result of the trial.
The collection and interpretation of the data from the trial has been a valuable first step in assembling the case to support our application for full commercial burning of coal petcoke blends on up to all six units.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 33 Committed to health and safety Personal safety statistics Health and safety is at the heart of our corporate responsibility.
Protecting our employees, contractors and Fatality Lost Restricted all visitors from injury and promoting employee well-being time accident work accident is fundamental to our business philosophy.
We are committed 2004 2004 to developing and maintaining a positive health and safety 8 6 culture in which statutory requirements are viewed as a 2005 7 minimum standard and leading performance our goal.
Attaining leading performance 2005 4 The total recordable injury rate dropped from 0.60 in 2005 to 0.17 in 2006, a 72% reduction, taking us to leading health and safety performance levels.
This has been delivered through visible leadership, simple systems and clear 2006 expectations.
These three core objectives will continue 2 2006 2004 2005 2006 1 to fuel our drive for sustained leading performance.
0 0 0 1 We were delighted to win the Gold Award for the second year Medical treatment First aid RIDDOR running in The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents accident reportable 2006 Awards.
The Award recognises and celebrates the 2004 2004 2004 2005 achievement of a high standard and improvement of health 5 182 6 6 and safety at work over four years.
2005 Processes underpinning performance 140 2006 127 The incident investigation and review process launched two years ago continues to provide a firm platform for the identification of health and safety learning opportunities.
Spotlight on Safety is our implementation of the internationally 2006 2 proven DuPont STOP programme, a behavioural safety 2005 2006 programme which provides the cornerstone of our health 1 1 and safety culture.
Together these processes have been Notes: vital to the strong improvements we have delivered in 1 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurences Regulations.
Communicating the safety message Our weekly safety bulletin briefing process provides a fast track for safety communication to all staff, through which we can draw attention to specific safety issues and our performance record, and recognise achievements.
In addition, the safety representatives and management team members 1 of the Health and Safety Advisory Committee continue to Accident frequency rates play a vital role in facilitating staff consultation on health and safety issues.
Lost time injury Total recordable rate LTIR injury rate TRIR The second year of the twinning arrangement between ourselves and ScottishPowers Longannet Power Station 2004 2004 0.42 0.99 produced real safety benefits for both parties through 2005 information sharing and learning opportunities.
We have 0.35 also further developed our relationship with E. ON and Corus, again through sharing our health and safety practices.
2005 0.60 2006 2006 0.08 0.17 Notes: 1 Frequency rates are calculated on the following basis: number of accidents x 100,000 hours worked.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 34 Corporate and social responsibility review continued Caring for the community Health and safety We are committed to being a good neighbour to our local community and our caring for the community philosophy Record improvements in our health and safety performance involves being part of local and regional communities.
have been delivered through visible leadership, simple systems and clear expectations.
These three core objectives will Throughout 2006, we maintained close relations with the continue to fuel our drive for sustained leading performance.
local community through formal and informal discussions with representatives of parish, district and county councils.
As a major employer, we sought to take an active role in business community organisations, such as the Selby Industrial Association and the Selby Communities and District Industrial Mission.
We furthered our community involvement through sponsorship activities, education initiatives and site visits.
Sponsorship in the community During 2006, we made donations of 66,896 in total across a range of charitable and non-charitable causes.
Of that total, charitable donations amounted to 45,872 2005: 37,500.
Some 12,000 of the total donations were made under the direction of our sponsorship team, across a range of activities within a 20 mile radius of the Power Station.
Each month the team meets to consider requests received for charitable donations and community sponsorship and makes awards against our criteria of furthering community, environmental and sporting interests.
An example of the good causes supported through the sponsorship team in 2006, is the Save the Hinge and Support Young People appeal, organised by the Hinge Centre at Goole.
The Centre works with marginalised and excluded young people up to the age of 25 offering information, guidance and support.
Support is offered both within the Centre and on an outreach basis, Community developing projects for living skills and inclusion in other organisations and the surrounding community.
Our Cricket in the Community initiative launched in May Outside of the sponsorship teams donations, and for the provides cricket coaching to local schools as part of our second year running, we ran a scheme to encourage and support for education and to promote sports learning as reward good safety performance during the planned outage part of the National Curriculum.
A total of 6,000 was raised during the 12 week outage, the maximum possible under the scheme, which earmarks 500 for charitable causes for every seven days that goes by without an injury requiring more than first aid treatment.
Employees and the outage contractor, Doosan Babcock, were each asked to nominate a charity and the Appeal for Poppy and Cancer Research UK each received a donation of 3,000.
The Appeal for Poppy is a local charity which aims to raise 15,000 to send Poppy Parritt from Brigg, North Lincolnshire to Poland to receive revolutionary treatment to help with a medical condition which affects her legs, making it very difficult to walk unaided.
The Group also operates a for matching scheme, under which we match, for, any monies raised for charity by employees at the Power Station.
During 2006, approximately 32,000 of the total donations made were through this scheme.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 35 Education in the community We are mindful of our responsibilities in all areas of Our Cricket in the Community initiative launched in May employment legislation and, just as important, the application has gone from strength to strength.
With the backing of the of good practice, which during 2006 captured the changes Yorkshire Cricket Board YCB and endorsed by England to age discrimination and pensions laws.
ladies cricketer, Katherine Brunt, three England Cricket Board Recruitment ECB qualified coaches, all employees of Drax, took cricket Our apprenticeship programme was re-introduced in coaching to primary schools in the local area as part of our September 2003 amidst a growing realisation of a potential support for education and to promote sports learning as part future shortfall in skilled workers, particularly in the more of the National Curriculum.
Through 11 school visits, a drop in traditional craft disciplines.
With the long-term future of session at the Great Yorkshire Show and two Summer Camps, the business in mind, we decided to take steps to secure we reached 611 children.
the right level of resource and the programme now forms Fully in keeping with the education theme, in 2006, a major component of our policy of investing in our staff for the first time, we sponsored education-related awards.
The Community Pride Awards is a campaign by local In 2006, six new apprentices joined us, giving a total newspaper, The Press and York City Council to recognise of 26 in our programme.
The year also saw those from the contribution to the community made every day by the 2003 intake enter into their final year, well on the way people from all walks of life.
We were pleased to sponsor to completing their Advanced Modern Apprenticeship in the Teacher of the Year Award, which went to Dave Counter Power Station Operations and Engineering Maintenance.
During the year we continued to address the specialist We also recognised the success and outstanding skills gap, which had built up during previous ownership, achievements of apprentices through the annual Empower together with equipping the business with sufficient Apprentice Awards.
We sponsored the Team Award and were corporate skills to support a public listed company.
delighted to see our second year apprentices forming part In addition, in line with our commitment to developing of the winning team.
the business, we have commenced a recruitment drive Visitors to Drax for specialists in certain areas.
Thousands of visitors are welcomed to the Power Station Internal communications every year.
The appeal of discovering more about how power We use a wide variety of communication methods in order is produced and the sheer scale of the site and its associated to keep people as informed as possible and avoid confusion, activities attracts schools and colleges as well as business conflict and misinterpretation of messages.
For example, organisations and associations.
During 2006, we played host team briefings are held once a month where wide-ranging to nearly 5,000 visitors, around half of which were primary information is communicated throughout the organisation.
In addition, plant-wide meetings and specific departmental meetings are held on a regular basis.
We also fully utilise Our people the e-mail system to which all employees are subscribed.
Culture There is a written Whistleblowing policy under which We have established a performance culture where staff feel employees are encouraged to draw the Companys attention valued and want to come to work and perform for the good to breaches of law, breaches of policies or procedures or of the business.
An integral part of achieving this culture is other forms of malpractice and are assured of confidentiality.
the annual appraisal and development discussion between each member of staff and his her line manager.
We are Union representation working towards an industrial relations climate that is The Group has approximately 630 employees.
The terms positive, with employment policies which respect human and conditions of employment for the majority of staff, rights and equal opportunities as well as facilitating that is, those not employed under a personal contract, training to develop staff and enhance competence.
We are are incorporated into the Collective Agreement.
This is a committed to the principles of fairness and dignity at work.
joint agreement between the Group and the trades unions.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are Staff are represented by either AMICUS, TGWU, GMB, always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes Prospect or Unison trades unions.
There is a positive of the applicants concerned.
In the event of a member relationship between management and the trades unions of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure which has been established over a number of years and that their employment continues and that appropriate is based on clear guidelines, a consultative approach and training is arranged.
It is our policy that the training, good communication of the relevant business objectives career development and promotion of disabled persons should, of the Group.
as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Group is committed to a policy of equal opportunities and ensures that country of origin, colour, gender, religious belief, sexual orientation, age or disability are not barriers to working at Drax.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
