DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 29 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Review to the Board quarterly and the importance of safety is reflected in it being the first fixed agenda item at all main Board, executive committee and divisional review meetings.
As we reported in the 2004 05 review, regrettably, one UK employee died in August 2004 as a result of injuries sustained while operating machinery at one of our corrugated Our primary CSR focus is packaging plants.
Immediate action was taken to prevent a recurrence of this accident.
In on ensuring safe working February 2006, the Group was fined 75,000 for a breach of the Health and Safety at and minimising the Groups Work Act in connection with this accident.
In 2005 06, the high level of management attention devoted to safety was reflected in a 26% reduction in the number of lost time DS Smith is committed to providing good breaches of company policies or potential accidents.
There was a 6% reduction in the sustainable returns for its investors while unethical business practices or conduct.
This accident frequency rate, which measures all maintaining high standards of ethical and policy was reinforced during 2005 06 with accidents in proportion to the working hours social behaviour in all its business dealings.
the introduction of a confidential Employee lost, and a 12% reduction in the accident Concern Helpline which is currently available The short-term and long-term risks to severity rate, which measures the hours lost to employees in the UK, Ireland and the the Group arising from corporate social as a result of all accidents as a percentage USA and in due course will be extended to responsibility CSR matters are considered of the total hours worked.
Any concerns reported are by the Board as part of its regular review of the appropriately investigated.
Lost Time Accidents key risks to the Groups operations.
The Board Number of accidents resulting ensures that effective policies and systems for DS Smith has been selected as a constituent in lost time of one shift or more managing the Groups CSR risks are in place of the FTSE4Good UK Index of companies and receives regular reports on performance.
deemed to meet globally recognised corporate 438 429 The Group Chief Executive is the Director responsibility standards.
DS Smith is also 324 responsible for CSR matters and he reports a constituent of the Kempen SNS Smaller to the Board on these.
It is the responsibility Europe SRI Index for smaller companies of the Divisional Chief Executives and General deemed to have high social responsibility Managers of the individual businesses to standards and practice.
2004 2005 2006 communicate and to apply the policies, to The Groups primary CSR focus is on ensure compliance and to review procedures, ensuring that all activities are conducted safely Accident Frequency Rate taking account of local legislation and potential Number of accidents of all types by qualified and well-trained employees and per 100,000 hours worked risks.
Divisional Chief Executives are required on minimising the impact on the environment annually to attest that the companies for which of the Groups businesses.
In addition to Health they are responsible have complied with and Safety and the Environment, the Group also 12.42 relevant Group and divisional human resources, 10.25 places considerable importance on its dealings 9.60 health and safety and environmental policies.
with its employees and local communities.
This CSR review presents information on The Groups Key Corporate Values statement may be viewed on the Groups website.
these priority aspects of CSR for the Group.
2004 2005 2006 It requires all employees at all times to act ethically and with integrity: to treat their Health and Safety Accident Severity Rate A safe workplace and safe working practices colleagues fairly, equitably and with respect: Working hours lost as a result of accidents to work safely: and to protect the environment.
are not only a legal and ethical requirement as a percentage of hours worked for the Group but are also essential elements These values are underpinned by more detailed policies on health and safety, the in the Groups drive to raise operational 0.33% performance: they are key factors in attracting environment and other relevant topics.
The 0.25% 0.22% Group has a workplace malpractice policy, and retaining a high quality and wellunder which employees may report in motivated workforce and in carrying out our confidence any concerns they have over operations productively and cost-effectively.
dangers to health, safety or the environment, Information on safety performance is reported 2004 2005 2006 30 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued The Groups businesses share experience The Group had a number of minor their allocation under the scheme and they consequently sold excess carbon credits and information on safety matters.
They environmental incidents during the year, also work closely with external health and following which prompt corrective action during 2005 06. safety agencies who are able to help identify and steps to prevent any recurrence were taken Throughout the Group, our businesses areas for increased attention and to provide and, where necessary, the appropriate agencies undertook a variety of initiatives to reduce appropriate training.
Our businesses health were informed.
The circumstances surrounding their environmental impact and the benefits and safety training programmes focused all environmental incidents are investigated of these are reflected in environmental strongly on accident investigation and immediately and the findings and lessons performance indicators shown in the table risk assessment in 2005 06.
Surveys about learnt are communicated throughout the Group on the opposite page.
employees attitudes to safety were carried as part of our drive to reduce such incidents.
These were followed Environmental Performance Environmental Management up with workshops aimed at identifying The Group consumed 6% less energy in % of Group sites with an appropriate opportunities for improving the safety of the environmental management system EMS 2005 06 and consumption per 000 of working environment and changing peoples revenue was 8% lower.
This was attributable behaviour in relation to safety.
94 to a number of factors: some plant closures: 87 84 77 Although the Group made good progress reductions in plant operating days due to in 2005 06, we have launched a Group-wide weak demand and high energy costs: increased 52 47 campaign, under the slogan Think Safe Be operating of the Kemsley combined heat Safe, with the objective of raising employees and power CHP plant: energy reduction 2004 2005 2006 awareness of their individual responsibilities projects and investment.
The installation for preventing accidents.
In common with of new boilers at St Just and Chouanard Higher potential environmental impact sites with ISO 14001 accreditation our general approach to safety, the Groups in France and Corum in Turkey improved Lower potential environmental impact sites businesses are implementing improvement the energy efficiency of these plants.
Across with a simplied EMS programmes, linked to the core theme, which the Group, businesses continue to undertake are tailored to the particular causes of accidents The Groups paper manufacturing energy conservation projects, in some cases and circumstances in their operations.
operations account for over 80% of the with the assistance of external agencies such Groups environmental impact, particularly as The Carbon Trust.
Environment because their manufacturing process uses The reductions in the Groups emissions to During 2005 06, DS Smith continued to large quantities of energy and water.
The UK air in 2005 06 reflect the lower energy usage develop its substantial recycling activities paper mills are regulated through Pollution and the investment in new, more efficient and made further progress in strengthening Prevention and Control PPC permits under gas boilers at some plants.
In addition to the the environmental management of its which they each have specific improvement Groups emissions of carbon dioxide, which operations.
The environmental performance programmes and targets: St Regis overall were 6% lower than in 2004 05, the other and activities of the divisions are reviewed compliance with its PPC emission limits gases emitted to air in material quantities at the Group Environment Committee, which was 99.7% in 2005 06.
St Regis is a key are sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxides.
meets three times a year and is chaired by participant in the UK paper sector Climate the Group Chief Executive.
Change Levy CCL Agreement with the Water usage was 13% lower in 2005 06, Department of Environment Food and principally as a result of the Groups Further progress was made in 2005 06 Rural Affairs under which the industry has investment in water recycling processes.
towards our goal that all Group sites will have undertaken to achieve energy consumption At Wansbrough mill, a new system which an appropriate environmental management reduction targets.
St Regis met its target for recycles cooling water contributed to a system EMS in place.
92% of the Groups the year to September 2005 and is on course 47% reduction in its water usage per tonne sites now have an EMS and within this 87% comfortably to meet its next target for the of paper produced.
of the 30 Group sites identified as having year to September 2006. higher potential environmental impact, due The Group recycled approximately 82% The Groups UK and French paper operations to their size or type of operations, are now of the waste produced by its businesses in accredited under the internationally recognised are now subject to the terms of their respective 2005 06: this proportion was slightly ahead ISO 14001 EMS.
94% of the Groups other national schemes for implementing the EU of the figure for 2004 05.
A substantial 68 sites have a simplified EMS in place, Emissions Trading Directive.
Under the terms proportion of this recycling is accounted for appropriate to their lower level of potential of the UK scheme, our UK mills have opted by the reprocessing of waste created during out of the first phase of the Emissions Trading environmental impact.
As part of their EMS, the production of corrugated packaging and many Group businesses have procedures scheme and remain within the UK paper plastic packaging.
The paper mills also recycle sector CCL Agreement.
Carbon emissions in place for assessing their suppliers much of the reject material, such as plastic environmental policies and management by our French mills, which are subject to their and polystyrene, which enters their process systems, as appropriate.
national scheme, have to date been lower than mixed in with the waste paper and is separated DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 31 out during paper manufacture.
Kemsley mill Environmental Performance Indicators recycles a substantial proportion of its process 2005 06 2004 05 2003 04 waste through its own waste-to-energy plant.
1 Energy consumption GWhs 4,138 4,398 4,140 Packaging and the Environment Packaging is often perceived as an unnecessary MWhs 000 revenue 2.50 2.71 2.78 2 use of resources.
However, most packaging, Emissions to air and especially corrugated packaging, performs Carbon dioxide CO 2 the valuable functions of limiting damage to 000 tonnes 926 981 918 products, enabling more efficient handling Tonnes 000 revenue 0.56 0.60 0.62 and transportation, reducing product wastage and lowering the environmental impact of Sulphur dioxide SO 2 the supply of goods.
The Groups packaging 000 tonnes 1.97 2.00 1.89 operations contribute towards minimising Kgs 000 revenue 1.19 1.23 1.27 the use of resources by working with their Nitrous oxides NO customers to develop packaging of the x optimum specification for the required end- 000 tonnes 2.46 2.61 2.45 use.
Increased use of packaging that performs Kgs 000 revenue 1.49 1.60 1.64 the dual functions of being both the protective Water transit packaging and the display packaging in Water usage store reduces the total quantity of packaging used for some products.
Million cubic metres 14.9 17.2 17.1 000 cubic metres 000 revenue 9.0 10.6 11.5 The Groups operations make a major 3 contribution to the corrugated packaging Water emissions paper mills only recycling process.
Corrugated board is Million cubic metres of process water discharged 10.5 10.7 11.2 produced predominantly from recycled paper 000 cubic metres tonne of paper produced 8.4 8.6 9.2 and is a cost-effective and fully recyclable Waste management packaging material.
Severnside Recycling is the UKs largest collector of waste paper Waste sent to landll and also collects other materials for recycling.
000 tonnes 72 75 80 In 2005 06 it collected 0.7 million tonnes of Kgs 000 revenue 43 46 54 corrugated packaging as part of the 1.1 million 4 Waste recycled tonnes of paper and plastic that it collected in total.
Severnside collects the waste from major 000 tonnes 324 324 282 supermarkets, other retailers and industrial Kgs 000 revenue 196 200 189 concerns.
It is providing the waste collection % of total waste recycled 82% 81% 78% services for Tesco plcs project to collect consumer packaging waste at a number of its Coverage: data for John Dickinson, which was sold in July 2005, are included for the years 2003 04 and 2004 05 but not for stores.
St Regis is the UKs leading recycler 2005 06: data for the former Linpac Containers operations, which were acquired in March 2004, are not included for 2003 04 but are included for subsequent years.
of packaging waste and largest producer of 1 Data relate to site usage of all fuels, excluding transport.
recycled paper, while DS Smith Kaysersberg 2 Emissions to air have been calculated from our sites usage of all fuels, excluding transport fuel, and therefore include both direct emissions is a significant recycler of recovered paper in and indirect emissions related to bought-in electricity.
France: in total the Group recycled 1.1 million 3 The water emissions data relate only to the Groups paper mills, which use over 95% of the Groups water.
The quantities measured, in accordance with the requirements of the IPPC regulations, are for process water only and do not include cooling water.
4 Data relate to waste generated by our operations and includes recycling through waste-to-energy and agricultural use through landspread.
The Groups paper collection and recycling operations also play an important role in meeting the EU and UK government objectives for recycling of packaging waste as prescribed in the EU Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive and the UK Packaging Waste Regulations.
Under the Directive, the UK is required to recycle at least 60% of all paper packaging by 2008: it is already well ahead of this target, with 74% of paper packaging being 32 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued recycled in 2005, and DS Smith is the largest complement the Groups existing European local schools with project work, training, mentoring or provision of work experience UK contributor to this reprocessing.
Exports Works Council and the businesses established of paper packaging for reprocessing increased briefing and consultation structures.
In opportunities: and provision of adult training from 0.6 million tonnes in 2004 to 1.1 million addition, our divisions and businesses skills or facilities.
At sites where our tonnes in 2005.
Whereas corrugated packaging communicate with their people through operations may inconvenience neighbours is generally used once and can then be newsletters, intranets and briefing meetings.
through traffic movements, odour or noise, liaison groups meet to consult with local recycled in what is essentially a loop system, Some businesses conducted employee the Groups plastic returnable transit feedback surveys during the year and are residents and review ways to minimise any packaging is designed to be re-used, often now implementing the results of these.
Some sites hold open days to foster many times, where customers require multirelationships with their local communities.
Training and development are carried out trip packaging.
Several of our businesses by the divisions and businesses to meet The Group supports charitable fund-raising reprocess worn or damaged plastic packaging, activities through cash contributions and in their specific needs for raising operational such as bottle crates or layer pads, to produce performance and career development.
The the form of product and services or staff time.
new crates or plastic sheet.
Wherever it is divisions and businesses operate a variety The majority of the modest amount of money appropriate for the end-use, our product donated by the Group is given by individual of schemes which include training in development teams look to use a higher manufacturing and distribution business skills, operating units, principally to causes in their proportion of recycled plastic material local communities.
Donations by the Group IT and health and safety: they also provide in our products.
management development programmes and headquarters are focused on a small number of educational, training and support causes support for study for external vocational Material Collected by Severnside Recycling that help young people become involved and professional qualifications.
An extensive 000 Tonnes in business and working life.
training programme was implemented for the employees of the new Polish corrugated 94 84 packaging plant at Kutno, 95% of whom were Content of the Business Review This Business Review has been prepared newly recruited.
Their programme included periods spent at DS Smiths plants at Kielce to meet the requirements for companies to provide an enhanced Business Review in Poland and Lari in Italy to learn best practice: throughout they were supported in accordance with the EU Accounts 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Modernisation Directive and the March 2005 by operators from DS Smiths French plants Corrugated packaging and the technicians from the Kutno plants amendments to the UKs 1985 Companies Act.
Total paper and plastic machinery suppliers.
This thorough training programme was a major contributor to Employees the new plant operating well as soon as The Group recognises the value that its it was commissioned.
employees generate and aims to create a working environment in which people can The Group is committed to applying feel that they are well-managed, treated equal opportunities in all recruitment and with respect and able to fulfil their potential.
It is also committed, It ensures that the divisions have in place as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights appropriate structures, procedures and and legislation requirements in each of the resources to implement the employee-related countries in which it operates: in practice aspects of the Groups Key Corporate Values.
the Group often exceeds the local and international requirements.
As DS Smiths The recruitment and retention of high-quality operations are almost entirely located in and well-motivated people is key to the member counties of the OECD, human rights Groups future success.
The annual turnover matters are not perceived as a significant rate in the Groups workforce worldwide Group risk.
of approximately 11% compares favourably with the UK national average of 16%.
Our Community Involvement manufacturing operations tend to have lower The Group places considerable emphasis turnover rates than our wholesaling operations.
on developing and maintaining good relations The Group strengthened its processes for and a positive reputation in the communities employee communication and consultation in which it operates.
Our individual businesses by establishing divisional Employee Forums support their local communities through a for UK employees, which met for the first range of activities such as sponsorship of time during the summer of 2005 and now community projects or sports teams: helping 458 736 511 773 569 881 682 1,077 688 1,130
