GEMS incorporates a comprehensive reporting system Set out below is an explanation of the technical terms which is designed to ensure that the Company knows used in this section.
of every incident, and can learn from it.
A uniform accident and incident data collection procedure is implemented worldwide, and from these we can Technical Terms measure our performance and benchmark our NOx Oxides of Nitrogen.
Performance measures are reported at a business unit level on a monthly basis.
Any serious Particulate In general this term relates to incident is immediately reported to the Executive visible smoke.
Director responsible for the business unit concerned.
Tier 1, tier 2, tier 3 US Federal Government target emission reduction levels.
Meetings of the senior management of each region are g bhp-hr Emissions in grams per held regularly: at each of these an Executive Director brake-horsepower hour.
will normally chair the meeting, and incidents reported under GEMS are discussed.
basis, the Executive Director responsible for Health LWA Sound power level at source.
and Safety, George Walker, reports to the Board.
We measure our safety performance using a metric kVA A thousand volt amperes.
called Frequency Accident Rating FAR, which is a measurement of lost-time accidents in relation to the number of hours worked.
The usefulness of this measure The Environment is that we can benchmark our performance against Environmental Policy other businesses.
It is calculated as the number of lostAggrekos equipment is designed to function in all time accidents multiplied by 200,000 hours being the continents and all types of terrain.
By careful design base for 100 full time employees working 40 hours per and use of the most suitable technology, we also week, 50 weeks per year, divided by the number of aim to minimise the environmental impact of that man-hours worked.
The benchmark is the 2005 level equipment.
Aggreko makes available to its customers reported for the US rental and leasing industries by equipment and solutions that are designed to comply the US Department of Labor of 1.5.
Aggrekos FAR with applicable laws, regulations and industry performance is much better than the benchmark and standards wherever we operate in the world.
In effect, has also seen considerable improvement over the this means they comply with the laws, regulations and last three years with 0.75 in 2006, 0.98 in 2005 and standards of some of the most stringent jurisdictions 1.09 in 2004.
A FAR score of less than 0.6 has been in which we operate and, therefore, far exceed the set by the Group as a target for 2007.
This measure levels required in many others.
is also included under Key Performance Indicators in the Business Review on page 28.
The two major environmental issues we deal with in our business are emissions-to-air from our equipment the vast majority of which is diesel powered, and the safe handling and disposal of fuel and oil.
Aggreko plc Annual Repor Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 t and Accounts 2006 49 49 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our Environmental Policies are managed in a similar Diesel Generator Emission Development way to safety.
They comprise: 16 1995 Unregulated ensuring that environmental issues are at the fore- 14 front of considerations when we design our eet: 12 ensuring that our equipment is built and maintained to the highest standards: 10 training and educating our staff worldwide in the 8 safe operation of our equipment: and Tier 1 6 ensuring that environmental issues have the Tier 2 4 appropriate level of focus throughout the Tier 3 management chain.
2 Emissions-to-air: exhaust gases and particulates 0 2014 Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, as Particulate [g bhp-hr ] engines have become more efficient and legislation to limit emissions around the world has become stricter, emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko Our strong presence in markets which are particularly works in co-operation with the manufacturers of sensitive to emissions, such as California, means that diesel engines in order to meet new emission the control of emissions is at the fore-front of our requirements at the earliest opportunity.
design considerations and decisions on engine choice.
The principle contribution we can make to reducing Aggreko natural gas generator development.
emissions to air is in maintaining our equipment in We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing good order, and introducing engines into the eet emissions, and have completed the development of with good emissions performance.
a new gas-fuelled temporary power solution, which has signicantly lower levels of emissions see below.
The chart below shows a summarised account of the Tier 1 Engine Gas engine Reduction % requirement to meet emission guidelines for Oxides of Nitrogen NOx and Particulate as set out by the NOX 6.9 g bhp-hr 1.0 g bhp-hr 87% US Federal Government.
Most of Aggrekos eet is Particulates 0.4 g bhp-hr 0.1 g bhp-hr 75% powered by Tier 1 engines: during 2006 we added more than 30% to the total of Tier 2 engines in Natural gas presents a competitive advantage over the eet giving a cumulative total of 1,060 and will other energy sources.
It is seen as economically more be adopting Tier 3 compliant engines as the engines efficient because only about 10% of the natural gas are made available by suppliers.
produced is wasted before it gets to final consumption.
In addition, technological advances are constantly improving efficiencies in extraction, transportation and storage techniques as well as in equipment that uses natural gas.
50 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 NOx[g bhp-hr ] Natural gas is considered as an  spills and the safe disposal of waste uids friendly clean fuel, offering important environmental Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable benets when compared to other fossil fuels.
The quantity of diesel fuel and the occurrence of fuel superior environmental qualities over coal or oil are spills is an area that the Group monitors very closely.
that emissions of sulphur dioxide are negligible and The measure used by management to measure the that the level of nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide performance of the Group in handling fuel is the emissions is signicantly lower.
Where the gas fuel Petroleum Release Rating PRR.
This is calculated is essentially a stranded resource or is derived from as litres released to ground, divided by the cumulative a biological source, a CO2 and greenhouse gas average MW on rent.
The PRR performance over reduction is realised.
This helps to reduce problems the past three years has been: 2006 a rating of 0.60, of acid rain, ozone layer or greenhouse gases.
Our equipment has been specically designed to In many of Aggrekos target markets natural gas is minimise the risk of uid spillage through features effectively a stranded resource which dictates that such as a save-all base, double-walled storage the gas is ared to the atmosphere as opposed to tanks and fail-safe valves.
A PRR score of less than being used for beneficial services.
This practice is 0.50 has been set by the Group as a target for 2007. being increasingly regulated and Aggrekos service allows for generation of power from this valuable Another potential source of environmental damage resource on a more exible and scaleable basis than is in the disposal of consumables such as engine oil existing solutions.
In our Local business, these are normally returned to our service centres where they are safely Emissions-to-air: carbon dioxide CO2 disposed of.
In our International Power Projects All of Aggrekos core activities release CO2 into the business, site-specic arrangements are made to atmosphere to a greater or lesser extent.
The most ensure the safe handling of these items.
significant impact arises from power generation in Aggreko International due to the intensiveness of Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar way our activities in providing temporary power stations.
to safety incidents, with monthly reporting at regional Any generation of electricity using hydrocarbon level, and quarterly reporting to the Board.
fuels inevitably causes the release of CO2 and the performance of Aggrekos equipment is comparable to other equivalent power sources.
Aggreko is actively researching the availability of alternative mobile power sources that will reduce the level of CO2 emissions: until an economically viable alternative becomes available, the level of emissions will mirror the level of our business activity.
The actual amount of CO2 released by our engines is driven by the usage our customers make of our equipment on rent: an engine running 24 hours day will emit much more CO2 than an engine used for a few hours a day.
These patterns of usage can vary widely from country to country and from year to year.
We estimate that customers using Aggreko engines produced an average CO2 emission rate of 0.65 tonnes of CO2 per megawatt hour.
This compares with a modern coal-red power station which will produce in the region of 0.85 tonnes of CO2 per megawatt hour.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 51
