Corporate Social Responsibility continued Noise Social Responsibility Aggreko has built a competitive advantage through Policy an equipment eet that minimises external noise.
This Aggreko has a policy of encouraging local teams to is done by the use of custom-built acoustic enclosures engage with the communities in which they work as well as high performance isolation and attenuation with a view to assisting disadvantaged people, and systems.
Aggreko continues to work closely with its those who have been aficted by natural disasters.
suppliers and local university research departments in There are innumerable initiatives every year to help order to develop its expertise in this eld.
As a result, people around the world: on a larger scale, the Group our equipment is able to achieve the following and its employees made significant contributions to performance standards that are well below the various relief organisations following the Tsunami in maximum levels permitted by current European South Asia in 2004 and in the wake of Hurricanes legislation.
Size of Generator Certied Noise Level Sound Power LWA Given the Groups presence in Africa and Sri Lanka, Aggreko Aggreko we signed a funding agreement with Book Aid Maximum Standard Premium EU Limit Product Product International in 2006, with an initial donation of 40,000.
This charity promotes literacy in developing 30kVA 98.3 93.3 78.0 countries and provides large quantities of books and 60kVA 98.6 89.9 80.0 other educational material to schools and libraries.
125kVA 99.0 90.0 83.0 200kVA 99.1 95.0 91.0 Business Ethics 320kVA 99.4 94.0 90.0 Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certied noise level equates to an audible Ethics Policy noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our Refrigerant long-term success is something less tangible and less In accordance with the timelines and accords set out easily illustrated with gures or case studies.
This key by the Montreal protocol Aggreko has phased out element is integrity and honesty in our business CFC plant from its temperature control rental eet dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term and is in the process of phasing out HCFC plant: relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees, we have introduced HFC replacement prototypes as well as consultants and agents who we work with, and production models in all areas.
are expected to behave ethically in their work, and our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate Ethics Policy.
The objective of the Policy is to make Aggreko a good company to work for: to maintain our reputation for exceptional customer service and ethical business dealings, to compete ethically, and to ensure the business is managed to a consistently high standard.
Further discussion of our policies for handling ethical risks is set out under Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 25.
Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their condentiality and position is protected if they do so.
See our Corporate Responsibility Website Further information and copies of the Environmental, Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics Policy are available at www.
asp 52 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 COMMITTEE REPORTS Committee Reports Audit Committee Report 54 Nomination Committee Report 56 Remuneration Report 57
