Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Health & Safety This report describes the policies and procedures that Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart of its the Board has put in place to ensure that Aggreko operations.
Most of our equipment is heavy, electrooperates in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, mechanical equipment which is moved around which protects the environment as well as safeguarding frequently.
Compressors and generators respectively the health and safety of its employees, its customers, produce high-pressure compressed air and high and the communities in which it operates.
The voltages, either of which can be harmful to people if process for identifying, evaluating and managing the mishandled.
risks that are considered significant is summarised Aggrekos policy is to implement common health and under the heading of Internal Control on page 45. safety operating procedures worldwide.
Whether operating in the Australian bush, the Saudi Arabian The nature of our business is that we work in many desert or in downtown Manhattan, our operating different countries, often in remote and difficult procedures are the same high standard.
environments, with equipment and substances, which Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide if improperly handled, are potentially dangerous to Health and Safety Policy are: people and harmful to property and the environment.
We frequently operate in response to natural or ensuring that health and safety issues are at the man-made disasters, where the infrastructure has been fore-front of considerations when we design our badly damaged and where operating conditions are far equipment: from ideal.
Over time, therefore, we have developed a comprehensive range of operating procedures and ensuring that our equipment is built and processes to ensure that we minimise any risk of harm maintained to the highest standards: to people or to the environment.
training and educating our staff worldwide in the Equal Opportunities safe operation of our equipment: and Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all, irrespective of disability, ethnic ensuring that health and safety issues have the origin, gender or any other considerations that do not appropriate level of focus throughout the affect a persons ability to perform their job.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career Aggreko has created its own Global Environmental development and promotion of employees are based Health and Safety Management System GEMS on the suitability of the individual.
which has been implemented throughout the business.
At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice document that is published in 8 languages English, French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Norwegian and Singhalese and made available to every Aggreko employee worldwide.
The Best Operating Practice is updated in the light of experience and incidents.
48 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
