Corporate responsibility statement SCi has a strong commitment to its customers, Environmental policy shareholders, employees and, in a wider context, society at SCi seeks to ensure that its operations and products cause large.
The Group seeks to enhance its relationships with the minimum detrimental impact to the environment.
The stakeholders and manage risks in key areas such as health Groups objective is to comply with environmental legislation and safety.
SCi is included in the FTSE4Good, an index of in all countries in which it operates and to promote effective companies that meet specified corporate responsibility resource management, energy efficiency, waste minimisation standards.
The following policies represent the basis of the and recycling initiatives.
Due to the nature of its business, Groups approach to corporate responsibility.
the Group does not have a high environmental impact.
Employment policy and employee involvement Community The Groups employees are integral to the success of the The Group aims to partner with local communities in which it business and, as a result, the Group pursues employment operates by supporting local initiatives and charitable events.
practices which are designed to attract, retain and develop SCi encourages its employees to participate as volunteers in this talent to ensure the Group retains its strong market such activities and supports these initiatives through position with motivated and satisfied employees.
donations, employee time and or other contributions.
During The Board and senior managers take responsibility for the year the Group participated in a variety of community employment matters and have established suitable policies related initiatives including: and guidelines.
Wherever possible, the Group seeks to 4 sponsorship of youth football events in London, in benchmark itself against industry best practice.
conjunction with the Metropolitan Police to encourage It is the Groups policy to give all staff an opportunity to sporting involvement and provide structured training: share in the future success of the business.
Historically this 4 provision of work experience programmes for secondary has been achieved through the SCi Share Option Plan, which school students to educate young people in business, expired in July 2006.
The Board, in conjunction with the economics and free enterprise within the games industry: remuneration committee, is currently in the process of 4 studio visits, student internships and career day activities evaluating long-term incentive policy for the Group with a in the US to provide participants with insight into the view to adopting an appropriate structure for future years.
game development process: and Proposals will be put to shareholders in due course.
4 donations of computer equipment and games to local Employees receive regular updates on corporate charities.
performance and developments through various formal and For the last two years the Group has also been working informal channels of communication, including the Groups closely with the staff of the Causeway Institute in Northern website and internal intranet.
The Group assists its Ireland, which offers a BTEC National Diploma course in employees in achieving an appropriate work life balance, by games development, to help ensure that the course material measures including policies on parental, maternity and accurately reflects the industry of today.
The Group fully paternity leave and flexible working where appropriate.
supports the introduction of more structured education in Workplace discrimination or harassment is not tolerated and game design and development, which will help increase the the Group is committed to providing equal opportunities to pool of talented developers available to work within the all employees.
industry, as well as providing a secure and exciting future for young people involved with the course.
Disabled employees During the 12 months to 30 June 2006, SCi made Applications for employment by disabled persons are always charitable donations of 10,400 2005: nil.
fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 27
