Social responsibility Social responsibility is as relevant to the music industry In the UK and Australia, we have been able to offer all as any other sector, and EMI is committed to playing employees a flexible benefits package which they can a constructive role in society and in the safeguarding customise to fit their personal circumstances.
Our social responsibility programme benefits offered by the package include the ability to buy began in the early 1990s and has evolved over time and sell annual holiday entitlement, discounted private to reflect our business and the expectations of our medical and dental insurance and savings on childcare.
In 2005 06, women made up 48% of all staff, compared We continue to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability to 47% the previous year: however, the number of women Index and FTSE4Good, and we are a founding and active in management decreased from 25% to 23%.
Ethnic member of the UKs Media CSR Forum.
More detailed minorities excluding Asia and Latin America made up information on our programme can be found in our annual 14% of all staff and 9% of management: this compares social responsibility reports, which are available on our to 15% and 5% respectively in the previous year.
of staff with self-reported disabilities remained broadly stable, at 0.3% of staff and 0.5% of management.
Employment The music business relies on creative and motivated During the year, there were 17 reportable injuries illnesses people.
We work hard to inspire and reward our employees 2.9 per 1,000 employees based on the UK standard and provide opportunities for personal and career measure: this is an improvement on the previous year development.
This ensures that we continue to recruit when there were 19 4.4 per 1,000 employees.
Days and retain the very best people.
absence from illness per employee was higher, at 3.9 days compared to 3.3 days.
In 2005, we launched a global employee survey to gather the views of our workforce.
The music industry has changed dramatically in recent years and the survey is an important step in understanding how EMI employees are responding to the changes.
The findings will help determine the future direction of our workplace and enable us to respond to the changing needs and expectations of our staff.
The survey had a high response rate, at 78%.
Results have been shared with employees and some new initiatives have already been implemented, for example in the area of internal communications.
We continue to equip our management with the skills they need to drive the business forward through our worldwide management development programme.
Targeted development and support means our senior managers are better able to compete in an industry that is undergoing such rapid and fundamental change.
We believe this type of long-term investment is critical to our success.
Business training is, of course, important at all levels of the organisation and globally EMI companies provide opportunities for staff to develop or enhance their skills.
Increasingly, development needs are identified and agreed through the performance appraisal systems that are being rolled out throughout the Group.
Last year 29% of the total workforce received some form of skills training, a 16% increase on the previous year.
32 Paul McCartney Paul McCartney opened Live 8 with a performance of Sgt Peppers Lonely Hearts Club Band, together with U2, and closed the show with a number of Beatles classics, including a rousing finale of Hey Jude.
33 Social responsibility continued Community In the UK, EMI is a founding corporate partner of Londons The focus for our community investment programme Roundhouse, a dynamic performing arts venue which is music education and we continued our support for includes a state-of-the-art community media resource a range of initiatives to enable young people to benefit providing young people with an opportunity to develop from wider access to music.
EMI Music Sound Foundation their creative skills.
We have funded a music studio there is our main initiative to boost music education in the UK and during the year we continued our support by hosting and Ireland.
Established by EMI in 1997, the independentlya reception in aid of the Roundhouse for music industry governed Foundation is based at our head office and professionals and press, running an in-house fundraising shares a very close working relationship with the business.
campaign, and offering professional help in a number of To find out about the work of the Foundation, which will areas including equipping the music studio and advice be celebrating its 10th anniversary next year, please visit on human resource issues.
Another important partnership is with Teach First, which Together with the Brit Trust, EMI and the EMI Music recruits top graduates to teach for two years before taking Sound Foundation once again collaborated on a project their skills and experiences into the business world: to date to enable schools across the UK to benefit from workshops about 50% of participants have opted to stay in teaching run by the London Sinfonietta, Britain s premier contemporary for at least a third year.
Our support has primarily been classical music ensemble.
This years project was based funding the recruitment and training of music teachers: by on Karlheinz Stockhausen, the godfather of electronica, September 2006, secondary students at 1 0 Londonschools whose music has influenced a number of popular EMI will be benefiting from better music education.
We also artists, including The Beatles, Goldfrapp and Kraftwerk.
recruit senior EMI staff members to act as coaches to the teachers, organise summer placements and host events.
In the US, music education was at the heart of two projects which EMI continued to support.
For the third year, we Our individual operating companies are free to direct their were involved in the Grammy Jazz Ensembles programme community efforts in a very local way, and for many years which enables talented high school students to meet, EMI Musics UK business has played a key role in helping share experiences and perform with Grammy-nominated to improve safety in its area of West London.
This year, artists, including a recording session at the Capitol EMI has been a driving force in a new initiative to encourage Studios in Los Angeles.
We also continued our partnership young people to contribute to their neighbourhoods with the California Institute of Arts to give music students which, in turn, would reduce the fear of crime.
The Safer the opportunity to record, produce and release their Neighbourhoods Annual Challenge asked 1119 year original work, working with Capitol Studios staff.
olds to identify problems in their neighbourhood and suggest, and then implement, solutions: these ranged from cleaning up public spaces to organising film evenings for local youth.
34 Benefit CDs are a unique way in which our industry can Environment contribute to the community, whether in aid of a specific Following our withdrawal from manufacturing in the charity or in response to a disaster.
Following Hurricane US and Europe in 2004, the sale of our CD plant in Japan Katrina and the devastation it caused in New Orleans, at the end of 2005 marked a further reduction in the EMI Music in the US produced a number of albums to environmental impacts that we manage directly.
However, raise money for the relief effort.
Our jazz label, Blue Note, we continue to ask our major product suppliers to report released the recording of Higher Ground, the Hurricane on key environmental performance indicators with the Relief Benefit Concert at New Yorks Lincoln Center aim of ensuring responsible environmental management which was produced by EMI artist and New Orleans in our supply chain.
Parlophone released Dr Johns Sippiana Hericane and EMIs Christian Music Group EMI offices, distribution centres and studios globally collaborated on the album Songs of Hope.
EMI also continue their efforts to find ways to reduce energy and worked in partnership with the rest of the music industry resource consumption and cut office and product waste to release Hurricane Relief: Come Together Now, a multiin line with our environmental policy.
artist album which included EMI stars such as Coldplay and Norah Jones.
Our carbon dioxide emissions dropped by 6.9% in absolute terms last year and by 13% when related to 2005 was also the year of Live 8, which drew attention turnover.
This decline is almost entirely due to the sale to third-world poverty through a series of free music of the Japanese factory.
The decrease in absolute energy concerts around the world.
EMI helped make the concerts use during the year was 5.7%.
Globally we source just on 2 July possible with its major financial contribution over 21% of our electricity demand from renewable together with a very generous royalty rate in return for sources.
Funds from the DVD will be utilised by the Band Aid Trust for the relief of hunger and poverty in Africa.
EMIs worldwide charitable cash contributions for the year were 0.9m: this was complemented by additional community investment from participation in industry fundraising events around the world, arts sponsorship, and donations of both staff time and gifts in kind.
In the UK, for the sixth consecutive year, EMI was a member of the PerCent Club, which recognises a community investment level of 1% or more of pre-tax profits.
Climate impact Climate impact CO emitted due to energy use in buildings kilotonnes CO emitted due to energy use in buildings per unit 2 2 of turnover tonnes m 60 150 50.3 48.9 121.
