12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 9 Corporate Responsibility The Group continues to adopt an approach to the management of corporate responsibility that balances the long-term interests of stakeholders by focusing on those matters which are relevant to our long-term success and the environment in which the business operates.
The Board is committed to act in a responsible manner.
This report sets out the key areas we have focused on during the period under review.
Our approach to corporate responsibility includes: n analysing and managing risk: n maintaining a continuing dialogue with stakeholders: and n managing the environmental and social impact of the business on employees and the community.
Social, Ethical and Environmental Risk Management The identification, management and monitoring of key risks is undertaken as part of the Groups system of internal control as described on page 27.
In addition, we work with employees, licensees and suppliers as appropriate to ensure we understand any issues which may impact on the workplace, the community or the environment.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the development and implementation of the approach to social responsibility matters.
All executive directors are responsible for the promotion of good practice in environmental matters and report to the Board as necessary on significant risks.
The most significant corporate responsibility issues for the Group are considered below and the Group has put in place policies to ensure: n compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of practice: n employees are provided with a safe working environment: and n ongoing training needs of employees are met.
The Workplace The Groups Health & Safety Policy the H&S Policy clearly states its intention to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
In order to deliver this policy, the Group has established an internal Health & Safety Management Group the H&S Group with responsibility for advising, reviewing and delivering the agreed management systems employed by the business to satisfy its health and safety responsibilities.
The H&S Group reports to the Company Secretary who is responsible for regular reporting to the Board.
The H&S Groups remit is carried out in accordance with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and all other relevant health & safety statutory provisions and approved codes of practice.
The H&S Group has adopted the principles contained in the Health and Safety Executive guidance HSG65 Managing Health and Safety, which includes the following specific requirements: n the establishment of a formal written policy: n the establishment of a communication system with staff: n the ongoing identification of risks and required responses: and n the ongoing measurement of performance and the continual improvement of process and procedure to address changing risks.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 9 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 10 Corporate Responsibility The H&S Group monitors accidents affecting staff, licensees and contractors, audits the understanding and application of the H&S policy and procedure by staff and contractors and, in July 2006, provided its annual report and risk assessment to the Board.
During the year the H&S Group has organised fire warden, first aid and lift evacuation training for office-based employees.
In addition, the H&S Group has introduced a policy to provide guidance for the health and safety of employees driving on Company business.
The Directors Report sets out employment policies and explains the way we communicate with employees.
The key risk area in our working environment is the health, safety and well-being of employees.
Employees work in a low risk environment.
Again there has been no material health and safety issue, incident or fine for noncompliance during the period under review.
The Environment The Group recognises its responsibility to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for improvement in areas of environmental impact.
Our approach is to work towards continuous improvement through education, communication and direct action where applicable.
i Carbon Management The Group has established an Environmental Impact Committee with a view to reviewing strategy and implementing policies to deliver high quality energy services to our pubs, including, in 2006: n continued promotion of cellar cooling maintenance contracts under which our licensees are able to utilise highly energy efficient cellar cooling equipment 4,097 pubs are currently under such contracts and to target the replacement of 10% of inefficient cellar cooling equipment each year to ensure optimal energy performance: n an improved working relationship with cellar cooling maintenance contractors: and n a detailed inventory of boiler performance was undertaken across approximately 100 sites, and an action plan will be implemented in 2007 to improve boiler quality across the pub estate.
In 2006 the Group adopted the Carbon Trusts Carbon Management approach across its operations, including our head office and the pub estate.
We appointed Ecofys, an external consultant, to provide specialist climate change expertise and to identify the risks and opportunities for the Group.
A comprehensive action plan was developed with the Carbon Trust to accelerate the integration of carbon issues throughout the Group and address our short, medium and long-term climate impacts.
The Group will continue to be supported by the Carbon Trust in 2007 to implement a range of measures focused on our most energy intensive activities: n pilot an energy efficient lighting programme in the pub estate, whereby discounted energy efficient lighting will be installed, delivering significant energy savings: 10 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 1 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 11 Corporate Responsibility n continue to develop an advanced maintenance contract for cooling and heating systems in the pub estate, including extensive maintenance to deliver improved energy efficiency e. g. efficiency checks, descaling of hot water heating elements and to ensure that the installation of all new mechanical plant carries the green flag efficiency mark to reduce wasted energy use: n consideration of an energy aggregation programme to introduce advanced billing and energy reporting methods to the pub estate and promote energy consciousness and efficiency amongst our licensees: n consideration of a focused awareness programme targeting our licensees who will be able to choose from a range of energy saving improvements for their pub and become involved in their implementation: and n undertake ongoing audits of the pub estate to accurately measure energy efficiency savings and monitor the progress of the above-mentioned initiatives.
At head office, a detailed energy audit was undertaken to identify opportunities to reduce the buildings energy consumption and assess the viability of alternative energy production.
In 2007, an energy management programme for the head office will be introduced to deliver energy savings of over 10%, especially over the weekend and outside office hours.
ii Other Environmental Issues At head office materials are recycled where possible and paper is sourced from a renewable and sustainable source.
Upon acquiring the building in 2002, the Group complied with the local planning authoritys environmental policy relating to the construction, occupation and utilisation of office facilities.
This included the provision of a transport policy aimed at reducing the demand for car parking and promoting employee behaviour consistent with local planning, environment and social policy.
The Group supports home working where appropriate.
During the year a head office catering facility was introduced and the kitchen equipment installed carries the green flagged efficiency rating.
Wherever possible biodegradable materials are used in its operation.
Through its membership of the British Beer and Pub Association BBPA, the Group has participated in the Governments consultation period seeking to clarify and implement glass recycling targets under the EU Waste Directive and has registered with a compliance scheme pursuant to our obligations under the Packaging Waste Regulations.
The Community and Social Issues The Group believes that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses are substantially aligned with the interests of local communities and consumers.
In this regard, the Group seeks to ensure that its pubs provide a friendly, safe and controlled environment, and promote the positive contributions that pubs make to their local communities.
The Group implemented the provisions of the Licensing Act 2003, which took effect on 24 November 2005, and worked extensively with licensees, local authorities and local communities to make appropriate applications for variation of licensing hours and conditions which balanced the opportunities and interests of all parties.
Through its membership of the BBPA, the Group continues to engage with Government departments within the Home Office and the Department for Culture, Media and Sport, to promote understanding of, and compliance with, the new licensing regime.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 11 12997ENTERPRI 11 12 06 4:23 pm Page 12 Corporate Responsibility A ban on smoking in public places was introduced in Scotland in March 2006, and is due to be introduced across England and Wales in 2007.
Notwithstanding the planned legislation, the Group has continued to promote the social and environmental benefits of a reduction in the incidence of smoking in pubs, and is continuing to work with licensees in preparation for implementation of the new legislation.
In addition: n the Group is committed to high standards of customer service to its licensees and gives serious consideration to complaints from the local community.
Procedures are in place to ensure disputes are monitored and dealt with quickly: n training is arranged to provide support to our licensees and to develop business potential: n the Group has recently revised and updated its Code of Practice under which the Group manages its relationships with licensees, and includes provisions in its agreements with licensees requiring licensed premises to be operated in a responsible manner: and n the Group seeks to ensure that appropriate and reasonable actions have been implemented across the pub estate to ensure its licensees comply with the Disability Discrimination legislation.
Finally as a corporate sponsor we continue to support the philosophy and ethos of The Prince of Waless Pub is the Hub campaign, encouraging rural licencees to diversify and deliver a wider range of services to the communities they serve, ensuring that the pub becomes the heart of the community and continues to thrive as a vital part of village life.
During the year a number of our licensees have developed a range of such services including the use of their premises as village shops and post offices.
Responsible Drinking The irresponsible consumption of alcohol can have detrimental effects on the social structures of local communities.
The Group recognises that pub licensees, retailers, the government and the consumer all have responsibilities as regards the promotion and management of a responsible drinking environment.
We seek to be responsible by the following means: n the Company is a voluntary contributor to the funding of the Drinkaware Trust, a new body which brings together industry, charities, lobby groups, medical professionals and experts in the field to address alcohol misuse and promote sensible drinking across the UK: n the Company is a signatory to the Portman Groups Code of Practice, and works proactively with drinks suppliers to ensure that they adhere to a responsible advertising, pricing and packaging regime: n the Group actively promotes the Portman Groups Proof of Age Card Scheme to all licensees and provides materials to all new licensees to enable them to operate the scheme in their premises: n through its membership of the BBPA, the Company has actively participated in discussions with Government in the preparation of its National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy: n the Group has also participated in a number of partnerships with local authorities to develop and implement local policies and strategies which are designed to address the potential consequences of alcohol misuse whilst not penalising the majority of responsible licensees and their customers: and n a number of the Groups suppliers have introduced sensible drinking messages on their products.
Future Corporate Responsibility Requirements The Board is committed to continuous improvement in its corporate responsibility practices where relevant to its operations and to build appropriate measures and procedures into its existing risk management and governance systems.
12 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2006 1
