46 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Corporate Social Responsibility Report Filtrona values As a responsible corporate citizen, Filtrona aims to act in a socially responsible manner at all times.
The Companys organisational structure is highly decentralised, and as such its businesses devise procedures appropriate to and compliant with local laws, culture and operating conditions but within the overall context of the Company values as set out in the Chief Executives Review on page 6 and the application of the principles detailed in this Report.
Filtrona policy The objective of Filtronas corporate social responsibility policy is to guide stakeholders, including employees, on the elements that drive the conduct of Filtrona businesses.
The way Filtrona does business reflects its commitment to profitable growth, sustainable development and integrity.
The Companys policies continue to promote fair and ethical dealings with customers and competitors as a matter of law and of conscience.
Filtrona is a member of the FTSE4Good Index which is designed to measure the performance of companies striving to meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards and to facilitate investment in those companies where corporate social responsibility issues are an influencing factor in an investors decision-making process.
The FTSE4Good Committee annually reviews the members for continued compliance with the criteria as laid down by the Committee.
Ethical business practices Filtronas Standards of Business Conduct Policy is applicable to all its businesses around the world.
This policy details the standards expected by Filtrona including free and fair competition, the prohibition of bribery and political donations and provides general guidance on honestly and fairly dealing with suppliers, customers and local and national authorities.
Filtrona is committed to working with its suppliers to ensure the welfare of workers and employment conditions within its supply chain meet or exceed internationally recognised standards.
Employees Filtrona recognises that its employees are the Companys most vital resource and their importance in making the Company successful.
Filtrona is guided by the aim of delivering a competitive and fair employment environment and to providing the opportunity for employees to develop and advance subject to personal performance and business objectives.
Throughout its worldwide operations, Filtrona supports human rights as set down by the UN Declaration and its applicable International Labour Organisation conventions.
Recruitment procedures avoid the employment of under-age staff.
Filtrona is committed to offering equal opportunities to all people without discrimination as to race, sex, nationality, ethnic or national origin, language, age, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or disability.
The Company does not tolerate harassment in the workplace in any form and remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance, competitors and local market conditions.
Filtrona encourages an open and honest culture in all its dealings with employees.
Channels of communication appropriate to Filtronas local businesses have been established to allow employees to voice their views and concerns and the Company briefs all employees and their representatives on all relevant matters on an ongoing basis.
For example, the Company has a European Information and Consultation Forum in respect of its operations in the European Union and this forum met in the UK during 2006 to hear presentations on Company performance as well as to discuss progress on health & safety matters and environmental issues.
The Filtrona Whistleblowing Policy sets out guidelines under which employees can raise certain issues regarding ethical behaviour or legal compliance with their own business or directly with Filtrona plc in confidence.
Under this policy employees may come forward without fear of their position and have the option to consult an independent external party.
As part of its commitment to training and development within its businesses, the Company operates a graduate development programme in Europe and North America together with a number of local internship and apprentice placements.
In the course of 2006, the Company established a Learning Centre at its Filters facility in Jarrow, UK, under a joint funding arrangement with the Trades Union Congress.
This facility is available to all employees and their families and since inception over 50% of the employees at the site have accessed a variety of courses including National Vocational Qualifications.
47 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Filtrona Health, Safety & Environment HS&E Council The Company has established the Filtrona HS&E Council under the chairmanship of the Director of Group Human Resources, who reports directly to the Chief Executive, and it includes representatives from all the operating businesses.
This body is responsible for reviewing the HS&E performance, developing appropriate standards and procedures and overseeing the Companys internal HS&E auditing process.
At the end of 2006 the Company introduced the Filtrona Group Safety Awards whereby sites can achieve gold, silver and bronze status on the basis of performance assessed against stringent criteria set by the Filtrona HS&E Council.
In 2006, ITC Filtrona in India achieved a silver award.
An annual assessment of sites will be conducted for future awards.
Health & safety A key driver of Filtronas success has been the high degree of autonomy which has been afforded to local management, allowing them to serve local markets in the most appropriate manner.
Within this decentralised structure the Company has established core health and safety policies which the businesses are required to implement.
These procedures are designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and, wherever possible, to employ best practice.
One of the objectives of the Company is to achieve improvements in health and safety, and ongoing initiatives are designed to monitor, assess and action performance.
This is driven not only by Filtronas commitment to meeting its legal responsibilities but also by an ethical desire to protect all employees from dangers in the workplace.
With the introduction of a new group monitoring system the Company is better equipped than ever before to record accidents and also to continually review performance.
This system has enabled the implementation of an extensive programme of active monitoring that measures how the working environments are being managed.
During 2006 comprehensive training occurred at all worldwide locations so that the collection of accurate data is embedded within the organisation.
The Company believes that the introduction of the new group monitoring system has led to an increased focus on health & safety performance and provided management with additional visibility of relevant performance statistics.
Details of the Companys health and safety performance for 2006 can be viewed at the Companys website www.
The Company manages occupational health by identifying key risk activities, undertaking health assessments and, where appropriate, implementing health surveillance programmes.
Environment Filtrona recognises the impact that its businesses have on the environment and, as a minimum standard, complies with current applicable legislation in the countries in which it operates.
All of the Companys European businesses comply with EU and domestic waste management regulations.
It is Company policy that all principal manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 accredited.
In addition, three of the Companys businesses are accredited to the international standard for Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems, OHSAS 18001 two in the US and one in India.
The group monitoring system is also being used to record raw material usage, energy usage and waste levels.
All locations are actively improving their statistics by recycling raw materials, thus reducing waste levels which would normally go to landfill.
Where raw materials cannot be recycled on site, alternative uses are being investigated with the aid of third parties.
Filtrona is commited to continuous improvement in environmental performance, the prevention of pollution and to improving efficiency in the use of resources including energy, water, packaging and other raw materials.
At Alliance Plastics, Erie, US the injection moulding facility has reduced the costs of electrical power over the past two years while increasing manufacturing throughput.
The reduction in costs has been driven through capital expenditure focused on new energy efficient equipment combined with energy cost saving initiatives.
These reductions have been achieved while the cost of energy has increased.
Also, as part of the ISO 14001 programme, waste reduction initiatives have been undertaken and the volume of raw materials entering landfill has reduced.
48 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Corporate Social Responsibility Report At Filtrona Filters, Jarrow, considerable changes were implemented during the year.
Prior to 2006, all filter and board waste was going to landfill at considerable cost and environmental impact.
Following the changes one hundred percent of all filter waste is baled and used as a low emissions fuel by a manufacturer of bio-diesel from cooking oil.
Filtrona Extrusion, Chicago, installed a pump station in order to more efficiently return process water to the chill water station.
This station reduces water consumption by at least 100,000 gallons per year.
Filtrona Filters, Bangalore, was awarded during 2006 the Parisara Premi, translated as Friends of Environment.
The award was granted on the recommendation of the State Government Pollution Control Board.
TM The eTree project, encouraging shareholders to receive future communications electronically instead of in paper form, ensures that for each positive response a tree is donated to the Woodland Trust.
The wider community Filtrona is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen through the support for appropriate non-political and non-sectarian projects across a range of organisations and charities.
Regardless of regional or national boundaries the Company aims to support the creation of prosperous, educated, sustainable and healthy communities in the countries and cultures in which it operates.
With a focus on education and enterprise, health and welfare and the environment, it has developed target programmes for local communities, often involving commercial sponsorship and significant employee engagement through direct involvement or secondment.
There is encouragement to the businesses to support local charities both with financial and non-financial donations, be they educational, sporting or health-related: Financial and material assistance for the flood victims of Thailand and the earthquake victims of Indonesia In India, the delivery of a wide range of social investment programmes focusing on basic needs including the provision of water, power and sanitation to nearby community facilities, local school support, an Aids awareness campaign and environmental education In Brazil, the provision of IT equipment to a local institute for disabled children In Venezuela, financial support to the local blood bank and a local orphanage, plus sponsorship of a local youth football team In the US, the provision of a number of internships, sponsoring of local youth sports teams and charitable donations to a diverse range of both national and local organisations In the UK, the provision of work-experience placements, the sponsorship of local school activities and charitable donations to a diverse range of both national and local organisations Applying Filtronas principles The business principles reported above are underpinned by a series of policies which can be viewed via the Corporate Social Responsibility page on the website www.
The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility for this area of activity, whilst business managers are responsible for ensuring the underlying policy commitments are applied.
The Director of Group Human Resources, supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible for co-ordinating the operation of the policies and reporting on them to the Chief Executive.
