Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group THIRTY-NINE Corporate Social Responsibility The complexities of managing an international oilfield services group require that Expro has in place policies, procedures, and systems suitable for a group of its size, operating as it does in many severe environment locations around the world.
The response of our staff to these requirements is excellent and it is only with their co-operation that we are able to report good progress in all areas of CSR for the year.
We are very pleased to report that the year has seen a real improvement in our Health and Safety performance, with the number of Lost Time Incidents LTI reported in the year reduced by half, compared with the previous year, despite an increase in hours worked of 17%.
Our other key indicators of Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF and Total Recordable Case Frequency TRCF not only showed considerable reduction on prior year performance, but beat the challenging targets set by the Board for the year.
In benchmarking our performance against the industry, by reference to the index published by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OGP, we have once again demonstrated that our performance is best in class.
The management, supervision and training of our staff all play key roles in delivering this performance.
For the second year running, the group has received a significant safety award with the recent announcement as winner of RoSPAs Oil, Gas and Water Industry Sector Award for Occupational Health and Safety, beating off strong competition from several major players in the oil and gas and utilities sector.
Following on from our Gold Award last year, this is an accolade of which the group can be proud.
Once again, we have no environmental spills to report and, in a year of increased operational activity, our internal housekeeping with regards to resource consumption in terms of energy use, waste generation and recycling has been very good.
Having determined that we have a very low level of environmental impact, by the acquisition of raw data and the achievement of targets, we no longer report in detail, but will focus instead on the extent of any changes in profile and impact.
In our CSR report, we draw attention to the extensive training that has taken place during the year, not just for those engaged in operational activities, though this is in itself impressive, but also to such matters as sales training and the implications of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act for those working in the US or for US clients overseas.
Coupled with investment in training, we also refer to the level of investment in facilities around the globe, including that in Aberdeen which saw the opening of a new Technology Centre in September 2005.
The facility brings together multi-discipline engineers in one location, where they work on a variety of projects varying from new product development to specific project orientated subsea solutions, to providing operational support to the business globally.
The group has not been the subject of any regulatory enquiry, has not received any fines for any operational incident, and has one reported whistle-blowing incident.
Actual vs Actual Actual Target Actual prior year Measure Description 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2005 06 % Long Term Injury Frequency No of LTIs per 1m man hours 1.19 1.1 0.8 0.5 55% Total Recordable Case Frequency No of injurious incidents per 1m man hours 4.7 3.5 3.0 2.2 37% Spills Spills reaching the environment Nil Nil Nil Nil Colin Ainger Corporate Development Director
