Corporate Social Responsibility The group is very clear as to the increasing importance of all areas of Corporate Social Responsibility in the conduct of the company, its employees and its suppliers.
Investor interest is increasingly concerned with our stance in this area and the group is determined to remain both fully compliant with all relevant legislation and increasingly involved in such matters.
This year, we have become involved with the Carbon Disclosure Project Secretariat in expressing our views and involvement in greenhouse gas emissions, although it is recognised that, as a predominantly non-manufacturing company, our emissions in this area are not significant.
The Findel company secretary, Dr I J Bolton, has overall responsibility for all corporate social responsibility affairs and he devolves day to day responsibility to the group director of health & safety.
The latter chairs a review body which meets to assess legislative or other directives in order to set strategy and targets, and review the groups progress against these.
This review body comprises senior facilities and purchasing managers from the groups major operating companies.
We have now been compiling gures for four years on which to base our future targets.
Environmental policy With the increasing importance across the world and the UK of energy consumption and global warming, we have identied that, as a predominantly distribution company with minimal manufacturing involvement, our environmental policy concentrates on energy consumption, waste disposal and, on a wider scope, product sourcing.
Our overall aim within this is to reduce our effect on the environment year on year as measured against our sales growth.
In particular, we are: Working with key suppliers to improve both their compliance and performance with, for example, electrical appliances that we sell: Actively considering and, where relevant, implementing recommendations to improve our environmental performance: Monitoring and seeking to achieve our set targets on best practice in these areas: Ensuring that we comply with all environmental legislation.
As a mail order distribution company, one of our key areas of focus is reducing the consumption of materials, especially paper and packaging.
significant studies have been taken across the past year to harmonise best principles across the group.
For example, changing from carbon inll materials and corrugated paper, bubble wrap, greenll chips, etc.
This has now been introduced across almost the whole of the groups operations.
Waste reduction and re-cycling has also been rolled out across the group with increasing success.
A major concentration is currently taking place on reducing the number of parcels required to effect individual customers deliveries.
This has a dual benefit of both reducing packaging and transport, and hence C0 emission.
2 Energy Our major use of energy is in heating, lighting and powered conveying equipment, and in the internal vehicle eet.
Consolidation of the groups activities has enabled us to dispose of one major ofce site and significant warehouse space during the year, which has a significant effect on our overall energy usage.
Vehicle eets CO emissions are calculated and measured monthly and we have continued our move towards a more 2 diesel oriented eet in order to further reduce this.
Material consumption and waste management With ever increasing volumes of product emanating from the Far East and India, our well-established Ethical Trading Policy documents remain key to our selection and ongoing trading with suppliers in those regions.
This policy document clearly lays out our contractual standards in order to meet both United Nations and local laws on working conditions, employment, pay rates, holidays, etc.
Resident staff in both India and Hong Kong enable us to ensure that these standards are met on an ongoing basis.
Regular and surprise visits to suppliers are a key part in ensuring compliance.
Human resources With the exception of some 25 staff based in India and Hong Kong, the group is a UK based employer.
Many of our sites are located in multi-cultural areas and we work hard to create and run a fair, equal opportunities employment culture that embraces this multi-culturism, of which prayer areas on some sites are representative.
We are also committed to promotion on merit and lling job opportunities in-house wherever possible.
Community Support Both the company and its employees work to support local communities, predominantly in the areas where we have group facilities.
Our Home Shopping and Educational Supplies products are also much in demand for donating to less privileged schools, good causes and establishments, both in the UK and abroad.
