Corporate social responsibility review FKI defines corporate social responsibility CSR as the impact its businesses have on its employees, partners, customers, shareholders, the environment and both the local and international community.
As such, FKI firmly believes that good CSR practice is not only desirable but makes good business sense.
The Group strives to maintain its status as a responsible corporate citizen through continuous improvement in all areas of CSR.
FKIs commitment to CSR is demonstrated through its listing on the FTSE4Good Sustainability Index for the third year running.
It also maintains less formal relationships with other CSR linked bodies including Business in the Community BITC, SAM Indexes GmbH compilers of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service and the Carbon Trust.
FKIs continuing progress in CSR demonstrates it is a Group that: Has a clear strategy and defined performance targets Continually seeks out better methods of operation Strives to improve service to customers by developing innovative products, systems and solutions Displays the highest standards of trust and integrity Strives towards sustainability A full version of the Individual businesses include CSR issues as part of their routine risk annual CSR review management which forms part of the Groups established, structured is available on FKIs approach to risk management.
The importance of CSR is recognised at the highest level.
co. uk for the Groups CSR policies, implementation and monitoring rests with the Chief Executive and is coordinated by the Director of Group Human Resources.
This responsibility is delegated to the President or Managing Director of each Company.
CSR objectives are ultimately met by the collective efforts of all Company employees worldwide.
Each year, as part of the annual reporting process, the Group reviews the performance of each of its businesses in what FKI considers to be the three key areas of CSR: Social and Ethical Policy and Practice Health and Safety Policy and Practice The Environment Information compiled from questionnaires sent to each business unit allows FKI to monitor performance, achievement of set targets and individual business unit contributions to CSR.
The annual report includes a summary of the Groups performance with a full version of the annual CSR review available on FKIs website www.
co. uk investorrelations or from the Company Secretary.
26 FKI plc Social and ethical policy and practice FKI recognises that the practice of sound social and ethical responsibility will deliver competitive advantage and contribute to the Groups long-term success.
The greatest contribution that the Group makes in this area comes from the wealth created by maintaining employment, both within the Group and through its supply network.
Social and ethical policy The FKI social and ethical policy is applied in all businesses worldwide and acts as a reference point to guide employees and other stakeholders on the aspects that drive the conduct of FKIs business relationships.
The policy contains detailed provisions covering the following aspects: Standard of conduct to be followed in dealing with employees and everyone with whom the Group has relationships 93% Compliance with the law and applicable regulations of employees covered by social Sound employment policies, which take account of labour rights and ethical policy and conventions, include recruitment, employment, promotion on fair and legal grounds and prohibit discrimination Commitments to customers, partners and suppliers Safeguarding of shareholders interests including applying good corporate governance and prohibiting insider dealing Utmost integrity in business dealings and absolute probity in business transactions Avoidance of conflicts of interest by employees Community involvement and charitable assistance Engagement with government and other organisations to promote and defend FKIs business interests Continuous improvements in managing its environmental impact Full compliance with Health and Safety regulations Safeguarding and maximising the use of Group property Protection of confidential information Communication of policies to appropriate stakeholders 1 In addition to FKIs policy, 66% [63%] of business units operate their own complementary social and ethical policy, which includes 93% of employees.
These policies are regularly reviewed and updated and are shaped to meet the needs of the individual businesses.
The vast majority of FKI business units also have an individual member of staff who is responsible for social and ethical matters.
1 27 27 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review Figures in square brackets [] are the equivalent figures from 2004 05.
The Groups social and ethical policy states that it respects the legal right FKI Logistex Airport, Post & Parcel North of employees to membership of trade unions: 37% of its workforce is America as well as making donations to unionised and 55% are covered by collective agreements.
In early 2000, various charities also funded a newspaper the Energy Technology European Works Council was set up to represent for a local school for a year and members European-based businesses within the Energy Technology group.
of staff participated in the American Heart The Council meets formally once a year: it first met on 24 May 2005 Associations Heart Walk.
with its second annual meeting planned for 12 July this year.
As part of social and ethical practice, FKI recognises the need to encourage the development of its staff, with around 70% of business units offering an employee personal development and review programme, which covers Bristol Babcock Inc sponsored a Toys for 84% of the workforce.
On average, this year, the number of training days Tots campaign at Christmas.
They also per employee was two days.
organised a company picnic during which Companies recruited into 1,381 positions this year, 22% of which were they raised funds through donations and internal recruitments.
As well as direct recruitment opportunities, FKI also other activities.
operates an engineering graduate recruitment programme, which is fully accredited by the relevant professional bodies.
Charity and community FKI businesses are encouraged to support the local communities in which Crosby Europe NV organise a yearly visit to they operate.
FKI also supports charitable activities and donations to both the plant for a local school as part of their local and international good causes through its corporate donations policy, training, and offers traineeships to the students updated in 2004 to include the potential for funds raised by employees of the local technical schools.
The company towards charitable causes to be matched by donations from the Group.
makes donations to a local football team, This year 68% [48%] of FKIs businesses, representing 85% of employees, sponsors local activities through publicity, participated in local community activities, charitable events or made and purchases sponsored office supplies such charitable donations to good causes.
A large number of these businesses as UNICEF Christmas cards.
supported development of the local community, donating time and money to local charities, schools, hospitals and sports teams etc.
A number of US-based companies also regularly participate in workplace American Brush Traction made charitable donations Red Cross blood donation programmes.
through the Brush Site Welfare Fund to local causes including Rainbows Childrens A large percentage of FKIs US-based businesses also support United Way, Hospice, Charnwood Stroke Club, Glebe a charity which includes around 1,350 community-based organisations House Project, Help the Aged local handy-van run by local volunteers.
This support includes voluntary deductions from service, LOROS Leicestershire and Rutland employee wages and locally organised fundraising events.
Hospice and Project 5000 for the homeless FKI also makes annual contributions to the Headstart scheme, part of and less fortunate.
The Engineering Development Trust which in turn is a component of The Royal Academy of Engineerings Best programme.
The Headstart scheme promotes careers in science and engineering to 16-17 year olds Brush Electrical Machines donates money, through university-based, residential courses.
The Group is also becoming facilities and personnel to a number of local more directly involved with Headstart through its graduate scheme, projects through local charity, Leicestershire providing volunteer graduates to speak at a number of the residential Cares.
These projects include Leicestershire courses.
FKI embraces opportunities like this to re-invest in the Independent Youth Trust, Right to Read engineering graduates of the future.
Other charities to which businesses have contributed include the Indian Ocean Earthquake appeal, Chinese Aid Development Council, American Cancer Society, Salvation Army and Cancer Research.
Marelli Motori receives into its canteen children from the Chernobyl area, who are guests of local families as part of a health improvement programme.
28 28 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review Social and ethical compliance This year, there were four [three] complaints made against FKI companies, one of which involved 15 individual complaints: ten of these have been dismissed with the other five pending further investigation.
Of the remaining three cases, one was dismissed as unfounded following a thorough investigation: the other two are currently active pending mediation.
There were five [three] cases of disciplinary action against employees.
Four resulted from a breach of social and ethical policy leading to one written discipline, one suspension and two dismissals.
The fifth case was a breach of contract also resulting in dismissal.
Auditing for compliance FKI implemented a policy of peer auditing in 2004 to facilitate accelerated continuous improvement in social and ethical policy and practice, whereby business units are audited by their peers to assess the compliance with Group policy at operating business level.
No major non-compliance issues were identified in those businesses audited in 2005.
All minor non-compliance issues were resolved within the agreed timescales.
The FKI human resources network Independent audits A Group-wide network of people involved in human resource operations ensure FKI remains was established during 2004 05.
This network has continued to be active in 2005 06 as a vehicle for more effective and consistent implementation progressive in Health and of Group policies and continues to uphold FKIs commitment to CSR.
Safety policy and practice Health and Safety policy and practice FKI maintains its commitment to progression towards an accident-free Health and Safety culture, believing that almost all are preventable.
The diagram on page 30 illustrates that Health and Safety commitment starts at the highest level of management, with a structure put in place to drive improvement throughout the Groups worldwide operations.
FKI is committed to full compliance with Health and Safety regulations in the workplace for all of its employees worldwide.
Businesses are requested to record all unsafe acts, near misses and injuries during operations.
These are then analysed to enable continuous improvement through shared knowledge, new initiatives and improved working practices.
This year a UK Health and Safety audit programme was launched in conjunction with the Groups insurance brokers, AON, which resulted in a number of local practice changes.
This audit programme will now be rolled out to most Group companies worldwide.
Independent audits such as this ensure FKI remains progressive in this area and that Health and Safety systems are improved and maintained in line with best practice.
29 29 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review FKI Health and Safety roles Health and Safety policy and responsibilities In order to ensure that its workplaces are safe and to provide a sustainable healthy working environment FKI pledges to: ACCIDENT FREE CULTURE Consider Health and Safety in all transactions Meet or exceed current Health and Safety legislation The Guardians FKI Board of Directors Introduce and maintain good working practices Strategic control, policy approval, monitoring Develop effective Health and Safety procedures including identifying improvement, managing the external interface and assigning responsibilities within each organisation and providing resources.
Make employees aware of potential risks, hazards, safe systems of working, operating procedures and their responsibilities and The Champions Group Health, Safety statutory obligations: and Environmental Committee Provide appropriate training Operational control, policy development, monitoring performance, prioritising areas Continually improve systems for recording, reporting and analysing for improvement, integrating best practice accidents and incidents and reviewing for compliance.
Set and publish objectives and targets and monitor progress and assess performance in relation to these targets The Experts Health, Safety and This policy is in operation in all FKI companies globally.
A dedicated Environmental network Health and Safety committee is set up in a large proportion of FKI Ensuring data integrity, data analysis, companies, representing 99% of the workforce.
These committees are translating policy into practice, identifying tasked with driving down accident rates and ensuring that the working and sharing best practice, influencing environment remains safe for all personnel.
Detailed performance is regulatory compliance and disseminating measured in 89% [73%] of FKI businesses, covering 99% of employees new regulations.
and 66% [54%] 90% of employees currently practice the setting of improvement targets.
The Enforcers Health and Safety performance Operational Line Managers Communicating and educating, ensuring FKI follows the UK classification of incidents for Group reporting.
compliance with local policy and practice, Health and Safety reporting guidelines are communicated to every investigating incidents accidents breaches, company to assist them in reporting their performances each year.
eradicating root causes, enforcing agreed All businesses are also aware of local legislation and reporting standards and performing risk assessments.
mechanisms and often report under both sets of procedures.
The graph on page 31 plots the total number of recorded incidents and occurrences and the Group Accident Frequency Rate respectively.
The Agents of Change Each Employee The Accident Frequency Rate AFR, previously calculated to include Complying with and endorsing all local dangerous occurrences, has been re-stated this year for clarity of reporting.
Health and Safety rules and regulations, Defined as the average number of incidents per 100,000 man hours reporting incidents and accidents, challenging worked, the AFR now excludes dangerous occurrences, also known as current practice through identifying to near misses or close calls.
These occurrences will continue to be colleagues any ways in which hazards and recorded by companies and the data utilised internally.
All historic AFR risks can be reduced or removed.
values have been adjusted as necessary to allow a direct comparison.
This year has seen a continued decrease in the total number of actual incidents, that is, major incidents, work related illnesses and other reportable incidents.
There has also been a marginal improvement in the Groups AFR, however, due to arithmetic rounding this improvement is not indicated in the final figure.
There have been positive improvements in Group Health and Safety, however, further work is required in this area to further reduce the AFR.
30 30 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review This year, there has been a significant rise in the number of dangerous occurrences, the magnitude of which warranted further investigation.
Following discussions with the individual companies, it is believed that the majority of the increase can be attributed to a greater employee awareness of Health and Safety and what classifies as an accident risk and therefore improved reporting.
In all cases, reported dangerous occurrences are 99% investigated and preventative measures applied.
It is in the recording of employees are covered by a dedicated of dangerous occurrences and their subsequent resolution that FKI aims Health and Safety Committee to reduce the number of future incidents and injuries and hence continue to move towards its goal of an accident-free culture.
Regrettably, there was a fatality this year of an FKI Logistex employee working on a customer site in North America.
The investigation into this incident is currently ongoing.
Within the Group, three units received fines in relation to Health and Safety regulations but there were no Health and Safety related convictions.
The fines were all incurred by businesses in the US.
One of the fines resulted from a Health and Safety audit following an accident at work the previous year.
The company in question has implemented the required changes in line with the audit recommendations and these have been accepted.
The other two fines were for relatively minor breaches, neither of which resulted in injury.
Both policy and practice have been reviewed by the units in order to prevent recurrence.
Relative performance standards As part of FKIs drive towards an accident-free culture, all business units have been encouraged to identify a comparative industry sector accident frequency rate AFR as an external benchmark for Health and Safety performance.
Currently just under half of the business units have identified a target AFR, 7% more than last year, and of these 80% have successfully achieved or bettered this target.
FKI will continue to encourage external benchmarking with the aim of accelerating improvements in all areas of Health and Safety.
31 31 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review The environment FKI remains committed to minimising any adverse impact its businesses have on the environment.
Local business management is responsible for enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities and obligations and managing risks associated with environmental matters.
Supporting this commitment, 72% [70%] of FKI companies, representing 86% of Group turnover, have an environmental coordinator and nearly 38%, representing 54% of turnover, have an environmental committee.
The importance of environmental issues is emphasised to employees with 30% [30%] of FKI companies, representing 44% of the workforce, providing environmental training as part of new employee orientation programmes.
The Groups main areas of impact on the environment are in the use of energy and water and the production of solid and liquid waste.
Where appropriate, companies have been encouraged to implement environmental management systems compatible with ISO14001.
19% of Group sales are made by companies maintaining this standard.
11% of businesses are accredited by other environmental standards, contributing 13% of Group sales.
Continuous improvement in environmental performance is facilitated through implementation of the Group environmental policy, monitoring of environmental performance and internal and external auditing.
Environmental policy FKI is committed to the protection and conservation of the environment in all of its operations.
The Groups environmental policy involves the implementation of an operational management system within each business unit enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities and obligations.
FKIs environmental policy aims to: 72% Develop, install and maintain environmental management systems of FKI companies have an Meet or exceed current environmental legal requirements environmental coordinator Focus on product stewardship, identifying ways of improving efficiency throughout the supply chain and manufacturing processes to reduce consumption Use environmentally responsible suppliers and subcontractors Give preference to alternatives for scarce and non-renewable resources Develop and market products and services meeting environmental standards and target each product to be produced more efficiently than its predecessors Maintain control of discharges and emissions Raise awareness of environmental issues Identify and communicate best practice throughout the Group Set and revise environmental targets and policies Pursue sustainable practices and processes in all operations 32 32 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review All Group businesses have adopted the corporate environmental policy.
One example of how businesses are applying policy in practice is the implementation of lean operations.
Most FKI companies have adopted, or are planning to adopt Lean in order to streamline processes and improve efficiency through elimination of waste and non-value adding activities.
Environmental performance Assessment of environmental risks occurs during day-to-day business operations as part of FKIs risk management process.
In addition to Recycling not only offers this practice, 26% [21%] of businesses, accounting for 47% of Group turnover, reported completion of a local environmental risk assessment a solution to reduce net in 2005 06.
In order to ensure environmental conformity, 45% of waste output but is also companies, representing 64% of turnover, carried out a combination of internal, governmental and independent environmental audits this year commercially beneficial including assessment of air quality, waste water quality, noise, ergonomics, oil storage and spillage control and legislative and environmental certification compliance.
Seven [six] formal, environmental complaints were received during the year, one of which resulted in a prosecution and fine.
This complaint concerned water pollution resulting from the unsafe discharge of waste water into a local stream by a China-based company.
The company is currently installing a sewage treatment and disposal facility to rectify the situation, which should be completed by the end of July 2006.
Of the remaining six, one complaint regarding noise was dismissed after investigation from the Ministry of the Environment US found levels to be within legal limits.
In all cases, the companies acted responsibly, thoroughly investigating the complaint and communicating with the necessary environmental bodies.
Where responsibility for the fault lay with the companies, each took the required steps to resolve the issue and prevent future occurrences.
Environmental improvements This year, 23% of FKI companies, accounting for 18% of Group turnover, have introduced environmentally friendly initiatives, in many cases with the focus directed towards the customer.
These initiatives include: encouraging customers to use biodegradable lubricant, increased use of electronic means for distribution of information to customers, recommending a bulk packaging programme to eliminate excess consumer packaging, more fuel efficient and lower emission engines for a major High Speed Train HST programme, replacement of hazardous substances with environmentally friendly alternatives, waste segregation, re-design of products to meet environmental standards, use of returnable packaging, reduction in consumables, quality review documentation being made available to customers on request, eliminating thoriated welding rods and decommissioning an acid line.
One FKI company based in Denmark reported that 50% of its supplied electricity is sourced from renewable energy: 20% from wind turbines, 30% from biomass.
Another UK-based company is currently undertaking a study into the possible use of wind turbines.
33 33 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review Energy consumption Energy consumption kgCO 2 kgCO 000 turnover FKIs energy consumption is based on individual consumption of 2 electricity, natural gas, diesel etc which is then converted to an equivalent 284000000 273269161 2258597268 249999100 242102831 229860252 of carbon dioxide CO2 in kilograms.
This allows a year-on-year direct 163 168 178 186 174 159 comparison, where the term carbon dioxide emissions represents the best estimate of overall energy consumption.
The bar chart opposite shows a continuing reduction in absolute CO 2 emissions.
Total CO emissions for this year have reduced by 5% compared 2 to last year, exceeding the Groups target of 1% reduction.
This years emissions are also 19% less than those recorded in 2001.
The line graph represents absolute CO2 emissions adjusted for business activity levels by dividing by Group turnover in 000s.
The resultant 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 figures indicate that business unit actions reduced CO2 emissions by 8.7% compared to the prior year.
Such trends demonstrate FKIs commitment to the environment Water consumption and its continuing drive towards sustainability.
m3 m3 000 turnover Water consumption 2945000 2431005 2152499 2121480 1999656 2084930 1.69 1.50 1.48 1.58 1.44 1.44 The bar chart opposite shows that Group absolute water consumption has increased this year by 4.3%, which is due to the acquisition of a Chinese company with a high water usage.
Excluding this acquisition, the data reveals an overall reduction in Group water consumption of 2%, the result of improved water conservation by the remaining businesses, 58% of whom reported a reduction in water consumption in 2005 06.
Pro rata water consumption m3 000 turnover increased this year by just 0.29% but again excluding the Chinese companys data reveals pro rata water consumption actually reduced by 5.4%.
The changing nature 2003 2001 2002 2004 2005 2006 of FKIs business portfolio means that absolute values are not directly comparable year-on-year.
Accounting for Group turnover allows for a much more accurate picture and gives a better indication of environmental performance.
The Groups fresh water consumption is considered by FKI to have a great impact on the environment.
Waste control measures and reviews are therefore in constant effect in the day to day operation of businesses globally.
Waste disposal and recycling FKI businesses are required to report on both liquid and solid waste within the CSR review process.
The disposal costs are reported within the CSR report along with the disposal cost per 000 turnover to allow a year-on-year comparative figure.
These figures are presented below.
Each unit which produces solid or liquid waste is responsible for disposing of that waste through cost effective and environmentally acceptable methods.
No environmental permits were revoked in 2005 06.
34 34 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review Liquid waste disposal Liquid waste disposal cost 000 FKI produces waste liquid mainly from water used for cooling purposes, disposal costs 000 turnover surface treatments, washing down products during the production process 1097 994 792 627 789 489 and sanitary purposes.
Some businesses which produce relatively large 0.63 0.61 0.55 0.47 0.57 0.34 quantities of waste water and liquid as a result of manufacturing processes have water treatment plants that are monitored regularly by local water authorities.
Where water meets strict standards, discharge into rivers is permitted.
Permitted discharge into sewers is also regulated and occurs only with approval.
Liquid waste may also be removed by registered disposal companies.
Where petroleum, bulk hazardous chemicals or acid wastes are required to be stored on site, appropriate permits are held by the relevant businesses.
Where companies cannot treat liquid waste they have permits in place for the removal and treatment of the waste off site.
2003 2001 2002 2004 2005 2006 Consistent and suitable monitoring and reporting of liquid waste processing procedure is in place in all businesses.
The graph opposite shows a continuing downward trend in liquid waste Solid waste disposal cost disposal costs in 2005 06.
The spike representing 2004 05 is largely 000 disposal costs 000 turnover attributable to high costs experienced by a Lifting Products and Services company following improved environmental reporting.
Improvements in environmental reporting are believed to be key in controlling waste levels and associated costs.
Solid waste disposal The Groups expenditure on processing solid waste reduced this year by 16% on last years costs.
Comparison with the rest of the graph shows that the disposal costs for 2006 are marginally higher than those of 2004 but are slightly lower after adjusting for activity levels data plotted on line graph.
It is the aim of FKI to continue to reduce solid waste levels and hence disposal costs across the Group.
Where there is an opportunity to recycle solid waste produced during operations, FKI businesses take great advantage of this.
74% of companies, producing 97% of Group turnover, recycle part or all of the solid waste they produce, the overall income from which is substantially higher than the disposal costs of the remaining solid waste and liquid waste together.
Recycling therefore not only offers a solution to reduce net waste output levels but is also commercially beneficial if fully embraced.
Summary The Group remains committed to driving continuous improvement in all areas of CSR performance.
In a diversified Company such as FKI, a balance must be maintained between application of policy by the corporate centre and delegation of responsibility to the local businesses.
The growth of Group wide communications continues to have a positive influence on CSR performance in all businesses.
This is displayed through improved target setting, benchmarking, company reporting and performance.
As businesses share best practice examples and communicate their local strategies, experiences and performance levels, further improvements can be expected.
35 35 FKI plc FKI plc Corporate social responsibility review
