26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility We aim to contribute to the development Employees of sustainable communities by encouraging Industrial Relations and Manpower transport of goods via water and by investment The Groups employees are an important part of our success and we recognise and value the importance of good industrial relations.
1989 no days have been lost to industrial dispute.
We have a stable labour force with relatively low turnover.
Over half of our workforce have worked for the Group for over ten years and almost a third of the workforce for The Company has been a member of the over twenty years.
During the course of 2006 a total of 128 new employees joined the Group.
Kempen SNS Smaller Europe Index since October 2003, membership being available Employee Involvement The Group obtains great benets from the Group Wide Information only to companies with the very highest and Consultation Forums which continue to be run on a two-tier basis at Group and local levels.
In addition, regular meetings take place with standards and practice in the three areas the recognised Trade Unions where matters of common interest are of business ethics, human resources and discussed.
The Company is also a One recent example of employee participation is the survey carried out in 2006 with the Scottish ports operation on behavioural safety where 56% constituent member of the FTSE 4 Good of employees responded.
Training and Development Training of staff at all levels continues to be a priority for the Group.
In 2006 training was focused on the Grangemouth Container Terminal as the facility moved to an all-straddle carrier operation.
With the coming into force of the legislation on age discrimination, the Groups equal opportunities policy was reviewed for compliance and interactive workshops were held across the Group to ensure a high level of awareness of anti-discrimination legislation.
In addition external coaches delivered training and development courses for senior managers across the Group.
The Group Company Secretary presents regular updates to the Board and other Senior Management on legal and regulatory issues.
In the Scottish ports operation there were 521 courses 2005 366 run for 1,388 employees 2005 1,313 and in Tilbury there were 776 courses 2005 923 for 2,081 employees 2005 2,821.
The Group continues to support the attainment of National Vocational Qualications particularly Level 2 for Stevedoring.
The Group also operates a graduate training scheme and in 2006 we recruited a further four graduates.
This represents a significant investment by the Group and we are therefore pleased that a number of our current employees were successful participants in the graduate training scheme.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 27 Safer Ports Initiative Health and Safety Following the success of the Safer Ports Initiative in 2002, Safer Ports The health and safety of our employees and customers is a vital part of Initiative 2 was launched in May 2006.
The focus for SPI 2 is an integrated our business.
This culture of safety is underpinned by robust reporting approach to health, safety and skills through the central themes of: and management processes.
leadership Scottish Ports sensible risk management The Scottish ports operation held two safety away days in February and industry standards, qualications and training opportunities June 2006.
These were attended by both safety committee members and worker involvement members of senior management including the Group Chief Executive, the sharing good practice and partnership working Scottish Ports Director and a Health and Safety Executive Inspector, who delivered a keynote speech in February 2006.
As indicated last year the These key themes will form the basis for this years health and safety topics covered at the February conference included working at height and training, with the focus on behavioural safety.
In October 2006 the Scottish manual handling.
The June conference identied the following issues for ports operation carried out a survey of all employees on behavioural discussion at the away day in February 2007: safety.
Over half of the workforce responded to the survey and of those who responded 93% confirmed their commitment to the behavioural safety slips, trips and falls initiative.
The Company has appointed external consultants to assist us in linehandling developing our own behavioural safety programme and the Group will also working close to water review good practice from companies where behavioural safety workplace transport programmes have already been successfully implemented.
safety management in workshops Property We encourage our employees to take a proactive approach to health The property division has introduced fortnightly health and safety and safety and in 2006 the staff from the Port of Leith devised an airbag briengs and attendance is compulsory for all staff.
These briengs are fall arrest system for use on pipe vessels.
The Company agreed to also attended by the Group Company Secretary and this years topics commission a company called Airtec to produce working prototypes.
have included manual handling, re safety and the new Construction This has culminated in an order, initially for one system, for operation Design and Management Regulations which are due to come into in our Scottish ports.
Tilbury Awards Tilbury held its annual health and safety forum in February at the London Tilburys First Aid Team won the PSSL National First Aid Competition this Cruise Terminal which was attended by senior port management, health year and the Company was awarded its Fleetsure certicate from Lothian and safety representatives and the Managing Director of Port of Tilbury.
and Borders Police for safety procedures associated with the Companys The conference focussed on the continuing reduction in the accident vehicle eet.
rate at the port and the pro-active approach to continual improvement in health and safety.
Audits The Group continues to use a hierarchy of external and internal audits as Since 2004, Tilbury has engaged in a partnership development a means of measuring progress to improve our health and safety systems.
programme with the Transport and General Workers Union providing a Both the Scottish operation and Tilbury produce an annual Safety level of joint training in conjunction with London Metropolitan University Continual Improvement Plan which includes any recommendations as training provider.
Perry Glading, Managing Director, Port of Tilbury, continues to sit on Tilbury was awarded a maximum five star safety rating in 2005 following the Board of Port Skills and Safety Limited PSSL.
PSSL is the trade its first audit by the British Safety Council.
Tilbury will have a follow up association for the Port industry which has a wide remit to work with audit in June 2007, the target being to maintain the five star score and its subscribers and other stakeholders to encourage and promote high further improve on the percentage score achieved.
Last year we reported standards of health and safety in the port industry and a highly skilled that the Scottish ports target for 2006 was to improve its three star rating workforce.
PSSL has been and continues to be closely involved in the to a four star rating.
We are pleased to confirm that this target was met in implementation of Safer Ports Initiative 2.
The next target is to achieve a five star safety rating by November 2007.
28 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Personnel Transport As part of the continual drive to improve safety, we have appointed a new We continue to promote the movement of goods via shipping.
For example, Group Health and Safety Manager, who will begin work in early 2007, this year a major Scottish construction company shipped 1,500 tonnes of focussing on high level strategy and ensuring consistency of approach material from Grangemouth to Wick to the site of a new superstore, saving across the Group.
Two additional eld safety ofcers have been recruited 75 lorry journeys, each round trip being approximately 520 miles.
Tilbury is into the Scottish ports operation and one of the graduates who completed positioning itself as a construction hub for projects in the Thames Gateway our graduate training scheme in 2006 has been recruited to assist the and in the run up to the Olympic Games in 2012. health and safety department in Tilbury.
For goods entering or leaving our ports from the land side, where rail facilities are available, we encourage their use.
Examples of this are the Accident Statistics movement of containers to and from Grangemouth and the movement of Group Group % coal from Leith to Cockenzie for Scottish Power.
In the latter case, a further 2006 2005 change 1.5 million tonnes of coal was moved by rail in 2006, saving sixty thousand lorry movements.
The cumulative saving since the contract commenced is Reportable: 3 day lost time accidents excluding Major 28 32 -13 now eighty thousand lorry movements.
Reportable: Major accidents 4 2 100 Forth Ports is part of a group which includes SESTRANS and Fife and Total number of reportable incidents Edinburgh Councils which is undertaking the first phase of a feasibility includes 3 day lost time and study into a cross-Forth ferry between Fife and Edinburgh.
Such a crossing major injuries 32 34 -6 would ease trafc volumes on the Forth Road Bridge and create a more sustainable mode of transport than reliance on cars on the increasingly Total number of accidents congested Fife Edinburgh road system.
Hyder Consulting were appointed all personal injury and all reportable 158 189 -16 in September of last year to carry out the study and their report is expected this month.
The Board set the target of reducing reportable accidents of greater than 3 days lost time and major injuries by 5% during 2005.
This target has Our property division is reviewing the feasibility of construction materials been exceeded for all personal injury classes with the exception of major for Western Harbour, Granton and the LDDF being brought in by ship.
This was disappointing, and will be a focus of attention in 2007.
The team is also working closely with the tram company, tie, to examine the opportunities for tram construction materials to be delivered by ship.
Environmental Issues The main potential environmental impact from our Group operations During 2006 the Group changed its policy in relation to the replacement are those associated with noise, dust, water pollution and air quality of company cars extending the lease period from three to four years thus and conservation.
The Group is committed to managing both its ports reducing the demand for new vehicles for our staff by between a quarter and regeneration activities so as to limit any adverse effects to the and a fifth.
Energy Each port liaises with tenants, customers, regulators and other key We have a number of renewables initiatives under review across the Group.
These meetings communicate information on environmental issues, initiatives and many legislative changes along with updates on port In November 2006, a planning consent was granted for the building of development and safety initiatives.
Our property division is also committed a bio-diesel crushing facility at Rosyth, the by-product from which can to delivering sustainable development across all of its sites.
be used to generate energy.
Tilbury has also received enquiries from a number of parties interested in renewable energy generation.
These The Group has appointed The Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management include windpower, bio-diesel and bio-ethanol.
Any proposal would to calculate its carbon footprint and advise on options to improve the include consideration of the opportunities for the port to purchase sustainability of our energy management, particularly in relation to green some or all of its energy requirements from an on-site renewable house gas emissions.
The analysis, which is primarily desk based, will source.
The Scottish ports operation is also investigating the feasibility cover all energy used and, where appropriate, generated by our activities of the development of wind turbines and have appointed a consultant including transport, our cooling and heating systems and waste.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 29 We reported last year that one of the sustainability targets for the Groups We also reported last year that further recycling initiatives were property developments was the investigation of on-site renewable energy examined across the Group in 2006.
Tenders have been received for generation.
Good progress has been made with tenders being issued for a Grangemouth recycling initiative which will cover most of the waste two projects at Western Harbour requiring the completed developments generated by our administrative functions across the Grangemouth to be carbon neutral.
site including non-condential paper, cardboard, cans and plastics.
If deemed successful, this initiative will be extended across other ports.
As previously reported during 2005 we utilised funding from the Carbon At present the Grangemouth forest products terminal sends between Trust http: www.
uk carbontrust to appoint a consultant 10 and 15 pallets of paper for recycling each week.
to undertake energy efficiency surveys at two of our ports, Rosyth and Dundee.
These surveys highlighted a number of areas where minor capital As part of a review of craneage at Port of Leith a number of redundant investment could have an impact on our energy use and several of these cranes were decommissioned and recycled.
Our property division is committed to working with Edinburgh Council Grangemouth has also upgraded 400m of road lighting to more energy with a view to our developments achieving agreed targets for recycling and efficient lighting and a number of buildings have had lighting adjusted recovery of municipal waste and reducing disposal to landll.
A multiuser or replaced to improve efficiency.
Examples of the major works in 2006 facility Forthside L. C. was established at Western Harbour in October 3 were improvements to the high voltage electricity distribution network by 2006 and since then has received 48,081m of material from other sites upgrading switchgear and major works to the impounding pump culvert in Edinburgh for reprocessing and use in the Groups developments.
at Grangemouth which has substantially reduced the energy use by increasing the efficiency of the ow rate and reducing water leakage.
Environmental Management Last year we reported that the Finnish Terminal at the Port of Tilbury was Waste the first of the Groups operations to receive ISO 14001:2004, ten months Each port has a waste management plan which has been approved by ahead of schedule and that the UPM Wood Shed and Short Sea Container the MCA.
As part of our waste strategy, we monitor all waste removed Terminal also obtained this accreditation.
Our target for 2006 was for the from our ports and we comply with all port waste management regulations Enterprise Distribution Centre to receive certication and we are pleased to which require ships to report the volumes of waste that they intend to report this target was achieved on schedule in October 2006.
The Port of deposit at the port and then confirm volumes of waste actually deposited.
Tilbury continues to push forward with its challenging accreditation targets, Annual waste gures are supplied to the MCA and all records are with the aim of the Conventional asset area receiving accreditation during maintained to allow for MCA inspection.
During a routine audit by the 2007 and the Grain and Bulks Division in 2008.
This will ensure all asset State Veterinary Service in 2006, they suggested that pictograms would areas in Tilbury are covered by our externally veried ISO 14001:2004 be useful on the international catering waste skips in Port of Leith: these environmental management system.
have been produced and afxed to the skips.
If this approach results in an improvement in the waste separation in Leith the process will be rolled During 2005, the Scottish operations participated in the Ecoports Self out to the other Scottish Ports.
ESDM is a port industry audit of how a port deals with environmental issues from the corporate level to operations.
Volumes of dredged spoil are reported in our Statutory Harbour Authority It consists of a questionnaire, which is then assessed by the Ecoports Annual Environmental Report, which is available upon request.
Following the completion of the report by Ecoports, an action plan has been devised to produce an integrated environmental Recycling management system for the Scottish port operations.
The first phase of the action plan is to identify the environmental risks associated with each Substantial volumes of wood and metal waste are recycled across the operational unit.
It is anticipated that this action plan will take a number ports through wood merchants and scrap metal companies: oily wastes of years to complete.
In addition, the revising of the Port Marine Safety and oil lters are recovered at each of the workshops in the ports, though Code during 2006 included a review of all policies and the creation of the remaining uncertainty of markets for recovered oil and the current a new Marine Environmental Policy.
This is reproduced in the Statutory uncertainty of the classication of the recovered product pending the Harbour Authority Environmental Report.
outcome of the court cases between the environmental regulators and the oil reprocessors could impact on the costs associated with this in 2007.
The movement from a tug and mover to straddle carrier operation in the Last year we reported that a new recycling scheme had been initiated Container Terminal at Grangemouth and the commissioning of two new throughout the Port of Tilbury.
During 2006 this scheme has been rened container cranes has improved efficiency considerably.
The equipment to improve the separation of materials.
We have received conrmation produces substantially less emissions and has a much reduced from the company which manages our condential waste paper shredding operational requirement for oils.
that in 2006 we saved 89 trees, which is a substantial increase on last years 73.
30 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Pollution Avoidance and Control Security At our ports we handle many different types of cargo, some of which All of our ports remain compliant with the Port Facility Security Code.
have the potential to cause damage to the environment if care is not taken.
Those responsible for security both in Tilbury and Scotland have regular Oil is handled at most of our ports as a commodity.
Even where it is not, dialogue with the Department for Transport Security Directorate outside the vessels calling at our ports carry oils for fuel and lubrication, as a result the formal audit and compliance process.
At present we are assessing the each port has an oil spill contingency plan as required by law.
In the implications of the European Port Security Directive and the policies that Firth of Forth, all of the individual oil spill plans each facility has its own the Department for Transport intends to implement to ensure its adoption.
are linked through a strategic framework plan called Clearwater Forth CF.
Each year there are regular exercises with at least one major Community Responsibility exercise undertaken in the Forth Estuary to ensure that each of the parties which has emergency response obligations under CF is fully and Involvement aware of its responsibilities and will be able to respond rapidly and effectively should the need arise.
Ports Operations As Competent Harbour Authority in the Forth and Tay and as a Our purpose-built Marine Emergency Centre MEC at Grangemouth major port operator on the Thames, we believe that it is important allows trained pollution control staff to work in a state of the art facility that we are members of, and remain committed to, the Forth Estuary allowing them to control the response to any incident, whilst monitoring Forum, www.
co. uk, the Tay Estuary Forum the marine VHF and viewing the vessel trafc in the Firth of Forth.
uk crsem TEF and the Thames Estuary Partnership www.
The aim of these organisations is to promote the In 2006 the CF exercise was called Black Wednesday and was a wise and sustainable use of the Forth, Tay and Thames.
The MEC was fully operational and the exercise included includes the provision of membership fees and support through the representatives from Forth Ports, BP, Scottish Environmental Protection donation of management time and ofce accommodation.
The Company Agency, Scottish Natural Heritage, East Lothian Council and other is the second largest contributor to the core costs of the Forth Estuary agencies.
Regular liaison took place by telephone with Local Authorities, Forum.
environmental organisations and people role-playing community members and local businesses.
This years exercise was also attended by Robin The Port of Tilbury continues to be the only business partner in the Middleton the Secretary of States Representative SOSREP.
SOSREP Academy of Logistics and Transport, assisting with the development has very wide powers under the Marine Safety Act 2003 in relation to of new courses and qualications.
This theme is continued through marine accidents, including the power to issue directions and this years involvement in the Thurrock Learning Partnership and involvement in exercise included a half day workshop chaired by Robin Middleton on his the Young Enterprise scheme for local schools.
Tilbury also accepts role and responsibilities.
Following the exercise there was a mock-media school and college students on 1-3 week placements for work experience.
brieng, which included both real and role-playing journalists from Tilbury has strong links with local schools, in particular for careers days newspapers, radio and television.
After each exercise a report is produced and CV and interview sessions.
All of the ports also have connections to and circulated to all participants highlighting lessons learnt so that each of universities locally and internationally.
Over the past year, we have given the participants can review their procedures.
presentations to many groups and organisations, including schools, universities, yacht clubs and local authorities.
In addition each port maintains an individual emergency plan.
The Port of Tilbury undertook a full review and re-issue of their Emergency Plan As part of implementation of the Water Framework Directive, Forth Ports as during 2006. competent harbour authority sits on the Forth River Basin Area Advisory Group.
This group is tasked with working towards the preparation of the As a responsible landlord, we seek to facilitate long-term customer first River Basin Management Plan for Scotland under the Directive.
SEPA relationships by leasing surplus port property assets to key port users.
continues to utilise one of our buoys for water quality monitoring in the We take a rm and pro-active approach towards ensuring that our tenants Forth and discussions have started in relation to a similar monitor on undertake comprehensive site investigations and, if necessary, address one of our buoys in the Tay.
any consequent land remediation works required prior to vacating the property in order to comply with environmental protection legislation.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 31 Aims of the Group It is the aim of the Group to ensure that all When equipment, plant, stores and supplies are When hiring contractors, the following must be operations consider their impact upon and purchased, the following are considered: checked: interface with: the health, wellbeing and safety of employees the contractor is suitably qualied to the health, wellbeing and safety of who may use or be exposed to the product undertake the works employees their potential to impact upon the the contractor has been through all the environment environment through usage whether appropriate induction processes to work on the local community appropriate or inappropriate the site and has the appropriate permits the business environment whether the product has to be stored in the contractor holds appropriate insurance particular circumstances and if so how cover In fullling the above, all activities should be, at safely is it stored a minimum, fully compliant with all relevant whether usage or storage of the product This sets the corporate ethos towards legislation and in accordance with all Group requires extra training for employees compliance and corporate social responsibility policies and procedures.
Tilbury was a nalist in the Thurrock Business Awards this year.
The Port of The Company is also a member of the WDPB, a public private Dundee sponsored the International Trade section of the Scottish Enterprise partnership among the developers along the Waterfront, Scottish Business Awards, which was, by coincidence, won by a Tayside company.
Enterprise Edinburgh and Lothian SEEL and CEC.
The Partnership met for the first time in June 2006 and is committed to ensuring The Port of Dundee has made an in kind contribution to both the North there is a coherent strategy for the development of the Waterfront Carr and Unicorn historic vessels berthed in Victoria Dock, Dundee.
as a whole and to maximising the economic opportunities arising from A number of charities have received donations from fund raising events the development.
The Company is also a member of the Waterfront that have been run by port employees.
These include Macmillan Cancer Accord Initiative working with CEC, SEEL and local training bodies to Care and Birth Tay an assisted conception unit at Ninewells Hospital.
maximise training and employment opportunities from the activities on The Company has also agreed to sponsor a page on Water Safety in a the Waterfront.
workbook created by an organisation called the Risk Factory.
The Risk Factory is a partnership between a number of local authorities working We are also committed to consultation with the community in relation to with 7,000 Primary 7 children to increase their awareness of the risks our developments.
Extensive consultation was carried out during 2006 in which they may nd themselves subject to in their everyday lives.
relation to the LDDF and the approach taken by the property division has been reported to the CEC Planning Committee as an example of good practice.
Regeneration While part of our long-term goal is to transform Leith into an internationally Management Involvement recognised waterfront which will be an asset to both Leith and the city of Edinburgh as a whole, we believe that two of the key drivers for building Members of the management team hold a variety of posts in organisations sustainable communities are social and economic regeneration.
The whose aim is to improve the community and the environmental and activities which the Group has been involved in this year have not only economic health of the areas in which our business operates: improved the public spaces in and around our developments, but also encouraged visitors to the Waterfront and strengthened our links with the Charles Hammond the Group Chief Executive is also the Chairman communities who live here.
of SEEL, the organisation responsible for promoting sustainable economic development across Edinburgh and the Lothians and an significant investment was made in improving public areas, notably advisory member of the board of Scottish Enterprise.
He also sits on around Prince of Wales Dock where a picnic and seating area has the Board of the Waterfront Development Partnership Board together been created, at Western Harbour where a wild ower meadow has with Nathan Thompson, the Managing Director of the Property Division.
been seeded and in the open area opposite Ocean Terminal where a Derek McGlashan, the Security and Environment Manager, is a Director running track has been laid.
Further improvements are planned this of the Forth Estuary Forum and an Honorary Research Fellow in the year with work commencing on Western Harbour Park and Lighthouse Department of Geography at the University of Dundee.
Park and a lighting project for Victoria Dock Swing Bridge.
It is also Perry Glading, the Managing Director, Port of Tilbury, is the Chairman hoped to install fountains in Victoria Dock in front of the Scottish of the Academy of Transport and Logistics for Thurrock and Thames Executive building during 2007.
The first Edinburgh Forthside Half Marathon and the Edinburgh Morag McNeill, Group Company Secretary and Malcolm Butchert, Forthside Family Fun Run took place on 26th March 2006 and over Project Manager, Property Division are members of the Waterfront 5,000 spectators came down to the Waterfront to watch the runners.
Recruitment Initiative and Morag McNeill sits on the Waterfront Forth Ports nominated charities for the event were Childrens Hospice Employment Delivery Group chaired by Councillor Elizabeth Maginnis.
Association Scotland and the Junction Leith.
In all, the event raised thousands of pounds for the nominated charities.
Forth Ports has agreed to sponsor the event for a second year and this will take place on 1st April 2007.
Ocean Terminal and Edinburgh Forthside were also sponsors of the Edinburgh CowParade.
The CowParade is one of the worlds largest public art events.
Cows are decorated by local artists and members of the public and are displayed around the streets of the sponsoring city.
The cows are then auctioned for charity.
The Edinburgh event was launched by the Lord Provost at the new Leith Cruise Liner Terminal.
Sixty two cows were selected for the auction which took place in September 2006 and 252,200 was raised.
One of the cows was purchased by Ocean Terminal Limited and is on display there.
