ALFRED McALPINE PLC 18 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility reporting The management of our CR programmes CR programme This report provides a summary of reflects this increased sophistication, with Our five critical areas for Corporate developments in our Corporate Responsibility goals being selected following an analysis Responsibility are: programme during 2006 and sets out our of the appropriate stakeholder needs and key objectives for 2007. programmes being developed to support Health and Safety the achievement of these goals.
Workforce The complete 2006 Corporate Responsibility Environment Report sets out our CR vision in more detail, Governance Supply chain gives a full report on our progress against HSE and Corporate Responsibility is a standing Community objectives in 2006 and targets set for 2007 item on the agendas of the Board of Directors and provides some examples of the work we and the Group Executive Committee.
HSE Health and safety have done.
The full report is available on our risks are also considered by the Corporate We promote a safety culture and made website at www.
com cr06 Risk Committee and, at Business Stream level, a considerable achievement in this area at the Business Stream board meetings.
Further The full 2006 CR Report is web-based only information on our approach to safety can in line with our policy to reduce the resources Ian Grice, Group Chief Executive, is the be found in the Sustainable Business section we utilise and minimise waste.
Board Director who takes responsibility of the Group Chief Executives Business Review for Corporate Responsibility.
Our commitment Corporate Responsibility team reports to the Our vision is to build a long-term sustainable Group Chief Executive and is tasked with Our approach to our workforce business.
We aim to manage the risks we are monitoring and improving the health, safety Employees who are skilled, motivated and exposed to in terms of health and safety and and environmental performance of the Group.
Further information the environment HSE.
We want people to on our employee policies can be found in the join our Company because they will be proud Independent assurance of our corporate People section of the Group Chief Executives that we act in a responsible way.
We strive responsibility programme and of the full Business Review on pages 14 to 16. to minimise the impact we have on the on-line CR Report is provided by csrnetwork.
environment and to enhance the lives of Impact on the environment the people in the communities affected by Our corporate governance framework Over 2006 our Group Standards for our business.
is explained in the report on Corporate Environmental Management were reviewed Governance on pages 24 to 29. and further enhanced through the We have defined Corporate Responsibility implementation of a Group-wide consistent as our commitment to the positive impact approach to environmental incident reporting, that our business, through our people, can the requirement for all businesses to report on make on society.
That definition remains as CO emissions and waste production and the 2 true today as it did when we first formulated implementation of CO emissions and waste 2 our CR strategy.
The Group HSE audit process was reviewed and revised over 2006 We continue to evolve our approach towards and a number of pilot audits were undertaken.
being a responsible business and throughout An enhanced audit programme will be 2006 focused on activities where we felt introduced in 2007.
All of our businesses we were best placed to make a significant retained their ISO 14001: 2004 certification contribution to the communities within status over 2006. which we operate.
ALFRED McALPINE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 200619 During 2006, we continued to collect In 2007, we propose to work with our top Other achievements and collate environmental data across all five suppliers in order to consider the During 2006, we retained our membership of our businesses.
Within Project Services, possibility of developing and implementing of the FTSE4Good Index, and as part of the Infrastructure Services and Slate we were joint CR-based programmes and activities.
CR reporting community we have provided able to collect data from all contracts.
Within information for the EIRIS Ethical Investment Business Services data collection is complex We have begun to examine the areas of Research and Information Service Annual due to the nature of the work we undertake product stewardship and how we can reduce Social, Governance and Environmental Surveys.
and therefore only sample data was collected our impact on the environment through the during 2006.
The data collection programme use of sustainable resources.
Demonstrating Having entered the Business in the Community will be further rolled out across the Group this commitment, one of the Group Chief BITC Corporate Responsibility Index for the over the course of 2007.
Executives Annual CR Awards was won by first time in 2005, we were delighted in 2006 a team which achieved certification under the to be listed as one of the most improved All of our environmental data collected Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody companies participating and again to be over 2006 may be viewed at Scheme for timber usage.
This is an area we placed in the Top 100.
We were also delighted www.
com cr06 will be extending further.
that our Project Services business was awarded a BITC Big Tick Award in 2006 for their Working with our supply chain partners Community ongoing commitment to sub-contractor We seek to build enduring relationships Over 2006, our businesses continued to environmental training.
with our supply chain partners that deliver support a wide variety of community and value to our clients and improve our charity initiatives.
As an organisation we In addition, we became full members business performance.
We foster long-term have been supporting community projects of BITC at the end of 2006. relationships with our clients, suppliers for many years.
Our community initiative and other business partners.
We measure has flourished since it was formally launched We were pleased to launch our Group customer satisfaction through customer in 2003, with a significant number of small Chief Executives Annual CR Awards in 2006. surveys to capture feed back.
We build and large projects being supported across all Awards were presented in each of our five effective relationships with suppliers.
The community initiatives critical CR areas in April 2007 and included supported in 2006 ranged from undertaking a financial contribution to the winning contract Work with our supply chain partners continued health and safety presentations to primary or individual plus a financial contribution to across all businesses throughout 2006. schools, supporting local school football teams, a charity of the winners choice.
We continue to assess our sub-contractors small scale environmental projects, such as the and suppliers in terms of performance, regeneration of a wildlife trust area and the As a FTSE 250 company and a major employer predominately with regard to HSE although landscaping of a small primary school garden.
in the UK, we recognise our responsibilities this has developed to incorporate wider as a corporate citizen and our need to respect CR issues in some parts of the Group during the principles of sustainable development.
We continue to develop tools to assess performance against client requirements Our CR Report 2006 reflects our performance and client satisfaction: this will be ongoing and, more importantly, shows our progress into 2007. towards our commitment to the sustainable success of our business that will allow us long-term profitable growth.
