qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:11 Page 30 Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Building a sustainable future The CSR Committee We take our duty to behave as a responsible company very seriously and to ensure we meet this Christine Cross Chair, pictured: commitment we have continued to enhance our CSR practices and processes during the year.
We Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde: constantly appraise new challenges in the market place and recognise the challenges of building Steve Parker and Ian Sutcliffe.
James sustainable communities as well as responding to the increasing threat of climate change.
As a member Jordan also attends meetings of the of the CBIs new Climate Change Task Force, we will be helping to set the agenda for businesses to tackle Committee.
We are committed to working towards meeting the UK Governments targets for all new homes in the UK to be zero carbon rated by 2016.
Our priority will be to respond to CSR challenges in a way that makes sound business sense for our Company.
CSR management Responsibility for CSR within our Group rests with the CSR Committee and the Board.
The CSR Committee CSR management system is chaired by Non Executive Director Christine Cross and includes our UK Managing Director and the Following implementation, our President of Morrison Homes and is tasked with ensuring that CSR strategy and activity is adequately CSR policies are monitored and resourced, has appropriate standing within the Group and is aligned to the needs of our business.
reviewed in order to continuously Ethics and governance underpin everything we do and determine our approach to CSR.
We acknowledge improve our approach to CSR strategy and performance.
the vital importance of identifying financial and non-financial risks and opportunities for our business and have set out our financial and non-financial KPIs on pages 20 and 21 and our 2006 CSR report includes 26 KPIs that measure our annual CSR progress.
Develop strategies 2006 CSR highlights and policies We made strong progress in each of our six key areas of focus for CSR and George Wimpey Plc was Implement included by Innovest Strategic Value Advisors and Corporate Knights in the 2007 list of the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations.
Measure and monitor Health and Safety We take the health and safety of our employees and sub-contractors extremely seriously and have Report extensive procedures in place to minimise the risk to those working on or visiting our sites.
Seek internal and We reduced total UK accidents by 21% and major UK accidents by 54%.
Falls from height reduced to external feedback 3% of UK accidents compared with an industry average of 28%.
This is a crucial area of focus as falls from Identify risks and height are the most significant cause of workplace injuries and fatalities in the construction industry.
opportunities In the US the Tampa Bay Safety Alliance, started and facilitated by Morrison Homes, helped to improve Review approach housebuilder and trade partner safety standards in the region.
By the end of 2006, the Alliance had nearly and performance 30 members including trade partners and seven of the ten largest housebuilders in the area.
30 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review WP100 p30-31 vAW1 tp.
qxp:Layout 1 6 3 07 13:11 Page 31 Environment UK Housing KPI Environmental issues continue to rise ever higher up the Government and public agenda and our UK health and safety incident rate environmental performance is essential to sustaining the future success of our business.
8 George Wimpey UK continues to be the only publicly listed housebuilder with ISO14001:2004 certification for all operations.
6 Supply Chain Management Our approach to managing the supply chain takes into account the importance of environmental issues and our commitment to building long term relationships with sub-contractors and suppliers, treating 4 them fairly and paying them promptly.
During 2006, we recruited Peter Williams as Head of Procurement for George Wimpey UK and Jeff 2 Allgood as Director of Purchasing for Morrison Homes.
George Wimpey UK now has a major five year supply chain management strategy.
0 2004 2005 2006 Environmental and sustainability objectives are a key part of the new UK supply chain management strategy.
In 2007, we will review our existing Green Procurement Policy and how we deliver this through the supply chain.
Building Sustainable Communities US Housing KPI We remain committed to building sustainable communities.
They play a major role in reducing the negative effects and increasing the positive impacts of housebuilding.
Our developments can help to US health and safety incident rate provide well-designed and affordable homes for first time buyers and key workers, regenerate the local 8 area turning contaminated or run-down land into thriving community spaces protecting and enhancing the local environment.
In the UK the Section 106 agreements we enter into with local planning authorities provide a wide range 6 of infrastructure and services to the local communities where we are building.
In 2006 we contributed 24.4 million via Section 106 agreements in the form of public transport contributions, new footpaths 4 and cycleways, educational and healthcare facilities, public art commisions and improvements to public open spaces.
2 We have a strong track record for fundraising and charitable involvement and this year we donated 469,661 to charities in the UK and US.
0 Employees 2004 2005 2006 Our business success depends on the quality of our employees.
We aim to attract and retain the best employees in the UK and US housebuilding industry.
We are committed to treating them fairly, developing their potential and providing a positive working environment.
We are committed to local employment and we recruit predominantly from the areas around our offices UK and US KPI and sites.
We also seek to play a part in addressing skills shortages in our industry.
In the UK in 2006 we took on an additional 141 apprentices, 42 management trainees and six graduates 73% of our UK employees are proud to work for George Wimpey.
UK 88% Customer Care Providing exceptional customer service strengthens our brands and sets us apart from our competitors.
We aim to lead the UK and US industries with our standards of customer care.
US 86% George Wimpey UK was the highest ranked volume housebuilder in the Home Builders Federation National Customer Satisfaction Survey.
Percentage of UK and US customers who would recommend us to friends 88% of UK customers and 86% of our US customers would recommend us to their family or friends.
and family Going forward George Wimpey Plc is dedicated to being a responsible company and we are proud of the progress the Company has made.
We endeavour to be responsive to the challenges of sustainability whilst ensuring our approach to CSR makes good business sense.
