CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our actions can have an impact on a wide range promote improvements in the way we run our of stakeholders, from customers to suppliers, business, in accordance with best practice.
employees to end consumers, and distributors to local communities, as well as to our shareholders.
We have obtained in respect of our Bury St We therefore continue to recognise the need to Edmunds site a licence under the Integrated respect the social, economic and environmental Pollution, Prevention and Control IPPC wellbeing of the world around us.
legislation operated by the Environment Agency.
The aim is to reduce emissions and waste and, Promoting beer responsibly where possible, prevent them entirely.
A number We believe strongly in the need to promote our of improvements will be made, with the beers in a responsible fashion.
Campaigns such Environment Agency due to audit our progress.
as 'Beer with Food Week', in which many of our pubs participate, and our Beer To Dine For Our CO emissions for our Bury St Edmunds 2 campaign celebrate real beer by promoting its brewing operations are covered by a climate taste and flavour as opposed to its bulk change agreement under the British Beer and consumption.
We are a key supporter of the Pubs Association's umbrella agreement.
In 'Proud of Pubs' campaign launched by The 2005 6 our CO emissions were 3% less than the 2 Publican trade magazine, in which pubs pledge target set out in the climate change agreement, as not to serve underage drinkers or anyone who is a result of both reduced and improved energy drunk, to support local communities and respect usage.
At the Belhaven brewery in Scotland local residents and businesses.
In Scotland, energy efficiency is high on the agenda and the where various licensing bodies have introduced use of a combined heat and power system specific measures to combat irresponsible generates the lions share of our requirements.
retailing, these have all been complied with.
At a time when production of beer was increasing, We continue to comply with the Portman Groups we improved water consumption per volume of code of practice on advertising and packaging of beer produced at our Bury St Edmunds brewery alcoholic drinks, and the British Beer and Pub from 10.1HL HL in 2003 to 8.1 HL.
HL in 2005 - a Associations code on drinks promotions.
Efforts to reduce this further still marketing materials are not designed to appeal to are on-going.
In Belhaven our close relationship under 18s and none of our brand advertising with Scottish Water ensures that the use of our onfocuses on the alcoholic strength of the beer, site well water for process and subsequent suggests any association with bravado or effluent discharge meets regulatory standards.
aggressive behaviour nor implies that consumption can lead to social or sexual success.
In Bury St Edmunds effluent is not discharged directly to watercourses, but rather into the Our managed pubs operate a proof-of-age public sewer under consent from the local water scheme, support the 'Challenge 21' initiative and treatment company.
Effluent is monitored and track attempts by under-age drinkers to order procedures and equipment are in place to alcoholic drinks: they do not offer all you can minimise and contain any possible spillages to the drink promotions nor heavily discounted prices.
ground or storm drain around our production Our soft drinks continue to be reasonably priced areas.
in order to offer alternatives to alcohol.
The installation of our own bottling line at Old Environment Speckled Hen Hall, on the outskirts of Bury St As well as complying with relevant environmental Edmunds, will remove over 200,000 road miles laws, we also endeavour to actively limit any by tankers to other bottling companies across the adverse effect that our business may have on the UK, benefiting the environment through less environment.
We are constantly looking to pollution from fuel emissions.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 19 We celebrate real beer by promoting its taste and flavour as opposed to its bulk consumption GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In relation to waste, production waste materials contribution pension scheme and there is a are, wherever possible, used in an environmentally scheme for additional voluntary contributions for friendly manner.
In 2005 over 12,000 tonnes of those who wish to contribute.
spent grain from our brewing process was sold as animal feed, whilst over 1,000 tonnes of surplus With best quality customer service being a key yeast slurry was also converted to animal feed or priority, we focus closely on the training of all sold to the makers of Marmite.
At the same time we recycling continue to be investigated.
Recycling of need to ensure that our staff are safe and have office waste during the year collected 50 tonnes installed a new security system, including CCTV for recycling that would otherwise have gone to and a central monitoring system, to over 150 pubs.
This report and accounts has been printed Employees participate in staff awareness on environmentally friendly paper, in an initiative programmes on how to deal with aggressive designed to save nearly 40 tonnes of landfill.
behaviour and security training is an integral part of our comprehensive induction programme for new A number of environmentally friendly measures managers.
67% of our managed pubs participate in have been successfully trialled in our managed the local Pub Watch scheme, an initiative designed houses, including the use of low energy light to promote a safer environment for people to work bulbs and the installation of additional meters, and socialise in.
We also look to support our house boiler regulators and air conditioning controllers managers in other ways, and are currently to record, and reduce, energy consumption.
We surveying the accommodation available for them, are working with trade bodies such as Hospitality with a view to upgrading where necessary.
Climates and the Carbon Trust to ensure that we keep up to date with developments in energy Tenants saving devices and to help with staff education.
With over 1,300 licensees, it is essential that we provide them with the best possible support to We continue to look after the flood meadows in help them succeed with their businesses.
We Bury St Edmunds and have seen a huge increase were the first company to introduce the concept of in the population of water voles as a result of our open book accounting for our new tenants, which conservation efforts.
means that we can help them recognise early on if there are issues and offer appropriate support.
We Employees charge commercial market rents, raised annually in The passion, dedication, and hard work of our line with RPI and with rent reviews carried out employees have been a major factor in our success, every five years as we believe there should be a fair and we recognise the importance of recruiting and division of the economic profit in our tenanted retaining the best.
We believe in providing equal houses.
Our longer lease agreements include opportunities for all, the best possible training and provisions for the calculation of rent on a fair support and as much information as possible on the maintainable turnover basis and the code of company's performance.
We have just introduced practice we follow ensures that any agreements a set of common values which apply to all with our licensees are transparent to them.
employees, from senior managers to bar staff, and use employee attitude surveys to benchmark and During the past year over 1,500 licensees have improve our management.
been on courses provided by Pub Partners, on subject ranging from finance, marketing and Many of our employees have benefited from the cellar management to health and safety and range of employee share schemes on offer, security.
Our share and save programme provides including a sharesave scheme open to all and a real benefits to our tenants in areas such as profit-sharing scheme open to employees with electricity, food, credit card machines and the requisite qualifying service.
We offer one of the best if not the access to a  defined best support packages in the industry.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2005 06 21 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Anti  measures Health and safety We believe in equal opportunities for disabled The health and safety of our employees and customers and are working to improve our facilities customers is of paramount importance to us.
Independent audits have been carried out management is conducted in accordance with across the pub estate to determine action on models suggested by the Health and Safety access and other issues.
All our managed houses Executive and includes the use of detailed risk have doorbells and signs indicating that staff will assessments, which are audited to ensure help people with disabilities to gain entry, where compliance.
Managed houses are subject to a the installation of ramps has not proved feasible.
detailed health and safety and food safety audit at Pub managers have been trained on inclusion to least every six months.
Electrical installations in all help improve the hospitality we provide to people properties are regularly inspected and thatched with disabilities.
properties are subject to regular fire assessments.
Our tenants have also been provided with all the Charities information needed to comply with the Disability It is difficult to quantify the amount of money raised Discrimination Act and many have put in place by our pubs for charity but we would estimate it to positive measures for the benefit of disabled be well in excess of 0.5m.
employees and licensees in their efforts to help good causes, be they local or national charities, sometimes with a donation of prizes and sometimes with additional funds.
Employees have the ability to donate to charity via payroll giving.
