CORPORATE Be aware of and consider For our SHAREHOLDERS: We are environmental issues in the committed to reporting in a timely, AND SOCIAL communities where our operations are reliable and regular way, providing clear RESPONSIBILITY located: information on our business and its Encourage employee participation performance.
We conduct our operations Employment Policy in environmental projects, such as in accordance with generally accepted Gyrus believes its greatest asset is its recycling, waste reduction and principles and rules of good corporate employees and its policies are therefore energy conservation: for example governance and specifically in directed to creating an environment that encouraging telephone and video accordance with the listing rules of will attract, develop and retain conferencing to curb emissions the Financial Services Authority.
from corporate travel: Key features of the Group employment encouraging use of electronic For our PATIENTS: Gyruss products policies and practices are:- communications in place of improve the quality of life for patients Equal opportunity through a policy paper usage.
around the world by reducing hospital of non-discrimination irrespective of stays and allowing a quicker return to colour, national or ethnic origin, religion, We routinely monitor, assess and amend normal activities.
sex, disability or marital status.
this policy to ensure it is relevant and Career and personal development appropriate to the environment within For our BUSINESS PARTNERS: Gyrus through appraisal programmes and which we live and work.
believes that working with our suppliers the provision of appropriate training.
in a spirit of partnership is the best way Employee participation in the Health & Safety Policy to meet our objectives and we encourage performance and growth of the Gyrus regards the promotion of open and ethical relationships with Company through performance related health and safety as an essential our suppliers.
bonuses, employee share schemes and part of management and employer long term incentive plans.
It believes in continuous For our COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY: schemes are in operation for all UK improvement as a basis for its approach Gyrus sees contribution to the based employees and will be extended to these areas.
Gyrus is committed to communities in which we work as to US based employees during 2007. complying with applicable health and a fundamental part of our social The Groups policy is to provide safety laws and regulations wherever responsibility to the communities in equal employment opportunity to it operates.
which we are located and to society disabled people by giving full and in general.
We strive to be a good fair consideration to applications Each Gyrus location has a Health & corporate citizen by being an active for employment and continuing Safety Committee with representatives member of each community in which employment, wherever possible, of from across the business participating a Group Company is located and by employees who become disabled and in ensuring that good practices are encouraging and supporting employees providing suitable opportunities for adopted and implemented.
their training, career development and promotion.
Business Ethics The Gyrus Group is committed to, and Environmental policy at Gyrus expects all of its employees at all times Gyrus believes in protecting the to maintain, the highest standards of environment.
When developing products business and personal integrity in all and manufacturing processes, every effort aspects of its operations.
We respect is made to try to ensure that any adverse the law in the countries and communities effects on the environment are minimised.
where we operate and accept and uphold We endeavour to use renewable the principles contained in the United resources wherever possible.
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Gyruss objective is to achieve ISO 14001 certification with respect to environmental Social Responsibility policy.
The Gyrus Group is committed to conducting all aspects of its business Gyruss policy is to: in a socially responsible way.
We adopt Comply with applicable environmental this ethos in all interactions with our laws and regulations wherever it key stakeholders our customers, operates: shareholders, our employees, our Encourage understanding of business partners, the communities environmental issues in general, and in which we operate and society particularly as they relate to the medical in general.
device and healthcare industry: Identify, encourage awareness of, Specifically: and include wherever relevant, For our CUSTOMERS: We are environmental issues in all aspects of committed to providing innovative, costdecision making within the Group: effective, procedure-enabling products Develop an ethos of continuous that help physicians around the world improvement in each operation improve the quality of life for their to reduce the environmental impact patients.
To deliver this we maintain a of Gyruss products and processes significant investment in research and on the external environment: development.
Gyruss products are Work with our suppliers to try to improve designed to be safe and reliable for their environmental management as it their intended use, and to comply with relates to products and services they all legal and regulatory requirements.
provide to Gyrus: Develop specific standard operating For more information, procedures for each operation go to www.
com within Gyrus with regular audits to monitor compliance: Gyrus Group PLC 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
