Corporate Social Responsibility Halfords has an ongoing corporate social responsibility Employee engagement and support are vitally important programme, which is designed to promote to the Company and several initiatives are in place to understanding amongst our stakeholders of the achieve this, e. g. a website has been set up enable important issues for our business and to facilitate employees to post comments on any business matter, appropriate management approaches.
It is our aim to and particular support sessions have been created for continually improve our management of social, major business changes, such as the introduction of environmental and economic issues throughout the new systems.
In addition, training and development business and our supply network.
programmes are in place throughout the business to maximise peoples skills and advancement.
A summary of our policies and developments over the past year is given below.
A full copy of our corporate In the environment social responsibility report for 2006 can be found on the Our commitment is to understand and improve the Companys website, www.
com performance and management of our environmental impact throughout the Halfords supply chain.
We aim to In the marketplace achieve a high standard of responsible care for people Our policy is to meet or exceed the requirements of and the environment, whilst maximising business legislation, industry standards, international efficiency and growth.
conventions and codes of practice.
We oppose the exploitation of children and young people, and the In the community exploitation of workers generally, and we support fair The Company is the technical sponsor of the British and reasonable rewards and conditions for workers.
Heart Foundation London to Brighton cycle ride, To this end, we conduct factory, warehouse and tied providing 150 cycle mechanics from our stores to keep accommodation inspections and audits to ensure that the fund-raisers on the road.
Our cycle specialists our standards are being implemented.
provide help and service to the estimated 57,000 riders who take part each year.
The British Heart Foundation The health and safety of workers employed in our is the UKs leading charity on heart disease and its supply chain is a key concern for us.
We require all prevention, and this is the third year of sponsorship activities to be carried out under conditions that have by Halfords.
proper and adequate regard for the health and safety of those involved.
Around eight out of ten child seats in the UK are wrongly fitted in cars, sometimes leading to injury or In the workplace death of babies and toddlers.
As one of the UKs Engaging with our employees has been one of our main leading retailers of child seats, Halfords has invested in objectives.
One of our greatest achievements regarding training around 1,600 store staff in the demonstration employee engagement has been our ability to reward and free fitting of child seats.
We also run roadshows at our people following the flotation and let them share in Halfords stores across the UK, working with road safety our future success as a listed company.
To do this we officers to give free advice and fitting services to successfully launched a Company share option scheme parents and guardians and we also promote our own that invited employees to accept a grant of options national child seat safety week at all superstores to through the scheme.
The most innovative aspect of this raise awareness of the issue.
scheme was the decision to include all of our people, irrespective of their position within the business.
We are For 2006 the Company has chosen The Meningitis Trust particularly proud of this achievement, as similar as our Charity of the Year.
This will involve all of our schemes are usually designed for the executive or employees in the UK and the Republic of Ireland in fundsenior management population.
We also encourage raising initiatives to support the Trust.
On average, one wider share ownership within the business through a person in the UK dies every day from meningitis and it sharesave scheme, which is available to all employees, kills more children under five than any other infectious subject to eligibility criteria.
The Halfords partnership will focus on raising awareness amongst our staff and customers and raising money to support the charitys many campaigns.
24 Corporate Social Responsibility Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2006
