100 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Corporate responsibility Socially responsible investment Training Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional 2005 06 saw the launch of the Halma Executive Development and private investors who base their decisions on environmental, Programme HEDP which is based on our recognition of the ethical and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader in fundamental part our people play in the success of the Group.
several key environmental technologies and has a reputation for HEDP is an integrated development plan for our senior people honesty and integrity in its relationships with employees, the next generation of Managing Directors and Divisional Chief customers, business partners and shareholders.
Our objective is to provide these individuals with the tools and training to achieve more in their existing role Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation and potentially to advance through the organisation playing of wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our a pivotal role in continuing the success of the Group.
employees, customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where this wealth is best distributed.
HEDP is aimed squarely at employees already serving on subsidiary boards but we also encourage applications from Regulatory demands upon us vary considerably around the senior managers who can demonstrate they already have world, so in each of the following areas Halma establishes the equivalent responsibilities and will benefit from the programme.
core structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with regulatory requirements while permitting them to tailor The programme has been developed from a proven course the solutions to their particular needs.
structure and is specifically tailored to suit Halmas needs.
It focuses strongly on strategic and leadership capabilities The workplace and on developing personal attributes commitment, Halma demonstrated that it is one of the UKs most admired determination and resilience.
There is an emphasis on businesses by a high ranking in Management Today magazines Performance Management and Team Development.
It includes annual survey of corporate reputation.
The awards are a peer skill-based elements such as Sales and Marketing Management, review, distilling the opinions of directors who run 220 of the UKs Project Leadership, Personal Communication, Corporate largest companies.
This is a revealing survey based on the key Governance, Finance and Innovation, but all are presented elements that help make companies successful.
Companies are, in a strategic context.
in effect, judged by their competitors, and the survey is unique in Additional training on the Group intranet also provides the the UK.
opportunity for all Group employees to expand their skill set by Halma was ranked the 27th most admired company out of a making available to them a wide ranging menu of courses for list of more than two hundred businesses.
The awards are completion at their own pace.
The courses available broadly fall based on a survey by Nottingham Business School of the ten into the classifications of innovation, management, personal largest UK-based companies in each of 22 different sectors.
development, sales and technical areas of expertise such as Respondents rate companies in categories such as quality of manufacturing and accounting.
Since the launch of e-learning management, financial soundness, quality of products, ability in October 2004, 178 modules have been completed.
to attract, develop and retain talented managers, value as a long-term investment and capacity to innovate.
We believe that everyone who works for Halma can take pride in this result because everyone, whatever their role, contributes to the Groups reputation.
It is a great compliment to our business, especially when you see that we are ranked above big companies like Shell, British Airways, J Sainsbury and Marks & Spencer.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 101 Health and safety During 2005 06, Halma introduced Eureka!, a monthly prize for The Group recognises the necessity of safeguarding the health the most creative innovation idea submitted during any one and safety of our own employees whilst at work and operates month.
The idea does not need to have been implemented or so as to provide a safe and comfortable working environment even have proven financial viability we are simply looking for for employees, visitors and the public.
The Groups health and the actual birth of the idea, the creative spark, the eureka!
that safety policy, which is set out on our website, is to manage our heralds the start of an original thought process which upon activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable germination will bring new benefit to a Group business.
risks to health and safety.
The policy is understood by all Group The Group continued the successful Innovation Initiative, companies, and given the autonomous structure of the Group, launched in 2004 05, which encourages the research and operational responsibility for compliance with relevant local development teams at each Group company to re-examine their health and safety regulations is delegated to the Board of product designs with a view to being more efficient and effective Directors of each Group company.
We believe health and safety using components which are more environmentally acceptable.
training is very important and it is carried out within companies The 2005 06 Gold Award of 20,000 was presented at the annual as appropriate.
Adequate internal reporting exists in order that CEO Conference by Geoff Unwin to Ed Agar of Palintest for his the Group Finance Director may monitor each companys work on the Cool Pool Tester, a hand-held electronic instrument compliance with this policy.
for monitoring water quality of residential swimming pools and The Group has collected details of its worldwide reported health spas.
The Silver Award of 10,000 was awarded to Carol and safety incidents which are available on our website.
Cessford of Elfab for her Think Global, Act Local project, a global telecommunications network in 50 countries linked to Ethics a multilingual sales team.
The Bronze Award of 5,000 was The Group culture is one of openness, honesty and shared by two teams Matt Carroll, Bill Benson and Gordon accountability.
Halma encourages its employees to act fairly in Denny of Mosebach for their H-Pin Resistor Retention System, their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and a new design for Mosebachs off-highway dynamic braking business partners.
We aim to have suppliers of high quality and resistors and Brian Rogers and David Landis of Ocean Optics operate to acceptable international standards.
Halma operates for their Custom Fiber Optic Assembly Quoting and CAD a confidential whistleblowing policy, which enables all Group Drawing Creation Website, a website for the rapid creation employees to raise any concerns they may have.
of quotations and CAD drawings, incorporating a customer approval e-mail service.
Innovation Continuous innovation is a critical ingredient for Halmas growth.
The environment Continually refreshing our intellectual property leads to new Within Halma, we have an excellent long-term record and a products and processes and helps us to maintain the strong clear strategy for addressing environmental issues that affect market positions held by many of our companies.
Innovation is our businesses and for developing products that protect the not just the responsibility of our development departments but environment and improve safety at work and in public places.
is integral to all commercial activities within the business.
Innovative ideas can range from a novel way to enter a new or remote market to administration process improvements speeding the delivery of products to customers.
All employees within the Group have the opportunity to deliver innovative ideas to help their company and the Group achieve the growth objectives.
102 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Corporate responsibility continued Our products Environmental management system Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in We are committed to developing and implementing an monitoring and improving the environment.
Halma brands lead environmental management system EMS throughout the the world in a number of technologies which help to minimise Group to measure, control and, where practical, reduce our environmental damage.
We are developing performance indicators that will assist local management in implementing the Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage policy and developing an EMS.
The requirement for an EMS and detection, gas emissions monitoring, water and effluent analysis, the related reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units, UV water treatment and fibre optic spectrometers.
We tirelessly which represent over 50% of Group production facilities in terms promote the use of UV water sterilisation which eliminates the of external turnover.
All Group companies are encouraged to need to use dangerous chemicals, as well as products that undertake ISO 14001, the international environmental standard, minimise the waste of clean water.
accreditation where warranted, and during the year, Apollo Fire Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring Detectors Limited and Berson Milieutechniek BV obtained environmental changes and controlling the damaging impact of ISO 14001 approval.
The requirement to implement an EMS industrial activities is long term.
will be extended to the rest of the Group in the medium term.
We make safety equipment for use at work, in public places and Our impacts in transportation systems that contribute to increased personal We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, safety by ensuring safe practice at work, protecting people from in common with all businesses, our activities have an fire and making elevators and automatic doors safe and effective.
Our products do not require capitalWe are the major world supplier in several of these areas.
intensive manufacturing processes, so the environmental effect of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers in Environmental policy other sectors.
The Groups policy on environmental issues is published on our website and has been distributed and explained to all Halma Group companies are encouraged to improve energy efficiency, business units.
reduce waste and emissions and to reduce the use of materials in order to reduce their environmental impact.
The Group A senior executive in each of our business units is responsible for carried out an exercise in 2004 05 to establish baseline data on implementing the environmental policy at local level.
The Group emissions to air and water, water and energy consumption, and Finance Director, Kevin Thompson, has principal responsibility for waste production.
The Group updates the results of this annual coordinating and monitoring the policy.
exercise on its website each July.
The data collected for the past two years will enable the Group to set objectives for reducing its environmental impacts in those areas and to look at setting targets for reduction in key areas.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 103 The collected data confirms that the main areas of impact on the environment are energy consumption and waste disposal.
The Group does not operate a fleet of distribution vehicles although we do own a number of company cars.
Few of our assembly processes require water, so there are not large quantities of waste water to manage.
After targets have been set in key areas of environmental impact, the Group is committed to examining the establishment of green procurement policies.
The Groups environmental performance will continue to be reported in both the Annual report and on our website.
FTSE4Good index Halma was designated a member of the FTSE4Good UK index on its establishment in July 2001.
The FTSE4Good index measures and benchmarks the performance of companies with good records of corporate social responsibility and aids investors who use socially responsible investment criteria.
The FTSE4Good Selection Criteria cover three areas: working towards environmental sustainability: developing positive relationships with stakeholders: and upholding and supporting universal human rights.
