qxp 23 2 07 22:18 Page 16 16 Operating and financial review Our employees quarrying, manufacturing, distribution The ongoing development of e-recruitment We understand and support roles.
biz careers is also an important aspect of the recruitment strategy.
that the success Our culture We are an industry leader making an of strategic and Retaining our people important contribution to the world around We have put in place a global system of operational execution us by supplying the raw materials and reporting on human capital measures to products to build key facilities from roads monitor areas of employee turnover and depends on the to hospitals, schools to airports.
reasons for leaving, as well as measures around workforce planning.
The quality and leadership Safety is a priority.
We are always conscious engagement and development of our of our responsibility towards the environment employees are also seen as important of our people.
and the communities in which we operate.
Our people We understand the importance of our Hanson employs 25,900 people, customers and adopt a can do attitude in Developing our people operating from over 1,500 sites We have a track record of growing our own order to remain committed to their needs.
located close to our customer base managers by developing people for different We seek to shape and develop our own in 15 countries.
This is also supplemented by talent by providing career development formal learning such as completion of the Our worldwide spread gives us strength opportunities.
Hanson Diploma in Management, and breadth and each site acts with a Foundations of Management, Management local business feel in the community Our approach Development Programme or the Global in which it operates.
Equal opportunity Advanced Leadership Programme.
As an equal opportunity employer, our We have talented people working in a people are recruited, promoted and The Global Advanced Leadership range of job roles including professionals rewarded without regard to gender, age or Programme involves teams of senior in engineering, geology, finance, sales, beliefs but rather based on merit.
Managing managers from Hanson joining with teams for diversity presents opportunities for from other companies to address an Our guiding principles: improved business performance.
The planning measures allow us to tap into Open, honest and committed to programme runs for three one-week opportunities in areas such as ethnicity, modules and is held in Europe, Asia and individual development and well being gender and age and tailor our employment North America.
Academics from McGill High performance culture offering accordingly.
Full consideration is University in Canada, Lancaster University Our word is our bond given to the employment, the continuing in England and the Indian Institute of Management work with the teams acting employment, training and career Customer focused development of disabled people.
as friendly consultants to provide next Continuous improvement in all generation learning for the participants.
our activities including safety and Attracting the right people into Hanson the environment We understand the need to attract goodSuccession quality people to work for Hanson.
We The succession system enables us to Grow and develop the business remain focused on the retention and to increase shareholder value maximise the potential of our people as part development of employees.
of our leadership competency framework.
Proactive corporate citizens We have ongoing programmes ranging from Performance and reward management Provide consistent leadership educating schoolchildren about the sector, The approach to performance and reward internships, graduate recruitment and management is to ensure our people have a participation in job fairs which link with clear understanding of the job role and their professional bodies in order to broaden required outputs which are aligned with key understanding of our industry.
The manner in which Hanson 2006 www.
qxp 26 2 07 16:24 Page 17 17 the outputs are achieved is also an safe and healthy working environment and important factor.
develop best practice around the world.
Feedback and coaching for improved In 2006, the Board formally endorsed its performance is an important aspect of our approach to health and safety with a group management approach.
The reward system policy statement.
Our divisional Chief Executives Managing Directors remain is based on recognising and rewarding good performance.
responsible for establishing formal policies, for ensuring that arrangements are made to Short-term incentive plans target year-onfull those policies and for monitoring their year improvement in economic value added.
Training supports a clear understanding of The use of appropriate safety equipment The divisional Chief Executives Managing each persons role and how it contributes to is mandatory at all our sites.
Directors are supported by a network of overall improved performance.
safety professionals, who share information and best practice to apply the lessons Communication learnt from accident investigations across Internal communications play an important the group.
role in keeping employees up to date and aligning them with our goals.
In order to We seek to prevent injuries and other deliver this, we use the intranet, newsletters, incidents from occurring by: a global magazine, employee surveys, a Training our employees to work safely and thorough induction programme, brieng eliminating the causes of unsafe behaviour sessions and targeted training courses.
Providing safe systems of work and During 2006, a number of employee encouraging a safe production culture surveys were undertaken and the results fed back to employees as a means of Striving for improved safety performance identifying areas for improvement and the Our logo, shown here on one of our mixer drums, is an important part of our identity.
Committing to industry improvement action to be taken.
This process allows us initiatives and targets to tap into the knowledge and experience of the broader Hanson team.
In 2006, we continued to focus on eliminating unsafe behaviour through We promote the sharing of ideas across programmes of training and performance divisions in order to leverage the adoption monitoring against targets.
We are of best practice across Hanson.
Nondedicated to working with our employees financial key performance indicators, such to change their perception and acceptance as customer services measures, are playing of risk so that safety is not compromised.
an increasing role in knowledge transfer.
The approach towards this interdependent Health and safety safety model is supported and led by We are committed to achieving high Alan Murray, Chief Executive who is the standards of health, safety and welfare director responsible for health and safety, for our employees, contractors, customers as well as the divisional Chief A key part of our internal communications and visitors.
is Hansons quarterly magazine for our employees worldwide.
Hanson actively engages with government agencies, trade associations and other similar bodies to promote the benets of a Our employees
