qxp 26 2 07 15:34 Page 18 18 Operating and financial review Our environment being a responsible neighbour to the We are also able to reuse our own products.
Environmental communities in which we are located.
Concrete, either from a returned load or after use in a structure, can be used to management is In 2006, we started an 18 month replace aggregate.
When asphalt programme of improving and rationalising integral to the pavements reach the end of their life, we our environmental management systems.
are able to reuse some of the old surface We are consolidating our processes onto way in which we in the new pavement.
fewer electronic platforms to achieve greater consistency.
Energy Addressing sustainability provides Energy use is of concern for its contribution Our approach opportunities for new products and services.
to greenhouse gas production and to the For Hanson, environmental management Hansons acquisition of Formpave in 2006 extent it is derived from non-renewable is integral to the way in which we run our is one such example.
In 2006, we began a corporate business.
It affects product and service leader in the rapidly expanding sustainable carbon and energy management review design, the way in which we operate our urban drainage systems SUDS market, with the Carbon Trust.
sites and their after-use when production providing permeable paving.
Divisional energy saving initiatives have used to reduce the risk of ooding and been successful in improving control over We will continue to develop our group to prevent pollution.
We have already seen sustainability strategy through 2007.
This improvements and we are disseminating will build on existing policies and practices Increase our resource and energy efficiency what we have learnt throughout which aim for high standards in managing As a heavy building materials producer, the businesses.
our people and the environment and the natural resources such as minerals, energy way in which we relate to our communities.
and water are at the centre of our business.
Reducing our energy consumption makes We focus on the areas in which we can good environmental and financial sense.
Minerals and recycling have the greatest impact as follows: We seek to conserve mineral resources increasing the efficiency with which where practicable.
Examples include the we use resources and energy use of recycled glass as an aggregate reducing CO emissions 2 in asphalt and the use of ground granulated blast furnace slag GGBS managing our land holdings to provide as a cement substitute.
habitats for wildlife Conserving water: Our Maroochydore plant in Habitats for wildlife: One of Britains rarest Responsible neighbour: Our brick operations Australia was designed to minimise water use.
birds, the bittern, has started to boom at the in North America donated 16,000 bricks and Features include the use of rainwater and treated Hanson RSPB wetland being created at volunteer labour last summer to the Union County grey water from the adjacent water treatment plant.
Needingworth quarry in Cambridgeshire, UK.
Chapter of Habitat for Humanity.
qxp 26 2 07 16:55 Page 19 19 Water Key areas of focus: Water is an essential part of daily life and, in some places, scarce.
Ready-mixed concrete, Increasing our Reducing CO Managing our Being a 2 brick and block manufacture consume a resource and emissions land holdings to responsible significant quantity of water.
Aggregate energy efficiency provide habitats neighbour production uses water to clean the product: for wildlife after use, we either recycle the water or return it to the groundwater system.
We obtain the water we use from boreholes In 2006, Hanson was invited and agreed to the contribution of industry to modern and other natural sources and also from participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
We have prepared high quality mains water supply.
This is run on behalf of a group of over 200 teaching materials and also run events for Our key objectives around water usage are: investors to address the potential impact of teachers to help them to prepare for visits climate change upon businesses.
and integrate them into the curriculum.
minimising the quantity of water which is consumed We are involved in fundraising and Manage our land holdings to provide maintaining the quality of water which sponsorship, as well as making donations habitats for wildlife and gifts in kind to the communities in leaves our sites Hanson is a large landowner and is in a which we operate.
We maintain water quality through good position to maintain this land to encourage the creation of diverse habitats for wildlife.
housekeeping and routine checks to Our products play an important role in ensure that the systems and controls are We work in partnership with statutory and enhancing the quality of peoples lives on a charitable organisations, both whilst sites working effectively.
Therefore, we are often asked to are operational and after we have support local projects by donating materials.
Reduce CO emissions ceased operating.
2 We have a general policy of supporting We recognise the importance of reducing community projects in this way, particularly In the UK, we have a biodiversity and CO emissions and we use a number of 2 those located near to our operations.
geodiversity action plan with dened targets different strategies to achieve this: which we have met.
In addition, at a corporate level, we support use of alternative raw materials a small number of charities which have a Be a responsible neighbour use of renewable energy sources link with our business.
In 2006, these were We seek to manage the environmental CRASH, the UK construction industry managing the way we transport impact of our operations at all stages, charity for the homeless: the Royal Botanic our products from planning through operation to Gardens at Kew, where we support the improving our energy efficiency decommissioning.
Once we have identied conservation area: the Rotunda Museum a mineral resource which is well positioned Cement substitutes provide an opportunity of geology in Scarborough and the for Hanson to reduce the emissions for its market, we consider how the Smithsonians National Museum of Natural extraction, processing or manufacture and associated with the production and use of History in Washington DC where we have concrete.
GGBS, for which we are the UK transport of this essential building material contributed to an endowment fund to will affect the local and wider community.
market leader following our acquisition of maintain and upgrade the Rocks Gallery.
Civil and Marine in 2006, is one such Potential issues such as noise and the substitute for Portland Cement.
GGBS is visual impact of our operations, particularly produced from blast furnace slag, a byin rural areas, are dramatically reduced or product from the manufacture of steel.
As a eliminated by the use of screening earth by-product, manufacture of GGBS requires banks and tree planting.
less than one fifth of the energy and produces one tenth of the CO emissions We consider that school visits to our sites 2 are important in demonstrating to children of Portland Cement.
