Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 Hays plc Corporate Social Responsibility I want to grow with an international business and make a difference Our Values: I feel able to achieve personal success Passionate About People Our employee brand and values support our aim to create an environment of mutual respect and trust.
Through our annual Work With Empathy global employee engagement survey, TALKback, we measure Take Personal Ownership how employees feel about working for Hays and seek feedback.
The results of this survey are reviewed by the top Expect Excellence management team and local Managing Directors to ensure Forward Thinking that we take action on our employees feedback.
Our desire to attract and retain a high quality and diverse workforce is supported by our Equal Opportunities Policy, which details our legal requirements, and our employee policies As a specialist recruitment business, Hays plays an important that encourage people from a variety of backgrounds to join role in placing people in jobs, allowing individuals to make the and remain with the Group.
Differences in age, gender, best use of their talents and skills and helping them to ethnicity, sexuality, physical appearance, religion, education maintain their work life balance in the manner that they wish.
and beliefs are respected and everyone has the opportunity Our temporary stafng provides exible working arrangements to contribute to the Group and full their potential.
In our for all sectors of society to have access to the workplace.
Australian business, we have been awarded an Employer of Choice for Women citation by the Federal Governments Equal Our Values Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency EOWA to At Hays, our aim is to be the best Specialist Recruitment recognise that we have policies and practices in place to Company in the world in the eyes of clients, candidates, staff support women in the business.
We believe we will achieve this by placing the right person in the right job every time.
Through listening to our clients and our employees, we have created the Hays values.
These clear standards Finding people jobs is an of service and behaviours support everything we do to serve important task in society, our clients: that carries with it duties Passionate About People at Hays we believe that nding of social responsibility.
people jobs is an important task in society that carries with it duties of care and professional behaviour Work With Empathy at Hays we treat people as we Our employees are fundamental to the success of the would like to be treated ourselves business and we are keen to develop their skills and abilities via Take Personal Ownership at Hays we hold ourselves a variety of training and development programmes.
Employees accountable for everything we do.
We communicate and can participate in these programmes which include on the job act promptly, clearly and with honesty Expect Excellence at Hays we are driven to achieve training, structured courses in a range of key skill areas and superior results through exceptional service delivery management development.
Programmes vary according to the Forward Thinking at Hays we strive to improve our needs of each of our countries, regions and brands.
customer service by investing our time, energy and profits for We have an Employee Forum in the United Kingdom where the benefit of our staff, clients, candidates and shareholders employee representatives can meet with the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director and raise issues which We are communicating these values to our employees, our they would like considered.
The forum also provides an clients and our various stakeholders around the world.
These opportunity for management to discuss new initiatives with staff.
values represent the standards that we expect our employees to deliver and exceed.
They also provide a clear mandate for Health & Safety our clients and candidates expectations of the standard We provide safe working conditions for our employees and of service they will receive, when dealing with any of our visitors.
The Health & Safety Manager has a responsibility not employees, whenever and wherever they use our services only for policy development and implementation, but also for in the world.
the collation and dissemination of information and performance reports.
Policies are clear and simple, they are regularly Employees reviewed and updated, and refresher training is provided In line with our business aim, our human resources aim is to for Health & Safety Ofcers in the business units.
be the best Specialist Recruitment Company to work for in the The incident reporting system continues to identify world.
To deliver this aim and to support the business strategy, accidents that occur to our staff, and the Company Secretary we have a robust Group human resources strategy and plan.
reports significant events to the Executive Committee.
The We have dened our employee proposition and employee statistics are compiled and shared across the Group enabling brand which explains what it means to be the best Specialist management to take a proactive approach to health and safety Recruitment Company to work for.
Our aim is that any of our for their staff.
The majority of incidents in 2006 have been employees would be able to say: trips and falls and striking xed objects.
The frequency of these incidents has been low and the severity minor.
Staff I have a genuine interest in people and love placing concerns over health and safety are raised at the Employees people in jobs Forum and are passed on to management.
Policy continues I enjoy my job and feel a sense of belonging to Hays to be updated to take account of these issues and changes I am proud to work here and would recommend Hays in legislation.
as a great place to work I feel trusted to do my job Environment I respect my line manager and they respect and support me We believe that the Groups operations have a low impact I am fairly rewarded for my performance on the environment but we continue to work to reduce this I am happy to go the extra mile to deliver great commercial impact further.
We have implemented various initiatives to customer service achieve this aim.
com Corporate Social Responsibility continued Hays ofces have recycle bins for waste paper.
Last year, over 400 tonnes was collected in the United Kingdom, equivalent to 7,225 trees.
Toner and printer cartridges are 75,000 recycled with the proceeds being donated to the Lighthouse Club, one of the Companys chosen charities.
The recycling Raised by employees for the of old mobile phones also benets this charity.
NSPCC 15,000 ahead of To reduce the number of company vehicles, ofces have pool cars for consultants to visit clients.
Hays also encourages our 60,000 two-year target company car owners to choose fuel efficient vehicles to reduce emissions.
Throughout the business, most staff operate from open plan ofces, minimising total oor space and associated energy consumption.
Our layouts are designed to make 21,500 operations efficient and encourage strong team development.
We are aware of the initiative to make companies Raised for the Lighthouse Club Carbon Neutral, and we are working with The Carbon Neutral Company on our E Shareholder project.
A tree will be dedicated for every shareholder who signs up, via www.
co. uk, to receive all their future communications from Hays electronically.
This includes future annual report and accounts and notices of meetings.
This will reduce the environmental impact, as well as reducing costs.
Hays is keen to improve its operational efficiency and enhance customer service whilst introducing processes that are environmentally friendly.
We have introduced digital scanning of time sheets and are developing web-based time sheet entry.
We digitally store candidate resumes for use across the whole business and continue to encourage electronic billing of clients where possible.
We believe that these and other initiatives make good commercial sense as well as being environmentally sound.
Charity For the past two years we have supported the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and its sister charity st in Scotland, Children 1 as our chosen corporate charity.
Our charitable donations and activities across Hays in the United Kingdom have helped to raise over 75,000 for this very worthwhile charity, well in excess of our 60,000 two year target.
We recently conducted a poll via our intranet for employees to choose the next corporate charity that we will support.
More than half our employees chose the Marie Curie Cancer Care, which cares for over 25,000 terminally ill patients in the United Kingdom.
We will be working closely with the Marie Curie fundraising team to help raise significant funds across Hays using a wide range of activity-based sponsorship including charity walks, cycling events, marathons and mountain trekking challenges.
Across the United Kingdom regions our staff also support a wide range of regional and local charities with individual, team and ofce-based activities.
21,500 was raised for the Lighthouse Club, the construction industry charity, by Hays employees recycling toners and mobile phones, and numerous fundraising events.
