A Accounts ccounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41 Corporate and social responsibility Introduction We work with our main suppliers to improve working practices Our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is and the environmental management of our supply chain, included within our group procedures manual which sets out our although we recognise that many of our main suppliers already undertaking to act ethically and responsibly in all of our business work to exacting standards.
We seek to improve in these areas dealings with stakeholders.
We are committed to continuous and would comment on our commitment as follows: improvements in all aspects of CSR our policies, our systems, our performance and our reporting.
Our management structure increase the use of environmental specification.
allows the consideration of social and environmental factors by increase the volume of certified sustainable natural products.
both individual businesses within the group and also at a group reduce the amount of CO2 emissions.
Our links with external stakeholders continue to grow reduce fuel consumption and vehicle emissions.
including improved customer liaison and community involvement.
reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill.
We monitor our performance against objectives with the aim of reduce the amount of packaging.
In addition to improvements in respect increase the use of green energy.
of environmental and social responsibility performance, we have reduce water consumption.
continued to make positive moves in waste and energy encourage the use of whole life cost assessments.
management, supply chain accountability, sustainable encourage pollution prevention initiatives.
development, health and safety and staff development and welfare.
We seek to reduce energy and water consumption through the development of an awareness programme communicated to Our policy employees, the introduction on repair, renewal or installation of Our policy sets out the framework for the development and energy or water efficient techniques and equipment.
implementation of CSR activities across the group.
We continue to invest in the commercial and motor vehicles We will conduct all our business activities in a fair and balanced that we operate replacing them every five and three years manner, respecting and responding to legal, social and ethical respectively, so improving operational efficiencies and reducing issues arising from our commercial activities.
operating costs and vehicle emissions.
Obligations placed on manufacturers have resulted in the production of more efficient We are committed across the group to continued progress in the and less polluting vehicles.
Replacement of Euro 2 compliant following areas: commercial vehicles with new Euro 4 compliant models, according to manufacturers statistics, has resulted in significant improving the quality of our products, processes and services.
savings in all regulated exhaust emissions: a 62.5% reduction in becoming an employer of choice.
carbon monoxide, a 58.8% reduction in hydrocarbons, a 50% improving our health and safety performance.
reduction in nitrous oxides and a 86.6% reduction in particulate working with the local communities around our businesses.
Efficiencies achieved in motor vehicles have been protecting the environment.
less notable with CO2 emissions for the majority of the motor achieving sustained growth and profitability.
vehicles operated reducing from 159g to 157g following the introduction of Euro 4 compliant models.
These areas reflect our main responsibilities as the leading European floorcovering distributor.
They will be widened to Our operations predominantly create waste materials in the form encompass other stakeholders as our CSR programme develops.
of protective plastic wrapping, cardboard and wooden pallets.
Increasingly we collect the plastic and cardboard in discreet Improving the quality of our products, processes and types and, with the use of baler units that we have invested in services over the last few years, despatch these to specialist re-processing We aim to increase awareness and communication of the agents.
environmental strategy and commitments through a programme of employee training.
Headlam Group plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate and social responsibility continued Wooden pallets are re-cycled where possible or sent to specialist Investment in automated despatch sortation equipment has re-processors.
In addition we recycle the cardboard poles that are significantly reduced manual handling in those businesses where used in the centre of rolls of carpet and vinyl until they are no they have been installed which will in turn reduce the number longer capable of being re-used.
In these ways we seek to reduce and frequency of reported manual handling accidents.
the amount of waste that is sent to landfill sites.
Guidance on waste management is issued to the managers of the individual Further details are given in the directors report in the section on businesses to increase awareness of the need to control waste.
We continue to work with our suppliers to improve the re-cycling Working with the local communities around our businesses.
content of packaging materials and consequently reduce our We recognise that our business should be conducted in a socially packaging waste.
as well as environmentally responsible way.
Listening to and learning from what our customers, employees, suppliers and Becoming an employer of choice other stakeholders tell us about what is important to them is a At the heart of the group are our people who seek to deliver feature of how we work.
It has helped us keep in touch with their best for the business, which combined with a fair and what is happening in the markets in which we operate.
We are responsive way of doing business, generates a common ambition committed to managing the social responsibilities connected to add significant value.
Our policy towards employees is set out with our business in an open and honest way.
in the directors report in the section on employment, training and development.
Protecting the environment We have a structure in place that facilitates the pooling of Improving our health and safety performance information and resources to ensure best practice is shared across The group attaches great significance to the management of the the group.
In recognising our responsibility to protect the health, safety and welfare of both its employees and others.
To environment we have adopted an environmental policy which is this end we have adopted a policy that is available for inspection reviewed periodically.
Our policy seeks to cover the various at all operating locations and which is reviewed on a regular aspects that affect our businesses, including the following: basis.
maintaining a management framework for implementing the The board has put in place policies that seek to ensure that environmental policy objectives into business decision making, group operations are carried out at all times in such a manner as alongside commercial, safety and other factors.
to ensure, so far as it is reasonably practicable, the health and complying with applicable environment legislation, regulations safety at work of employees and all persons likely to be affected, and standards.
including other contractors, clients, staff and members of the developing operational procedures designed to minimise public where appropriate.
pollution risks and to deal effectively with any incidents which occur.
The value of employee participation in delivering this taking positive action to minimise waste and to encourage commitment is recognised and management teams are recycling wherever practical.
encouraged to create a supportive culture.
To achieve this we improving efficiency in the use of facilities, energy, water and endeavour to ensure that: raw materials.
working with our advisors, suppliers and sub-contractors to we continue to improve health and safety systems, procedures ensure effective environmental supply chain management, and guidance.
alongside quality, price and other purchasing criteria.
personnel are aware of this policy.
reducing the environmental impact of our products through we maintain high standards of health and safety.
a consistent reporting structure is maintained.
training employees to enhance their awareness of, and adequate resources are provided.
commitment to, maximising environmental performance.
reviewing the groups environmental policy periodically to take account of organisational, legislative and fiscal changes.
A Accounts ccounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43 Corporate and social responsibility continued The group seeks to improve its environmental performance and to We recognise that our business operations will be around for minimise the impact of its operations.
many years, having an impact on future generations, and to this end we work with local authorities to design new properties Achieving sustained growth and profitability which not only comply with guidelines but seek to blend in with Whilst achieving the groups goal of sustained growth and their surroundings through the careful use of quality materials, profitability in future years, there are a number of key areas landscaping and design features.
We support the desire to see which will assist in attaining the financial objectives at the same development take place in sustainable locations, the site for our time as meeting our corporate social responsibility obligations.
new facility in Bridgend being reclaimed land.
Through improving our understanding and control of our supply This report is not subject to audit by KPMG.
chain, we shall continue to investigate the benefits from using green specification guides and modify our strategy accordingly.
We shall continue to work with suppliers to ensure products are supplied from renewable sources and that their manufacturing processes fairly reward employees and do not seek to exploit.
We shall continue to work with our suppliers to investigate the potential for improvements in product design.
We place great importance on effectively managing our operations to minimise the likelihood of adverse impact.
We proactively manage our facilities to minimise energy consumption utilising energy efficient lighting and heating.
Our new sites are subjected to an environmental assessment prior to any construction taking place.
This allows solutions to any identified environmental issues to be incorporated into the planning process.
Recognising that development can be potentially damaging, we seek to minimise energy consumption during the construction of new premises and the effects on the environment.
Wherever possible, subject to the operating constraints of the business, existing trees and vegetation are retained and augmented as necessary.
Existing sites are maintained in a tidy condition to minimise ecological impact.
As part of our commitment to sustainable development we work with transport consultants to formulate green travel plans incorporating car sharing schemes and provision for bicycles when designing new facilities.
