Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 20 Corporate social responsibility Summary and highlights Our commitment Every year, Hikmas products save lives and improve the health Letter from the Chairman and Chief Executive, of millions of people around the globe.
With our overriding Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC commitment to quality, in each of our chosen markets we aim to meet and exceed every regulation and quality test applicable One of the great lessons of my life is that it is vitally important to our industry.
for a successful person or business to commit to giving back.
Over 25 years we have built a strong and successful We hire and retain the best employees in the business and we global company based upon a set of core values which train them well.
We look after our employees and their families are underpinned by the principle of giving back to our because we are all part of the same Hikma family.
communities, environment, families, friends and colleagues Hikma cares about the communities in which it works.
We are and most importantly those less fortunate than ourselves.
committed to making life in those communities better for Everyone at Hikma rightly believes that the work we do is everyone who lives there, whether that is through education, vitally important: our medicines save lives and make life healthcare initiatives, charitable aid, sponsorships or work on more comfortable for millions of patients in many countries community improvement projects.
We also care about protecting throughout the world.
However, from day one, I recognised our environment and ensuring that the business of making that the way we do business is just as important as the quality lifesaving products doesnt negatively impact upon it.
of the products we produce.
Our core values I have always insisted upon the highest ethics and in not just Honesty, integrity and the highest ethical standards meeting, but striving to surpass the regulations and best practice that govern what we do.
This ethos encompasses Striving towards the highest levels of quality across our business our core business of producing medicines of the highest Respect for all people, regardless of race, religion, gender quality as well as doing our best to care for the communities or background and environment in which we live and work.
Dedication to the welfare, education and quality of life of I am delighted to be writing this commitment to Hikmas our employees corporate and social responsibility from a position of great strength: our commitment is not new or recently embarked Care and preservation of our environment and investment in upon.
It is, rather, a fundamental pillar upon which our business the communities in which we work.
Hikmas vision for Corporate Social Responsibility However, as with all good work, the job is never complete Our aim is to bring the strong principles of our founder to life and I assure our employees, shareholders, customers, patients, through a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policy that communities and the governments who have given us builds upon those principles and further aligns them with a permission to sell our products in their countries that we corporate strategy where ethical practices are integrated in all will continue to target the highest levels of corporate and aspects of Hikmas business practice.
social responsibility in everything that we do.
We aim to be recognised as a company that strives to focus on Samih T Darwazah respecting the environment and investing in the communities March 2007 in which we work whilst producing world-class products for our global market.
We want to be acknowledged as a company that aligns economic success with corporate and social responsibility, through a commitment to our people and by encouraging education and instilling positive values across our working practices.
In turn, this will bring value to our shareholders and to the communities where we work.
Our vision is to be a leader, both in the Middle East and globally, demonstrating that the strategic objectives of a business can be achieved alongside a sustainable interaction with the economic and social environment.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 21 Managing CSR Our work with NGOs and charities Hikma has taken several important steps in ensuring that CSR Hikma has recently adopted a formalised process for the way that remains a focus for the Group and its employees.
we work with and support NGOs at both global and local levels.
Over the years, we have supported a host of local charities and During 2006, we appointed an internationally recognised invested money and time into many much needed projects.
consulting firm to help us understand how CSR sits within These have helped fulfil one of the Companys main philosophies Hikmas strategy and to work with us to define our vision.
of giving something back to the communities in which we work.
They have collected data across our operations in order to identify areas where we are already achieving best practice and areas that Our strategy for working with and supporting NGOs and charities are in need of development.
Our aim for this coming year is to will focus from now on fulfilling three key objectives: encouraging implement a structured CSR programme, through which we can Company-wide employee engagement in our work with NGOs improve areas of weakness and develop our strengths.
By the end and charities, building mutually beneficial relationships with of 2007, we will be able to measure our progress against the data selected organisations, and raising awareness of Hikmas impact collected in 2006.
We will also be able to set out formal targets on the environment via our work with NGOs in specific areas against which we can report results and thus be in a position to such as water conservation or education.
This strategy should analyse our CSR efforts in an effective and measurable way.
enable us to raise our profile as a responsible world-leading pharmaceutical company as well as engage our employees to Another recent development in managing Hikmas ongoing CSR see beyond our specifically corporate aims.
is the creation of a new post of CSR Manager, reporting directly to the Executive Vice Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
Although we have adopted this Company-wide strategy, we believe that it is important and beneficial for each of our individual The CSR Manager heads up Hikmas CSR Core Committee businesses and operating companies to choose NGOs or charitable which is made up of a cross-section of Directors and managers.
causes they might wish to support for local or even personal The Committee meets regularly to discuss issues relating to reasons.
Hikma is keen to utilise our employees knowledge CSR and to decide on the best ways to move forward with of their local communities and to address their concerns for issues new policies, programmes and activities.
The CSR Manager is affecting it.
To ensure that our CSR strategy grows from the also responsible for day-to-day management and oversight grassroots level up we are currently engaging with individual of the Companys progress in measuring and delivering our employees as part of the process by which we will select and CSR objectives.
develop a global theme and cause.
In addition, Hikma has officially implemented a Corporate Code of Conduct which applies to all employees, including members CSR activity 2006 of the Board of Directors.
The Code sets the highest international Our environment level of ethical, moral, legal and business standards and covers Hikma believes strongly in sustainable development.
In every the spectrum of employee and corporate conduct.
Within this country in which we operate, we are dedicated to protecting context, the Code encompasses respect for the individual and the environment.
human rights, health and safety in the workplace, human development, protection of the environment, sustainability Hikma has an ongoing programme of installing energy saving or enhancement of natural resources, civic contribution, and systems and energy efficient machinery in our plants and public involvement.
During 2006, we invested in energy efficient machinery in 50% of our operations.
New building projects in Helping to raise international standards Jordan and Portugal were designed to make best use of natural Hikma has signed up to a number of international charters and light with skylights the administration buildings and laboratories.
compacts which work to raise standards of corporate and social responsibility around the globe.
In October 2006, Hikma signed up to the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative PACI charter, which aims to develop multi-industry principles and practices that result in a competitive level playing field based on integrity, fairness and ethical conduct.
Hikma is also in the process of assessing participation in the United Nations Global Compact UNGC and the Global Reporting Initiative GRI.
Adoption of the principles of these corporate citizenship initiatives would provide Hikma with a relevant, transparent and globally recognised reporting standard.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 22 Corporate social responsibility continued We manage our waste responsibly and continually look for Our employees further opportunities to recycle and reduce emissions.
Steel, Our employees are the lifeblood of Hikma and the pride of our aluminium, cardboard, plastic, paper and glass are recycled in a Company, both contributing to and benefiting from our corporate multi-site drive to recycle our waste products.
Water is cleaned by social responsibility ethos.
us, wherever appropriate, before being returned to treatment In addition to the usual range of employee benefits, Hikma also plants.
Air filters are used at our penicillin production plants and supports employees in fully funded further education such as all output is routinely tested and checked to ensure that only MBA and BA programmes and the Group provides bespoke clean air is emitted.
support for employees in need.
We believe in hiring the best Hikma regards environmental protection as a vital concern of employees we can find and then looking after them.
the Group and strongly encourages all employees to promote During 2007 Hikma will be introducing world-wide job grading energy savings and make the best possible efforts to conserve to allow us to compare positions across the Company and to and improve the environment.
During 2007, we will be drafting ensure internal and external equity with regards to compensation and implementing a Group-wide Environmental Policy and will and benefits.
We will also be developing our performance be setting targets for ourselves in environmental measurements management process through which employees are given such as emissions, energy use, water use and levels of waste.
quantifiable targets to personal and professional development.
This is being made possible as a result of the data gathering work we have commissioned and it will help us to both start We will also be developing a global Health and Safety policy a measurement process and create defined areas where we which will be based on country specific policies currently in place.
Our ethics Our society Pharmaceutical companies owe an extraordinary duty of care to Education is at the heart of Hikmas commitment to society.
their customers and end consumers in terms of product quality, We are passionate about providing opportunities for further safety and integrity.
Lives depend on us getting quality and education to our employees.
In addition, we co-operate with efficacy absolutely right every time.
local universities and professional colleges in on-site student Hikma demands high standards of its suppliers above and beyond training, site visits and assistance with research projects.
the technical aspects and regulatory compliance of what they Hikma also builds schools in remote areas, sponsors educational provide to us.
In 2007, we intend to develop this further, by conferences and provides ongoing support such as teacher formalising a process of examination of environmental and ethical housing and scholarships for promising students.
practices and ensuring compliance with laws and regulations in Charitable donations form another important part of Hikmas their respective countries.
role within our local communities.
During 2006, Hikma donated $1.0 million in cash and medicines to charitable causes both in Jordan and abroad.
Employee donations to disaster relief funds have been matched or exceeded by the Group and the Group provides regular donations to countries in crisis.
In addition, Hikma operates a wide range of sponsorships and supports an array of local charities in each of our communities around the world.
2007 will see more of the same, with increased assistance for charitable causes identified by our employees and stronger links with NGOs in our home countries.
As ever, education will continue to be a priority in terms of assistance for those who need it most and we will do our utmost to give both employees and those in our communities the very best in educational opportunities.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 23 Case study Letter from the Executive Vice-Chairman, Board member responsible for CSR Investment in the environment Hikmas production facilities in Portugal provide an excellent Whilst delivering value to our shareholders, our primary aim example of the ways in which the Company is working towards as a pharmaceutical company is that we produce consistently a cleaner, healthier environment.
The two plants one of which high quality products, that the communities we work in benefit is under a year old are state-of-the-art facilities that employ from a clean environment, and that the pharmaceutical industry 270 people and produce many of Hikmas injectable products.
benefits from our drive to raise standards and share our expertise internationally.
The plants have been built to provide energy efficient offices and production areas and Hikma has made a substantial investment Our CSR policy is designed to articulate the strong ethical in ensuring that the Company and its employees are committed principles upon which the company was founded by ensuring to efficient manufacturing practices and to minimising their that our employees understand the ways in which they can impact on the environment.
make a difference to the environment around them.
Firstly, that they are aware of how they can minimise their impact on the Our main environmental aim in the building of these plants environment both as individuals and in playing a valuable role has been to maximise the efficient utilisation of energy and to help Hikma reduce its impact.
Second, that our employees resources, explains Amjad Wahbeh, New Projects Director in enhance their contribution to society with the full cooperation Portugal.
The reduction of energy use, responsible solutions for and support of our organisation.
Finally, that we all ensure that waste disposal and recycling are all important factors in ensuring we feel comfortable with the environmental and social these facilities are as  as possible.
In the new plant, we have thought strategically about the Changing global conditions in terms of the environment, best utilisation of natural light to minimise our energy requirements.
practice, social awareness and political climates mean that we In addition, the implementation of motion detectors and a central must continually endeavour to meet the increasing demands of light control system ensures that the Company uses as little corporate and social responsibilities.
This report sets out how electric energy as possible.
we aim to formalise our ongoing commitment to Hikmas set The new plant has also been built with double wall insulation, of long-held business ethics and to ensure that all stakeholders a heat recovery system for the main air handling units, and a are aware of our intentions to drive forward our CSR principles.
water recycling system which ensures that cleaned process water is re-used for sanitary, irrigation and floor cleaning purposes.
Mazen Darwazah March 2007 Hikma is committed to the protection and improvement of the environment and to a greener and cleaner planet.
We are proud to be investing in energy efficient machinery that makes good environmental and good business sense.
