Annual report and accounts 2006 HMV Group plc 33 Corporate and social responsibility Corporate Responsibility In 2005 the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents HMV Group recognises that its businesses have social and RoSPA undertook a Health and Safety Audit of HMV environmental impacts and that we have a responsibility to UK & Ireland.
RoSPA uses a QSA system, which takes into manage these impacts effectively at a strategic and operational consideration the following: level.
In some areas we are in direct control of these impacts, policy while in others we can only attempt to inuence the actions audit and review of others.
performance management This statement contains our approach towards our social planning and implementation and environmental behaviour and management at Group and organising operational level.
The Group encourages its businesses to implement, where practicable, CR programmes and initiatives, In January 2005 HMV UK & Ireland introduced the Safety, Health and to manage their social and environmental impacts in ways and Environmental management software.
Therefore, this year that are relevant to their business, location and stakeholders.
has been the first year that accurate accident reporting gures Our CR approach pays particular regard to the following areas: have been recorded.
The number of total accidents reported this year increased by 74%, partly as a result of the increase in the health and safety number of HMV stores, though primarily because of the underenvironmental management reporting of accidents in the past.
Despite the overall increase, human resources reportable Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous community affairs Occurrences Regulation RIDDOR accidents fell by 25%.
product responsibility marketing Number of Number of RIDDOR accidents reportable Rewarding ability Reporting year total accidents The Group recognises the commitment and passion its employees have towards our products and serving our 2004 05 134 12 customers.
We encourage continual learning and development, 2005 06 233 9 recognise ability and reward effort.
We work hard to provide opportunities for empowerment and fullment.
We are proud of 56 Local Authorities conducted inspections of HMV stores and the individual service that our employees are able to provide no formal notices were served: 13 Chartered Institute through their product knowledge.
of Environmental Health courses where conducted with 170 store managers and loss prevention staff receiving basic Celebrating difference health and safety training: three in-store health and safety We value the different skills that our employees can bring to briefs were produced and delivered to stores, with subjects their work: product knowledge and customer service, and covered including manual handling, re awareness and celebrate the difference in individuals.
The Group does not safe use of ladders and knives.
discriminate on any grounds: respects individual preference, All centralised distribution centres received four health providing it is within the law: and encourages a widening of and safety audits over the course of the year conducted by the knowledge about people with different abilities, cultures, Risk and Safety Manager.
An average audit mark of 94% was needs and personalities.
achieved, the pass mark being 80%.
Store Health and Safety Audits were introduced in March 2006 with 20 priority stores Listening and responding highlighted by various indicators such as past audits, local We are interested in the views of our employees, customers and authority inspections and completion of the monthly checklist.
other stakeholders and, where possible and when relevant, try To date, 23 stores have been audited with 65% achieving the to make changes in response to feedback we receive.
We believe required pass mark.
in communicating openly and transparently, including feedback HMV UK & Ireland carried out an audit of compliance we have received and our response.
with the Disability Discrimination Act in 2004, and new store openings in 2005 06 incorporated the generic improvements Product accessibility identied, including aisle widths, induction loops, low level We are proud of the wide range of products we are able to listening posts, signage and access.
provide our customers: products that reect the broad interests In Waterstones all branches received a full health and of diverse people and cultures around the world.
We believe in safety audit, a review of the re risk assessment and an making these products available to all people who wish to have individual action plan to improve compliance.
For the first time access to them, providing we comply with legal, health and all stores completed an audit within a single year and this had a safety requirements.
Our policy regarding accessibility is positive effect on compliance standards.
Each branch was also reected in our marketing practices and store congurations.
reviewed for compliance with the Disability Discrimination Act.
Total accidents reported to the Waterstones health and Accountability and good governance safety team reduced by 12% during the period.
The health and We recognise that we have responsibilities in all areas of safety le was reviewed and updated and a new training regime our business, to many different stakeholders, not least our was devised for branches.
Compliance with health and safety investors.
We act with integrity at all times, comply with the requirements at 88.9% exceeded the target for the year.
law and are truthful in all our communication.
We have sound Objectives for HMV UK & Ireland for 2006 07 include: the systems to identify and rectify instances that could potentially reintroduction of minimum standard health and safety audits: damage the Group and or its reputation.
the introduction of electronic reporting for the monthly checklist: and development of a company car driving policy.
Progress in 2005 06 In Waterstones, objectives include: provide detailed action plans to improve health and safety compliance in Health and Safety underperforming stores: a 5% reduction in the number of The Group complies with all laws of health and safety, and accidents reported to the health and safety team: the takes all possible steps to ensure that everyone in our stores implementation of targeted initiatives to reduce accidents from and places of work is safe while there.
We aim to minimise falling books: the provision of health and safety training in accidents or other incidents while in our locations, and we are stores: the publication of a new health and safety le and committed to preventing a re-occurrence of an accident or commencement of recording of near misses.
We are committed to a system of monitoring and recording our health and safety performance, in order to enable us to improve continually.
34 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate and social responsibility continued Environmental Management To meet the needs of continuing succession planning and the We are committed to improving continually our environmental manpower requirements of the business, HMV UK & Irelands performance and, where practicable, to having measurement Fast Track to Store Manager programme was enhanced as an and reporting systems in place to help us do this.
The Group intensive four-week programme, equipping participating ensures that all of its subsidiaries comply with all relevant assistant store managers with the skills required to operate environmental laws and standards, including those particular to effectively as store managers.
The programme increases their operations.
We are committed to improving continuously awareness of the retail environment and entertainment product our environmental impact, particularly in the areas of energy, markets and is designed to enhance inter-departmental working.
Wherever possible and practicable, we look The first Fast Track programme for head ofce employees was to increase our practice of recycling and re-use.
businesses work with our suppliers to try, as a team, to reduce In Waterstones, a staff opinion survey carried out in 2004 our environmental impact and nd solutions.
Where we are able recorded an improvement in key measures, including employee to, we encourage our suppliers to be environmentally engagement, pride in Waterstones as an employer and feeling responsible in their own businesses.
significant progress was made in 2005 In HMV UK & Ireland an environment awareness on the engagement priorities highlighted by the Opinion Survey.
programme was rolled out to store and head ofce locations, In particular, there was a focus on enhancing bookseller career with the aim of assisting the implementation of environment development and progression which was highlighted as a key best practice across the business.
An Intranet-based issue in the survey.
Sustained progress was achieved in Branch Environment site was launched, containing environmental and Assistant Manager Fast Track development schemes, with information, useful tips and quick wins and a staff suggestion 66 Waterstones booksellers trained as part of the Bookseller scheme.
A head ofce recycling scheme enabled the recycling Fast Track scheme, of which a higher than expected 44% of 27.4 tonnes of paper and cardboard and 0.2 tonnes of plastic.
were appointed into management positions.
significant In Waterstones, an Environmental Committee was investment was also made in the launch of the Booksellers into established for the first time during 2005 06 and from this the Management programme, which centres on the development business produced its first Environmental Policy statement.
of managers for the future.
Alignment with this policy in all stores was ensured through the Greater awareness of Waterstones employee policies establishment of Energy Champions at store and head ofce and benets continued to result from the launch in 2004 of an locations.
Waterstones recycled 687 tonnes of cardboard Employee Handbook and HR Guide, containing comprehensive during the year.
policies around bullying and harassment, whistle-blowing, Objectives for 2006 07 in HMV UK & Ireland include: the family-friendly policies, business and purchasing ethics roll-out to all stores of an energy consumption monitoring and time off for community activities for religious reasons.
scheme: a recycling scheme for cardboard and plastic in all The company responded positively to an increase in requests, stores: introduction of environmental key performance following publication of the Handbook and Guide, for exible indicators to business reporting structures: and the inclusion of working as part of the commitment to family-friendly policies.
an environmental module within the Continuous Development Programme for employees.
In Waterstones, environmental Community affairs targets include: training and direction for Energy Champions to The Group provides from time to time financial donations achieve reduced energy use at all locations: extension of current or practical help in the form of expertise or use of Company recycling programme to all branch locations: engage publishers facilities to non-profit-making bodies and ofcial charities.
on the issue of paper sourcing from sustainable sources and Areas include education, research, the arts, community health explore joint opportunities for recycling items unsold.
and welfare, innovation and the environment.
We do not donate to any political party or religious group.
We work with Human Resources community groups to provide access to our products by people The Group does not discriminate on any grounds, including: who nd accessibility difficult, through disability.
gender, age, marital status, sexuality, race, colour, religion, In 2005 06 HMV UK & Ireland sponsored the NME Awards, nationality, disability, HIV status and unrelated criminal NME New Music Tours, in support of new music and emerging convictions.
We encourage learning and development and talent, the Mojo Honours Awards, in recognition of the outstanding are committed to providing opportunities for all employees.
contribution made to the Arts by heritage artists, and the Classic We also understand that work is one aspect of an employees FM Chart Show in support of Classical & Speciality Music.
responsibilities in life and that there may at times be a conict Through the 12th Annual HMV Football Extravaganza, regarding time availability between work and family needs.
sponsorship of the Silver Clef Best New Music Award and other Wherever possible, we work with employees to provide activities, HMV UK & Ireland raised in excess of 600,000 for exibility and appropriate leave arrangements.
We believe in its main nominated charity, Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy and open communication and provide a range of opportunities for supported the BRIT School for Performing Arts by organising a employees to provide feedback, directly to their manager, or store visit and student presentation.
We aim to always communicate Waterstones continued to work with its chosen charity, quickly and openly regarding the results of staff surveys.
Dyslexia Action the former Dyslexia Institute and produced, In 2005 06 HMV UK & Ireland continued to advance its funded and published the Short Story Book, a collection of short equality and diversity programme, and all head ofce and store stories written by teenage authors and the winners of a writing managers attended a one-day Fair Play workshop with the aim competition launched in collaboration with Bliss Magazine.
of raising awareness of equality and diversity issues in the All proceeds from the sale of the book 24,500 were donated workplace.
A feedback session was incorporated into each of to Dyslexia Action, and a further 51,400 was raised for Dyslexia these workshops and a Fair Play Working Party was set up to review Action through the sale of charity Christmas cards, in-store feedback and begin development of an action plan in response collections, the Waterstones Tracey Emin Auction, a fundraising to issues raised.
This Working Party will present findings to the ball and employee participation in the London Marathon.
Managing Director, who chairs activities in this area, and the Waterstones also provided PR support for Dyslexia Awareness Human Resources Director.
Ongoing elements from the workshop Week 2005. will be incorporated into management training.
Objectives for 2006 07 include, in HMV UK & Ireland, Re-accreditation of Investors in People was received, continuing support for Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy through following a series of interviews with employees at all levels of the HMV Football Extravaganza and Silver Clef Awards and HMV UK & Ireland.
Feedback from interviews was highly positive support for the arts and encouragement for the development of and supported re-accreditation.
new music through sponsorship programmes with NME, Mojo During the year, HMV UK & Ireland reviewed all aspects of Honours and Classic FM.
Waterstones will continue to work exible working in the expectation that a greater number of partclosely with Dyslexia Action, and planned activities include time roles will be available to reect the employment market developing the Dyslexia Awareness Week and encouraging and and business requirement for exibility at peak trading periods.
developing fundraising activity with booksellers.
Support is also planned for the Childrens Party in the Palace National Literacy Trust Book Pool, through the distribution of 12,000 books to children without regular access to books.
