Corporate and Social Responsibility s suc ucc cess ess......... our employees are key to the current and future success of Homeserve...
It is recognised that part of Homeserves future Our annual management conference provides success will depend on taking into account the an opportunity to bring together the key interests of all of the stakeholders in our business influencers from all Homeserve businesses including employees, customers, shareholders and and was particularly useful as a mechanism for the wider community.
Homeserve is committed to communicating the important messages arising improving its corporate responsibility activities and from the rebranding of the businesses under the will continue to report on them.
We recognise how important it is to offer a Employees career path for our people.
Our performance Our employees are key to our success.
The management review process includes discussing decision to appoint a Group HR Director in personal development plans so training needs January 2006 supports our aim of becoming a can be identified, supported by our training teams recognised employer of choice.
We aim to attract, in each business.
A key focus is to support the develop, retain and motivate the best people to training of our service engineers to ensure they ensure we achieve our business objectives.
have not only the skills required to perform the task, but also to understand how to deliver As Homeserve develops we place even greater exceptional customer service.
In addition to the emphasis on our channels of communication.
programmes already in place, we intend to develop Holding employee meetings ensures we keep our apprenticeship schemes during the coming year.
teams apprised of business developments, allows us to gain feedback from them, and act upon this in For our management population, development a timely manner.
Homelife our in-house magazine, plans are more personalised to individual needs.
is produced quarterly and is sent to all employees.
By nurturing and developing our talent pool we This contains business news from across the Group have succession plans in place and are able to fill as well as featuring updates and personal interest senior management roles in line with our growth articles about our people.
Homeserve plc 31 Corporate and Social Responsibility We believe in sharing the success of the business Corporate objectives and standards with our people.
A Save As You Earn Scheme Homeserves strategy for health and safety is operated across the Group and is a great promotes compliance with minimum standards to mechanism for involving our employees in achieve corporate objectives.
and Safety Adviser supports the businesses in formulating policy and in developing health and All employees are offered membership of a safety management systems to meet statutory pension scheme with staff presentations being used obligations and to protect employees and others where operationally possible to encourage full affected by our activities.
discussion of this important issue.
Access is also provided to independent financial advice where Our businesses operate autonomously in required.
accordance with local health and safety policies and procedures.
Each business has appointed a Homeserve GB featured for the fifth year in a row board member to act as champion for health and in the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to work safety at board level, overseeing arrangements for for.
It ranked 73rd this year which is an excellent the effective implementation of working practices result for a business where a high proportion which meet or exceed statutory requirements.
of staff work in a call-centre environment which Andrew Belk is the nominated Board director traditionally has a poor reputation for employee responsible for reporting on health and safety.
Feedback from the survey is reviewed and allows us to continue to improve the working environment.
Health & Safety Homeserve remains committed to high standards of health and safety across its business activities.
A consistently good safety record is achieved through strong leadership at board level, robust health and safety management systems, the active involvement of employees, and the routine monitoring and audit of safety performance.
The financial and other positive business benefits from fewer lost time injuries and reduced risks and liabilities are self-evident.
Report & Accounts 32 Homeserve plc 33 Corporate and Social Responsibility Compliance is monitored against minimum Over the past year, a significant reduction in corporate standards through routine internal Homeserves overall exposure to risk has resulted health and safety audits at Group level, which from greater attention at Board and senior evaluate performance in 15 key areas: management level to health and safety systems and procedures.
Areas of greater risk continue to be Health and safety management given priority.
Risk assessment and control Plant and equipment Performance Employee information and consultation Homeserve has continued to maintain a good Use of hazardous substances standard of health and safety performance Personal protective equipment throughout 2005 6.
There were 78 recorded Fire and security incidents requiring first aid, hospital treatment or Incidents and injuries time lost from work: most involving cuts, bruises Monitoring and reporting or muscular strains.
Of these, 38 were sufficiently Welfare and the working environment serious to require a formal statutory report to Training and competence HSE, although none resulted in life-threatening Safety of the public and special risks or disabling injuries.
Most of the more serious Occupational health incidents involved cuts in the Glass and Locks Working time business, and a campaign is currently being Control of contractors mounted to focus on the prevention of such injuries in future.
An ongoing programme of audits identifies areas for improvement.
Priority action programmes These incidents resulted in 498 working days lost are developed for each business, with progress through absence, slightly higher in total on the monitored and reported to individual boards.
previous year but lower as a rate per employee now 0.05% of the working days available.
Good health and safety performance requires both Unsurprisingly, 94% of the incidents and 82% of the commitment and competence of managers the total lost working time occurred within the and the engagement of employees.
progress has been made in training operational managers in safety management.
Local health and safety committees help raise the profile through employee involvement and ownership.
Report & Accounts 34 Corporate and Social Responsibility Reportable Incident Rate for Homeserve With adjustment for employee numbers and over the past 5 years together with excluding the now disposed of commercial comparable industry sector statistics businesses from the statistics, the Reportable Incident Rate remains consistent with the 12.0 commendable trend of recent years, comparing favourably with an aggregated statistical average from the relevant industry sectors.
10.0 There were no statutory enforcement notices and 8.0 no prosecutions against any Homeserve business.
Visits made by HSE and Local Authority inspectors to Homeserve Claims Management and to several 6.0 branches of the Glass and Locks business, and by Fire Officers to Homeserve Warranties and Chem-Dry found either no deficiencies, or a few 4.0 minor non-compliances which were satisfactorily addressed within the required timescale.
2.0 Progress and developments 0.0 New acquisitions 2001 2 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 Potential acquisitions are subjected to thorough health and safety scrutiny at due diligence stage Total Homeserve Group to assess any future operational or liability Aggregated industry sector average implications, and identify priority actions.
The acquisition of Improveline was completed during Aggregated Industry Sector Average based on statistical the year.
A review undertaken shortly after the data from the service and construction sectors aggregated in acquisition highlighted a few areas for attention, proportions similar to those represented within Homeserve businesses.
including a need to develop greater management ownership of health and safety procedures rather than to rely on external consultants.
Immediate action was taken on acquisition, with the recruitment of a full time Health and Safety Manager now in progress.
An action plan for addressing the remaining issues is in place.
Homeserve plc 35 Corporate and Social Responsibility Health and safety management training Publicity Excellent progress has been made on the provision The activities of listed companies are inevitably of health and safety training for key managers.
under public scrutiny by HSE and others because Within the Emergency Repair division, where of their greater visibility and recognisable branding.
the risks are greater, over 50% of managers have The recent publicity given to Homeserves work now completed safety management training to through the BBC TV series of Disaster Masters the IOSH Managing Safely or equivalent standard.
programmes drew a number of comments, both Courses are planned for the remainder throughout favourable and critical.
Following screening of 2006, with a pooling of arrangements to help the second series, HSE inspectors raised some maximise cost-effectiveness.
questions over the glazing practices and ladder use depicted in some scenes.
After a formal reply to Work at Height the issues raised, it was pleasing to note that a very The Work at Height Regulations have had a favourable response was received, indicating that significant impact on some of the businesses in the HSE were completely satisfied with the information Emergency Repair division, prompting a thorough provided and assurances given.
Close monitoring review of working practices.
They have required of site activities continues to ensure that working more robust risk assessment procedures, the methods and practices remain consistent with greater use of platforms and access equipment statutory requirements and good industry practice.
for work at height, and more effective measures to prevent falls where the use of ladders is unavoidable.
Group Health and Safety Forum A new Group Health and Safety Forum was established during the year.
Quarterly meetings of representatives from each business are chaired by the Group Health and Safety Adviser to promote common standards and practices, to pool ideas and expertise, and to share practical health and safety solutions across all of our businesses.
The benefits from this initiative are already in evidence.
Report & Accounts 36 corporate and social responsibility Homeserve plc 37 Corporate and Social Responsibility The Way Ahead Health and safety is fundamental to Homeserves The primary focus for 2006 7 continues to be on continuing success.
The promotion of good audit, and on reviewing progress in areas already working practices consistent with cost-effective identified for attention.
The consolidation of measures to ensure compliance with statutory existing systems and procedures and sharing of requirements and good industry practice remains a best practice will also feature strongly in the years key focus for future activity.
Priorities include: Customers Post-acquisition support for the newer Excellent customer service is key to Homeserves businesses to assist integration into Homeserve.
We aim to ensure that all customers enjoy Continued quarterly reviews of overall risk a high quality service.
Homeserve GB attempts evaluation across the businesses in the light of to call all customers within 48 hours of a claim to the ongoing audit programme and progress ensure they were fully satisfied and this initiative in implementing actions to address areas of is also being rolled out across some of the other weakness.
Assisting each business to greater autonomy Satisfaction rates for Homeserve GB consistently and maturity in local health and safety expertise.
run at above 90% and any dissatisfaction expressed Continued development of safety management on these calls is followed up with both the systems through improved management customer and the engineer where appropriate.
Attention to the ongoing programme of health A noteworthy measure of satisfaction is that and safety audits.
customer retention, already high, is higher amongst Promoting the sharing of experience and those customers who have recently made a claim practical solutions through the Health and than those who have not.
We recognise that our Safety Forum.
customers have diverse needs and are committed to developing procedures to meet them.
One Our companies continue to improve in health initiative is the development of documentation in and safety competence and expertise.
Instances alternative formats, such as braille and large print.
of significant non compliance are few, and are We are committed to maintaining and improving addressed promptly when highlighted through customer service levels across the Group and audit.
Overall practices are considered appropriate procedures are constantly reviewed and refined.
to the nature and level of risk within each business.
Report & Accounts 38 Corporate and Social Responsibility We use a variety of channels to sell our products Community and Charitable Giving and services and seek to apply the same high Homeserve is committed to assisting charities that standard of care to all of them.
Particular care is have a direct impact on the communities in which taken in outbound sales to ensure that customers its businesses operate.
gain a full understanding of the service being provided and all outbound sales calls are recorded We encourage employees to support charities and the recordings retained.
of their choice and they can contribute to those charities in a tax efficient manner through the Give As You Earn Scheme.
Environment Homeserve and its businesses are committed Employee support for high profile charity to environmental sustainability.
Our businesses campaigns is also encouraged and during the year, are largely service based and therefore their employees at Homeserve GB in Walsall organised exposure to environmental risk is low.
However, a number of fund raising events for Cancer we recognise that Homeserve has a responsibility Research UK including a sponsored slim, dress to act in a way that respects the environment down days and a celebrity ball.
and as such, all our businesses are encouraged to incorporate an awareness of environmental issues As a large employer, Homeserves businesses into decision-making processes.
can offer a great contribution to the efforts of the Blood Donor campaigns and this is regularly Recycling of office materials is encouraged and promoted to staff.
local initiatives are devised to help staff take a more responsible view of resources such as the Being a responsible corporate citizen within our recycling of toner cartridges.
Where the business communities is valued by our staff and by potential is not exclusively office based such as Homeserve recruits to the company.
Homeserve operates a Emergency Services, efforts are undertaken to generous local sponsorship programme offering manage and recycle waste such as PVC and glass.
financial support to school, sports or charity projects that benefits the community in areas of either education, health or issues of well being.
In addition, funds were made available to a number of community sports teams nominated by employees.
