Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR In this section: Wood Energy Waste Employee responsibilities Health & Safety Charity and local support 2006 was a year of transformation.
We concluded the sales of MFI Retail and Hygena Cuisines and closed three factories making electrical products, kitchen fascias and sofas.
Our main areas of operations are now: 382 Howden Joinery depots nationwide across UK: 11 in France Four Howden Kitchens factories one at Runcorn, one at Howden and two at Hull Three distribution centres two at Northampton, one at Howden 155 lorries 6,360 employees We set out in the report below our corporate and social responsibilities as we see them and how we have performed those responsibilities over the year.
Wood Manufacturing As you would expect of a company that makes and sells kitchen products for builders, wood plays a central role in what we do.
Approximately 80% of the raw material we In 2006 we used more than 380,000 cubic metres of chipboard, use in manufacturing is wood or wood fibre, and we always try to source wood in a 20,000 cubic metres of MDF, 59 cubic metres of solid wood and way thats good for the business and for the environment.
8,500 tonnes of cardboard packaging Our preferred option is to buy wood which is accredited by either the UK Forest Stewardship Council FSC or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC schemes.
These respected independent schemes enable us to source wood and paper products from suppliers that use sustainable methods to manage their forests.
In 2006, 100% of the wood and the cardboard packaging we used in our manufacturing processes came from accredited sources.
Bought-in product We monitor all our finished goods suppliers whether in the UK, Europe or elsewhere in the world to make sure the FSCs requirements are met throughout the entire sourcing process what is often known as the chain of custody.
In 2006 we audited a number of key Italian suppliers and all met our chain of custody requirements.
In 2006 we conducted our first CSR audit on our Asian suppliers, with a particular emphasis on social and environmental issues.
The findings were encouraging, with controls well ahead of the minimum expectations.
We will continue to check on standards and ensure our suppliers throughout the world operate in a fair and sustainable way.
26 Galiform Annual Report 2006 Energy We are constantly looking for more opportunities to reduce our energy consumption and emissions.
Electricity, gas and fuel consumption result in the emission of CO2, a gas that many governments and organisations believe contributes to climate change, so our levels of emissions are an important measure.
In 2006 our CO2 emissions totalled 84,600 tonnes a substantial reduction from last years figure of 112,300 tonnes.
There are two key reasons for this improvement in emissions first, we closed three manufacturing operations and, second, a number of our energy saving initiatives proved effective.
In 2006 our remaining manufacturing sites were re-awarded the Institute of Energys prestigious Energy Efficiency Accreditation, and we have now been accredited continuously for more than ten years.
In 2006 we introduced a new transport management system that has made our fleet of vehicles more efficient.
We achieved recognition for our environmental management this year, with our score in the Business in the Community BITC Business in the Environment index winning us premier league status for the first time.
We were also re-accredited for the respected FTSE4Good index.
Through our relationship with BITC, we took part in the Yorkshire & Humberside Environmental Leaders Group.
This has enabled us to work alongside like-minded organisations to encourage businesses throughout the region to take a more active approach to environmental issues.
Waste This is produced from a combination of manufacturing, distribution, retail and We now use manufacturing waste trade operations.
We keep looking for efficient ways to use or dispose of our waste.
to produce compost and we run eight biomass boilers that burn waste to heat our factories We created a total of 67,000 tonnes in 2006 and recycled more than 75% of this, a further increase on our 2005 recycling rate of 60%.
By reducing the waste we sent to landfill we managed to avoid producing almost 40,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions in 2006.
Employee responsibilities CSR is about people as well as operations.
We take our responsibilities as an employer very seriously and have done a great deal to strengthen the culture and management within Howden Joinery and Howden Kitchens during a time of great change in the business as a whole.
Galiform Annual Report 2006 27 Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR continued Howden Joinery Within Howden Joinery, the Respect for all programme we launched in 2004 is enabling us to gain a good understanding of our people as individuals and to develop effective ways to attract and develop great employees.
Training and development is critical to this, and our job is to provide employees with plenty of opportunities to develop their skills, knowledge and experience.
In 2006 we invested more than 3m in over 37,000 hours of training and development for employees within Howden Joinery.
In 2007 we are introducing a new workshop to help our managers better manage difficult situations, address and avoid harassment and bullying in the workplace and find ways to avoid any unnecessary pressure being placed on employees.
We already run forums where employees can discuss ideas and issues.
There is one fundamental theme running through all of these initiatives how we can improve the way we serve our customers.
This is vital to the success of the business We talk about how we serve our customers in more detail on page 8 and everyone in it.
Howden Kitchens 2006 was a year of major transition for Howden Kitchens with a fundamental reorganisation of the way we operate, the closure of both our Stockton and Scunthorpe manufacturing sites, and a raft of other changes taking place.
We took both our statutory and moral obligations to our colleagues very seriously, and made sure that they were fully consulted and supported.
This commitment included setting up a professional outplacement programme to help our people find a new job, with on-site job shops and redundancy counselling.
The best measure of the quality of these colleagues and our relationship with them is that they responded by consistently hitting and frequently outperforming their production targets during the run up to the closures.
Health & Safety The managers and directors in our operating companies Howden Kitchens and Howden Joinery are responsible and accountable for the health & safety of their employees.
Each of the operating company boards reviews its own strategy, issues and performance on a regular basis.
There were 174 reportable health and safety incidents in 2006 28 less than last year on a continuing operations basis.
That means we met our target of reducing incidents by at least 10%, although it is still 174 incidents more than we would like to report, and we will keep working to find ways to reduce incidents.
In 2006 we also set a target for a 30% reduction in the hours lost due to injury, in line with government guidance.
We achieved a 29% reduction and will work to better this in 2007.
28 Galiform Annual Report 2006 In total, we were given three improvement notices this year, no prohibition notices and had no prosecutions by the Health & Safety Executive or the Environment Agency.
Our occupational health service is developing the services it provides to employees and in 2006 we introduced a proactive approach to the area of ergonomics.
This will help employees to avoid injury and unnecessary strain, and to work in the most effective way.
Charity and local support Howden Kitchens makes a contribution to the community.
We consulted with our employees across the manufacturing and logistics sites within the UK and, as a result, supported around 50 local charities with donations in total of 26,600, together with services in kind.
Howden Joinery is a national network of local businesses and each depot is very much part of the community it serves.
This year our depots made more than 1,200 donations to local good causes, with some 350,000 in cash and products given.
This included donations of joinery and kitchen equipment to local schools, village halls, care homes see below, local youth groups and sports clubs or cash donations to purchase equipment and employee fund raising initiatives.
Leonard Cheshire is a key community partner for us.
The foundation is heavily The Leonard Cheshire mission is to change attitudes to disability reliant on volunteers to provide services to disabled people in the UK and needs to and to support the needs of disabled people around the world recruit more than 1,000 volunteers a year from local communities to maintain this support.
With this in mind, we funded a volunteer recruitment programme for Leonard Cheshire, including a national road show that visited schools, colleges and community organisations.
Our depots also raised money by selling their World Cup key huggers and two employees gained sponsorship by running marathons.
Already 15 employees have signed up to run for Leonard Cheshire in the 2007 London Marathon.
As I mentioned in my Chief Executives business review, two years ago we recognised an opportunity to work with Leonard Cheshire to research and develop an affordable, attractive and practical kitchen product for people with physical disabilities.
Since then we have created, donated and installed ten kitchen activity centres in Leonard Cheshire homes.
This has become an area of research with significant potential for ongoing product development, and our new Inclusive range of bespoke products has been launched in the depots.
Summary We have shown good progress in all areas on the previous year and this demonstrates our ongoing commitment to improving all areas of corporate and social responsibility.
Matthew Ingle Chief Executive 6 March 2007 Galiform Annual Report 2006 29
