responsible business responsible business we take our responsibilities seriously... them to meet the introduction of ever tighter emissions We take very seriously our responsibilities to the local and regulations.
global environment and to all the communities in which we operate.
We believe that this attitude sometimes referred to Legislation will continue to impact responsible business as Corporate Social Responsibility or CSR impacts positively management in all territories, with frequent changes across the majority of policy areas eg, health & safety, environmental, on profitability, returns to shareholders, reputation and growth.
Some, like those mentioned A rigorous management system of priorities, policies and above, bring clear and substantial opportunities for IMI measures ensures that our social, environmental and economic companies, but we continue to monitor regulatory proposals issues are aligned and integrated with every other aspect of and legislation wherever it may impact our business.
We call this responsible business.
Supporting our customers priorities In 2006 IMI plc was again selected for inclusion in the Our businesses actively consider responsible business issues as FTSE4Good index.
IMI has also taken part in the 2006 Index of part of product development and in the discussions that take Corporate Environmental Engagement conducted by Business place with key customers in support of their CSR objectives.
The results will be published on our website Global concerns relating to energy issues and climate change, www.
com later in the year alongside our other whether driven by legislation or not, have a positive impact on environmental performance information.
customer demand for our products and services - many of In March 2006, encouraged by our progress in managing which are clearly dedicated to energy efficient operation.
responsible business issues, and to provide further external Understanding issues affecting customers in the aluminium visibility of IMIs intentions and commitment in this area, smelting industry, for example, has enabled our Norgren we signed up to the United Nations Global Compact UNGC.
business to design a Smart crust breaker system that not only The UNGC encompasses ten individual commitments, delivers energy savings - in the case of one South African within four core areas of Human Rights, Labour Standards, customer of up to 1m annually - but also helps to prevent the Environmental and Anti-Corruption.
release of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.
Legal compliance A solenoid operated fragrance dispense system developed For IMI, legal compliance is fundamental.
The key issue in for another Norgren customer replaces a conventional this priority is to identify, monitor, and forecast legislative motorised cam system, potentially saving up to 1 million developments in order to maximise opportunities and minimise batteries over a period of ten years, dramatically reducing risks.
We believe that our embedded processes enable us to costs as well as potential environmental impact.
do this increasingly effectively across the whole range of Skillfully designed water management valves help Norgren responsible business issues.
customers like Envirofresh, Ecoflo and Cystemiser provide their Our TA and Heimeier businesses, for example, are making a customers with up to 25% savings in water usage, while other significant contribution to realising the goals of recent projects with Ecoflo, Kohler and Vectair are seeking additional government initiatives in Poland and The Czech Republic aimed ways to reduce water consumption by isolating domestic water at managing the energy consumption of buildings more systems when not required, and enabling domestic appliances effectively.
Similar legislation is anticipated in many other like showers to operate at reduced water pressures.
In commercial truck markets across the world Norgren assists its customers with technologies that enable 24 Responsible business Responsible business priorities and objectives To manage business efficiency opportunities and threats We continue to strengthen our already firm commitment to within IMI and our suppliers.
working in ways that are more sustainable and take account of To improve our suppliers understanding and actions in the all stakeholders, including future generations.
Processes to area of Responsible Business.
deliver our four responsible business priorities and associated Energy efficiency objectives are increasingly well embedded across all our To minimise our energy use relative to our sales.
Successful implementation of these priorities, To minimise our impact on the environment principally objectives and policies will ensure that IMI maximises its emissions of CO2.
opportunities and minimises its risks related to these issues.
To minimise the cost of energy use to improve profitability.
Objectives Legal compliance To take advantage of business opportunities associated with energy efficiency.
To improve transparency of IMIs legal compliance mechanisms.
To anticipate changes in legislation to ensure continued IMIs detailed policies, on the following subjects, compliance, minimise the cost risk of implementation while can be viewed on the Companys website: achieving full compliance and maximise potential commercial benefits arising from legislative change.
Responsible Business Corporate Social Responsibility Ethics Supporting our customers priorities Legal Affairs and Compliance To take advantage of business opportunities arising from Health, Safety & Environment customer priorities.
Corporate Governance To work proactively with customers on responsible business Community issues that could enhance our relationship with them.
Donations To ensure that any threats arising from our customers Human Rights & Employment responsible business issues are identified and minimised.
Communications and Investor Relations Whistleblowing Supply chain manufacturing in low cost economies Supply Chain To minimise supply chain reputational risks to IMI and our customers.
For Severe Service valve customers, the scale of the plants Supply chain and manufacturing in low cost economies they operate is such that achieving even just a few fractions The manufacturing plants established by IMI in emerging economies of a percentage improvement in plant efficiency can mean have all been developed with full attention to employment, substantial benefits to the customer and the environment.
health & safety and environmental risks.
Risk control surveys The technologies of CCI as well as Truflo Rona and Orton, are conducted on a regular basis typically annually.
We now customised precisely for each application, deliver performance hold business-wide HS&E forums in Mexico as well as the UK and improvement as well as risk reduction that conventional the USA, where they have been a feature for many years.
Our procurement teams use a risk-based methodology to assess Meanwhile, the Ergon range of bottle coolers introduced by and audit suppliers as part of the supplier evaluation process.
Cornelius in 2006, provides customers in the UK pub trade In addition, IMIs Risk Control Advisor conducts regular supplier with energy consumption savings of 30% and temperatures visits and training of procurement personnel.
The value of this 3 degrees cooler than competitors products while using gases work in spreading our high standards across other businesses that do not impact the ozone layer, thus helping industry was demonstrated recently during a supplier inspection in China leaders like Mitchells & Butlers, for example, to meet their own where, of 18 areas of concern noted on the previous visit, twelve CSR targets in these areas.
had already been corrected, with actions in place to address four within a reasonable timescale and just two requiring further action.
25 IMI plc Annual Report 2006 responsible business responsible business Energy efficiency We continue our numerous links with many other educational institutions, particularly schools, across the world.
In Germany, Global pressures on energy prices have had, and will continue to for example, our Heimeier and Norgren facilities hosted visits have, an adverse impact on IMIs energy costs.
In 2006, IMIs by school children aimed at raising their understanding of gas and electricity costs increased by approximately 17.5% to industry, and in Sweden two-week placements were provided 11.4m from 9.7m in 2005 - including an average unit cost for 16 children aged 14-15 in addition to school visits for increase of 15%.
However, the overall impact of the 2006 cost younger children.
In Milwaukee, USA, DCI is helping to preserve increases has been mitigated somewhat by our on-going energy a historic building which will enable schools to meet the efficiency and procurement initiatives.
The degree of mitigation provisions of a state law requiring children to have contact with is indicated by normalising costs against sales, which shows an Native American culture.
increase of 5% as compared to 17.5%, and the 5% reduction in normalised CO2 emissions, which is shown on page 7.
Display Technologies employees remain closely aligned with the Despite some falls in spot energy prices, the long-term rising Queens Child Guidance Centre that focuses on improving the trends are clear.
Numerous projects during the last year have lives of 10,000 underprivileged children in Queens County, New focused on this issue with ideas and best practice shared York, where the business is located.
In addition to financial around IMIs operations worldwide, through such activities as contributions from the company, employees play a vital role an Energy Day held recently in the UK.
on the charitys board, on its committees and in its business planning processes, with considerable benefits for all parties Programmes targeting our internal use of energy in 2006 involved.
include those at IMIs central warehouse in Poland yielding 6% savings and DCI Marketings Milwaukee HQ yielding In Romania, Slovakia and Hungary, we provide practical support 10% savings which involve efficient lighting systems and for university level technical classes and seminars focused on automatic or master switch controls.
Even more effective was energy management systems in buildings.
This support and a programme at CCI in California which achieved a 40% energy similar seminars in China and elsewhere help to educate a saving by switching from high pressure sodium lighting to new generation of energy conscious construction engineers, fluorescent fixtures in all manufacturing areas.
Meanwhile, TA, in Sweden, has targeted its highest energy At the corporate level in 2006, partly to better align our consuming operations, particularly in the foundry, and optimised community activities with the international profile of the Group layouts to minimise energy use.
CCI has reduced particle and to improve focus on our four responsible business priorities, emissions from product painting processes by redesigning the we have begun to extend our sponsorship commitments beyond paint facilitys layout and creating separate drying and mixing the West Midlands region.
However, we continue our support of rooms.
schools and charities local to our Birmingham headquarters.
Community engagement IMI graduates are encouraged to undertake community placements during their training period, with the UK Good relationships with the local communities in which Imagineering initiative remaining a popular activity, promoting our facilities operate are important at many levels.
Our long-term relationships with Care for Children Contributions to health-related causes continue to be important www.
cn in China, an increasingly important to IMI people.
Blood donation drives are held around the world country for us, and CIDA foundation www.
org, and matching funds are made available for many team fund a business-focused educational charity in South Africa, continue raising efforts such as the 20-strong IMI HQ team that again to develop.
IMI personnel have visited orphanages in China and participated in Race for Life in aid of breast cancer research.
taken part in fundraising activities both in China and elsewhere: The charity devoted to countering the debilitating skin disease a Hong bao gift envelope scheme, sponsored by IMI, raised Epidermolysis Bullosa, DebRA, also receives substantial support 8,000 in a two month period around the Chinese New Year.
from IMI and remains, along with CIDA and Care for Children, South African students contributed to an IMI training event in one of the principal charitable beneficiaries of IMIs corporate the UK and IMI graduate trainees visited CIDA to teach creative responsible business programme.
26 Responsible business Across all our businesses, we actively encourage positive contributions to local communities and environments, while still IMI encourages technical skills and delivering the necessary business performance.
For IMI people, teamwork through a number of educational responsibility and business performance are directly, intimately, sponsorships around the world, including the First programme, led by Norgren in the and successfully, connected.
In one project in the UK, IMI supports a team at Tudor Grange School, Solihull, pictured, which has won a national model car engineering championship for each of the past four years.
