ICI and its communities Since 1990 ICI has reported reductions in energy use per tonne of ICIs Responsible Care Management System standards require each production in excess of 43%, and again in 2007 there is a specific site to engage with its local community.
At a minimum, this involves focus to improve the overall energy efficiency of our operations, regular communication with community leaders to ensure that any with cross business activity to achieve improvements.
The latest have concerns about sites impact on their neighbourhoods are addressed.
been achieved through efficiency improvements, asset rationalisation Employees at many sites also volunteer time and funds, and sites and redesigned production processes.
Many of these indicators provide facilities and funds, for community initiatives.
Since 2003, remain important not only for environmental performance but also for ICI has quantified the extent of the Groups community involvement business sustainability as energy price rises, global warming issues each year.
Cash donations to community humanitarian causes, both and regional water scarcity become more prevalent.
local and international, totalled 2.01m 2005 3.07m of which ICIs supply chain 1.71m 2005 2.44m was from the Company and the balance Product stewardship and supply chain improvements are an integral from employees fundraising activities.
Donations in kind, mainly part of Sustainability Challenge 2010.
In 2006 a revised annual product, totalled 0.26m 2005 0.14m.
Employee volunteer time product stewardship assessment was carried out by all business on Company-supported projects totalled about 17,300 hours 2005 units, in order to monitor progress and target areas for further 25,100 hours of which more than 10,700 were on Company time.
Quest made good progress in piloting a supplier The total equivalent value of donations and time was 2.53m 2005 assessment process which includes social and labour practices 3.52m, more than 172,500 equivalent hours or about 0.8 working issues as well as product stewardship and health, safety and days per employee.
During the year, it came to light that one of our Examples of activity and recognition include: small volume suppliers in Brazil was employing child labour, although they denied this.
Following investigation we ceased trading with them ICI Argentina Wine Specialty Chemicals won the 2006 ICI Chief and have worked with local NGOs to strengthen our assessment and Executive Community Involvement Award for using the ICI operation engagement processes.
as a resource to teach local children about natural sciences, chemistry and environmental care.
The Palmira site operates an ICIs corporate governance integrated energy generation and effluent treatment system.
Liquid Good corporate governance is integral to sustainable practice, and effluent is used to irrigate a eucalyptus forest which in turn provides ICIs corporate governance practices are reported on pages 38 to 43. some of the fuel for the steam-raising boiler.
The solid waste is ICIs Code of Conduct was updated in 2006.
In addition, an updated used as a soil improver for the local grape and soft fruit growing Group Antitrust Compliance Policy was adopted in 2006 and existing industries.
Waste from wine making returns as a Palmira raw antitrust training programmes have been strengthened to support the material, and the waste fruit pits are burned in the Palmira plant objectives of this Policy.
ICIs whistleblowing system, Speak Up, boiler.
The children research practical examples of recycling, continues to operate worldwide.
The system encourages open ecology and biodiversity to supplement their school syllabus: reporting and ensures anonymity for callers should they so wish.
ICI investigates the issue reported in each call 96 in 2006 and National Starchs North Kansas City plant in the USA has a number monitors the call rate in each business and region to identify trends.
of partnerships to strengthen science teaching in local schools.
They work with local industry to run specialist hands-on workshops Employee and employment principles for local science teachers, provide experimental equipment for As at 31 December 2006, ICI employed 29,130 people in more students to study genetics, and provide practical support to than 50 countries.
students in their study: An analysis of employee numbers by business and geographical area ICI Paints Maua site in Brazil is working with an environmental may be found in note 5 relating to the Group accounts.
ICI has a non-governmental organisation NGO, SOS Mata Atlntica, and mixture of unionised and non-unionised operations around the world.
Sao Paulo University to carry out a ground breaking project to ICI considers its relations with its employees to be generally good.
re-establish the forest surrounding the site as native Atlantic Forest: ICI employment principles and ICI manages its global organisations through its businesses, each ICI Pakistan was awarded the first Corporate Social Responsibility of which is responsible for determining its own employees terms National Excellence Award by Help International Welfare Trust.
and conditions and employment policies within the framework of the following Employment Principles agreed by the ICI Executive ICI and the environment Management Team.
ICI continues to set improvement objectives and report against a range of environmental parameters.
Sustainability Challenge 2010 These Employment Principles are fully consistent with the includes objectives to reduce the impact of our operations on land, commitments given in both the ICI Sustainability Report and the air and water.
Changes are measured from the new baseline year ICI Code of Conduct.
2005 and both baseline levels and results are adjusted for portfolio changes.
In 2006 we achieved: 3% energy reduction per tonne of production 2010 target 5% reduction from 2005, 2% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions per tonne 2010 target 5% but a 1% increase in water use per tonne 2010 target 10%.
We have also reduced air emissions of hazardous substances by 27% and acid gases by 8% per tonne of production.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 Business review Business review ICI Group and its businesses continued Health and safety of employees ICIs commitment is to: The health and safety of employees is a core value of ICI.
Our ensure that employees are kept informed about the issues and policy is to ensure that all activities are conducted safely and that challenges facing the business: the health of our employees is protected.
ICI sets demanding targets and monitors progress to ensure continuous progress in this area.
be sensitive to the implications of change from the perspective We require every employee, and those who work on our behalf, to of our employees: and exercise personal responsibility in preventing harm to themselves and be understanding and supportive of their needs and to seek to others.
We communicate openly with our employees about our health mitigate the effects of necessary business restructuring.
and safety activities and performance, and provide them with training to drive continuous improvement.
Communication and consultation The Company is committed to effective consultation.
It believes Development of people that knowledgeable and well-informed employees are critical to its ICI is committed to providing support to help release the full potential success and that there should be clear channels of communication of all its employees, whilst recognising that the ultimate responsibility and opportunities for dialogue on issues which affect employees for personal development must rest with the individual.
seeks to help every individual understand the personal strengths they can leverage whilst providing the support they need to grow and The principal aims of communication and consultation are to: develop further, in line with the needs of the business.
improve employees understanding of the business and its goals: Diversity increase mutual trust and commitment: Our ability to become a high-performing organisation depends on our inclusion of people who come from diverse backgrounds and who highlight any concerns which might have an adverse impact think in different ways about creating value for our customers and on the business: and stakeholders.
The individuality and creativity that every person brings allow people to contribute their opinion and experience.
to the work place is welcomed and appreciated and it is our policy that everyone should be treated in a fair, open and honest manner.
Performance and reward Pay structures for employees at all levels should be designed to ICI will provide equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of reinforce the link between performance and reward.
Employees will, their race, colour, creed, religion, gender, ancestry, citizenship, sexual wherever possible, be set performance objectives which support the preference, marital status, national origin, age, pregnancy, or any achievement of overall team and business goals, and their individual other reason prohibited by the laws of the individual countries in reward will reflect their performance against these objectives.
This will apply with respect to recruitment, promotion, compensation, transfer, retention, training, benefits, and other Reward will also recognise the prevailing business climate and the employment actions.
circumstances of the relevant local labour market.
Respect for the individual ICI disability discrimination policy It is the right of all people to be treated with dignity and respect.
ICI The working environment of a disabled person may often contain is committed to providing and fostering a working environment that barriers that affect equal integration and participation within the is free from harassment, discrimination, victimisation or bullying, and workplace.
These barriers may take the form of unadapted where all employees are treated with dignity and respect.
Verbal or equipment, physical access, or discriminatory attitudes and physical conduct that unreasonably interferes with another individuals behaviour.
By attempting to create an accessible and nonwork performance, creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive discriminatory working environment, the Company seeks to assist working environment, or adversely affects opportunities, will not be disabled people to achieve equality alongside their colleagues, tolerated.
Allegations of bullying or harassment will be taken seriously and to make a full and positive contribution.
at all levels and will be dealt with in a sensitive manner.
Unfair discrimination of any disabled worker or visitor is unacceptable Work life balance and will not be tolerated by ICI.
Allegations of disability discrimination ICI aims to create a more productive and efficient workforce that will be taken seriously at all levels and will be dealt with in a will meet business requirements while supporting employees in confidential manner.
Appropriate disciplinary action, including successfully managing their personal and family commitments.
summary dismissal for serious offences, may be taken against any employee who discriminates unfairly against a disabled person.
We aim to exploit the opportunities offered by new technologies to improve our ability to accommodate more flexible patterns of working, In order to ensure that people with disabilities in ICI obtain equality of where the nature of the work makes this possible.
opportunity alongside others, and that they are actively encouraged to contribute and realise their potential, ICI is undertaking the Our success in achieving this relies on the co-operation and shared commitments set out by the UK Employment Service to become a responsibility of the Company and its employees, who are partners Disability Symbol the Symbol user and is subscribing to the initiative in the process of managing the balance of work life issues.
Positive About Disabled People, a  framework Organisational change for developing good practice in relation to disabled people.
As a Change is an important and inevitable feature of the world in which Company, ICI is committed to improving work and career opportunities we live, and responding positively to change is vital to our success for all its employees, and the Symbol supports this for both current and growth as an organisation and as individuals.
From time to time, and future employees, some of whom may have a disability.
this will also include changes to the structure of our businesses.
20 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
