Sustainability ICI made good progress against our sustainability strategy in 2006.
During 2006, ICI further embedded sustainable practices into the We continue to work with customers to understand their expectations way we do business.
We have expanded the scope of the activity of us as a supplier in contributing to their sustainable performance, well beyond our historic focus on safety, health and environmental particularly in developing products that have sustainability benefits improvement, although these remain central to the way we operate.
which can be a competitive differentiator.
Our Paints business is Through a strategy approved by the Board and launched in 2006 working with a major customer and Forum for the Future, a called The ICI Way, we have integrated the essential components sustainability charity, on a UK Department of Trade and Industryof a socially responsible, environmentally sound and economically funded project to develop smarter ways to reduce the overall life viable business.
cycle impact of decorative paints.
The ICI Way includes: We also are extending our own supplier assessment programme, using the principles of the UN Global Compact, to ensure compliance enhancing our existing corporate governance and auditing processes: with broader social standards as well as ICIs own product stewardship incorporating sustainable concepts into our customer relationships standards.
Following our pilot, we will plan how to assess all key and our product innovation processes: suppliers against these standards on an ongoing basis.
formalising our engagement approach and long-term relationships ICI had the need for careful risk assessment of suppliers reinforced with key stakeholder groups, including Non-Governmental when a small supplier in Brazil was found to be employing children Organisations NGOs, regulators, employees and communities: on its site.
ICI has ceased trading with this supplier and is working with local NGOs which help companies address this issue.
ensuring a safe and healthy, as well as a stimulating and rewarding workplace for our employees: and ICI made progress during 2006 in developing our employees capabilities in line with corporate strategy.
For example, we are improving our environmental footprint, especially in our long-term preparing to staff our new China Technology Centre CTC, currently goal to eliminate all emissions of hazardous materials.
under construction in Shanghai, by recruiting science graduates from Specific objectives are set out in our fourth set of five-year Chinas top universities and posting them to our existing key research programmes to achieve continuous improvement in sustainability and development centres in the US and UK to gain experience in Sustainability Challenge 2010.
They will then transfer to the CTC which will be an important research hub within ICIs global R&D network.
Key areas of activity in 2006 included revision of the ICI Code of Conduct to reflect best practice.
During 2007, all employees ICI remains in the upper quartile of peer companies in our comparator worldwide will be trained in the new Code through workshops and group, the American Chemistry Council, for employee health and online programmes, with additional training in antitrust law for all safety.
Although our performance continues to improve we are behind appropriate staff.
With great regret we report two contractor fatalities on our sites during 2006 the first fatalities Although our Operations manufacturing Board launched a Companyinvolving operations, rather than motor vehicle incidents, since 2000. wide energy reduction project in 2006 as part of our goal to deliver We always extract learning from these incidents and clearly must not continuous improvement in our environmental impact and operating lose the focus required to ensure our employees and contractors are costs.
The focus is on medium-sized sites, with each site setting safe at work.
stretch improvement objectives ahead of our Challenge 2010 target of a 5% energy reduction per tonne of production between 2005 However, overall, we made substantial progress in our sustainable and 2010. development in 2006.
We are also pleased to report that for 2007 ICI has retained its place on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, as well as on the FTSE4Good Index.
More information on our 2006 sustainability performance will be available from May 2007 in the ICI Sustainability Review, with more detail available on ICIs corporate website, www.
com sustainability 2003 2004 2005 2006 Newly appointed CEO John McAdam announces The Company achieves all four Nationals Electronic Materials ICI establishes itself as a focused coatings, a new strategy, with an emphasis on differential strategic objectives, delivering on business expands operations in adhesives, starch and specialty polymers investment in high growth regions or product its cash target ahead of schedule.
Asia, opening a new full service business with the sale of Uniqema and the markets and four principal financial targets.
