Research and development With the steady growth of ICIs business in China, the provision The Technology Leadership Team, comprising the senior business R&D of technical capabilities in that region is of increasing importance.
managers and leaders of key ICI Technology areas, and led by the Product development laboratories have been established for Paints Senior Vice President of Technology, is responsible for the development and the divisions of National Starch.
In addition, in 2006 we of the Groups technology strategy and its implementation by the R&D committed to the creation of an ICI research laboratory in Shanghai staff employed by the Groups businesses.
In 2006, expenditure on to work as part of our central applied research network.
Ground was R&D in the continuing businesses, excluding Technical Service, broken in the autumn of 2006, recruitment is progressing well and the amounted to 88m 2005 82m.
This expenditure represented laboratory is expected to be fully operational by the end of 2007.
Sustainability and SSHE Each of the Groups businesses is responsible for driving innovation ICI operates according to the triple bottom line of sustainability: to meet the needs of its customers and markets.
The business economic, social and environmental.
A Group Sustainability Policy innovation teams are complemented by a central applied research was adopted in 2002, and the sustainability strategy is an integral resource that aims to provide world-class capabilities that are common part of the Groups business strategy, setting out specific indicators to all the businesses.
The Groups distributed technology network of progress across key activities in all three areas.
Since 1990, ICI has draws on the expertise across ICI, allowing new products and set out five-year Challenge programmes with objectives to deliver processes to be developed and exploited by individual businesses continuous improvement in these activities.
Results for each objective more rapidly, and stimulating new options from the combination of are reported in full every year on ICIs corporate website the technical capabilities of the Groups different businesses.
The Groups prime science and technology areas of materials An Executive Director is responsible at ICI Board level for ICIs science, molecular science and measurement and modelling have sustainability activities.
A sustainability board was established in 2004. been established to support its goals for sustainable product It is made up of senior and middle managers from across the Group development for selected growth markets and to establish its who oversee the Groups sustainability programmes and is chaired by position as a leader in formulation science.
the Group Vice President, Sustainability.
Since 2003, the Group has had a Science Advisory Board which The Group has an internal recognition programme for sustainability includes leading external scientists who work with ICIs senior research excellence.
ICIs Chief Executive gives an award each year to the top executive.
The boards remit is to help challenge and develop the performing team or site in five categories: Safety, Health, Environment, Groups expertise across the breadth of rapidly changing science and Product Stewardship and Community Involvement.
ICIs Chairman technology needed in its businesses.
The Science Advisory Board chooses one of these winners to receive ICIs top sustainability has been closely involved in developing strategy in key capability award each year.
areas such as colloids and complex fluids, novel polymer design, Regulation, safety, security, health and the environment delivery systems, and filler resin systems.
The Science Advisory ICIs businesses are subject to the normal regulatory framework Board also contributes to the choice of external partners.
applicable to a specialty products and paints company, notably Materials science underpins much of the Groups product various health, safety and environmental rules both at national and development.
From such research has come the rapidly growing local levels in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The scope EASY-PAC range of cool adhesive products, where exceptional of these laws varies across the different businesses and jurisdictions.
packaging bonding ability is reached at lower operating temperatures, The various manufacturing processes require consents and licences, giving increased productivity for key customers.
Fundamental including relevant emission permits.
The Group requires full research on the material physics of filled polymer systems underpins compliance by its businesses with all relevant Safety, Security, Health the growth of the Electronic Materials business of National Starch, and Environment SSHE laws and regulations wherever it operates.
providing systems which have exceptional robustness and ICIs businesses also voluntarily conform to many international and conducting properties.
national codes of best practice.
Molecular sciences underpin several of the Groups product ICI attaches great importance to safety and health, to reducing any development activities.
This has lead to the development of new adverse environmental impact of its activities year-on-year and to latex technologies soft acrylic mini-emulsions, which allow developing products and services with improved environmental features.
formulation of premium performance water-based gloss and trim paints.
For the National Starch food ingredients business, research The main process by which the Group manages SSHE issues and has led to novel starch-based systems which allow for fat uptake seeks to meet its objectives is the Responsible Care Management during cooking and frying.
This sets out standards along with guidelines, training, auditing and procedures for reviewing and reporting These prime technology areas are underpinned by strong capabilities performance, all of which are essential to continuous improvement.
in measurement science and in modelling, both critical elements of ICIs strong formulation science base.
Efficient formulation is a multi-functional business process, and ICI is making investment in designing and implementing a world-class process and enabling tools to support knowledge transfer across ICIs businesses.
com ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 Business review Business review ICI Group and its businesses continued The system covers operations on site as well as security, product Sustainability developments in 2006 stewardship and community relations.
Lloyds Register Quality ICI has completed the first year of Sustainability Challenge 2010, Assurance Limited provides independent verification that RCMS the most recent five-year Challenge programme, which includes complies with the American Chemistry Councils new Responsible improvement goals for social, environmental and ethical issues.
Care Management System 2004 and Security Code of Management The objectives were defined in collaboration with representatives Practices 2002 as well as the UK Responsible Care Codes, the of all ICIs businesses and functions, as well as with external certifiable international standards for environmental and occupational stakeholders.
Performance against the objectives will be reviewed health and safety management systems, ISO 14001 and OHSAS18001, with external stakeholders as the Challenge period progresses.
and the ICC International Chamber of Commerce Business Charter Overall, the ICI Board is pleased with the progress made and the for Sustainable Development.
Our main sites in North America are Company has made improvements against most of the new also gaining certification to the American Chemistry Councils objectives.
Detailed results are being verified by Enviros Consulting Responsible Care Management System requirements.
Ltd and the performance results and verification statement will be available on ICIs corporate website www.
ICI works to manage and minimise the risks associated with the soil A printed summary will also be available.
and groundwater on its sites and has procedures to enable the ranking of priorities for management attention.
ICI is engaged in research aimed Social elements of sustainability encompass employee health, safety at developing and implementing more cost effective environmental and staff development as well as engagement with the communities remediation technologies, some of which is being undertaken in in which ICI operates worldwide.
collaboration with other companies and academic institutes.
ICI and safety The raw materials which the Groups businesses use and the The Company regrets that in 2006 two contractors died while products that they produce are subject to demanding regulations carrying out work for ICI.
These are the first fatalities involving concerning product safety in all parts of the world.
These regulations, operations, rather than motor vehicle incidents, since 2000.
In the which also cover product testing and risk assessment requirements, first case, a maintenance contractor in Argentina was asphyxiated are subject to review and revision, as is currently happening in Europe when he made an unauthorised entry into a silo containing nitrogen, with the REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of used as a fluidizing agent.
In the second a contractors worker went Chemicals regulations.
Following a detailed assessment process, on to the roof of a product distribution centre in Indonesia, without the Group is now implementing plans to ensure compliance when authorisation, and was fatally injured when he fell 4.5 metres onto the new European Union regulations come into force.
Both incidents were clear breaches of existing Company procedures.
Full details of the investigations, root causes In addition, there is constant pressure from legislators, customers and improvement actions have been communicated across the and the general public to reduce the environmental and health businesses, requiring each site to take action to ensure that such impacts of products throughout their life cycle.
To meet these events cannot happen again.
requirements, ICI has a product stewardship programme in place within each business.
This voluntary programme embraces, through ICI has achieved an 89% reduction in employee work-related injury robust business practices, product regulatory requirements, societal and illness rates since 1990.
The Sustainability Challenge 2010 pressures, reducing the risk of harm to people and the environment, milestone is a Total Reportable Case Rate of 0.56 by 2010 a 40% and the provision of relevant information to enable correct use and improvement on the 2005 performance.
In 2006 we achieved 0.79 disposal of products.
Manual handling issues remain a focus area for improvement.
Overall Group performance remains Anticipating external pressures and concerns and providing speedy, amongst the industry leaders, and there are some ICI sites in all innovative solutions with lower environmental and societal impact regions which have reached or exceeded the milestone of 10 years is becoming a key aspect of sustaining competitive advantage.
recognises these pressures and is responding with the introduction of new processes, products and services that improve the efficiency ICI and its people of use of raw materials and utilities and reduce adverse effects.
ICI continues to develop people capability requirements to meet its strategic objectives.
During 2006, the focus on China included the Processes are in place for regular reviews of environmental liabilities, China Academy, a programme of training and experience for general and provisions held at 31 December 2006 were in accordance with management recruits, and recruitment of scientists for the new the accounting policy described in the Group accounts on page 61.
China Technical Centre in Shanghai.
Other focus areas include ICI believes that, within the existing legislative framework and taking sales and marketing.
account of the provisions already established, the cost of addressing ICI continues to monitor the gender, ethnicity and nationality diversity currently identified environmental obligations as ICI currently views of its management population.
The data indicates that the 2006 these obligations is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on its management group of about 1,580 included 16% women.
Of the 680 financial position or results of operations.
located in North America there was a 10% ethnic minority: of the 900 During 2006, there were eight instances of breaches of environmental located outside North America there was a 53% minority nationality or product regulations which resulted in prosecutions or fines totalling defined as those born outside UK, USA or the Netherlands where our 10k.
Each was investigated and appropriate action taken.
Since 2002, the minority nationality has improved from 48%: the gender and ethnic diversity measures have remained fairly constant.
18 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
