Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility Highlights 32 Achieved all environmental performance targets set for 2010 ahead of schedule.
1 Energy consumption down by 11 per cent.
1 CO2 emissions down by 20 per cent.
2 Waste output down by 3 per cent.
2 Waste to landll down by 32 per cent.
1 Water consumption down by 12 per cent.
Achieved ISO 14001 certication at 4 more manufacturing sites.
Created significant partnerships with local NGOs, especially in the areas of the environment, malaria control and HIV AIDS.
Scored 73% 66% in 2005 in the SAM Research assessment for the Dow-Jones Sustainability Index 2006, against a sector average of 66% the highest sector score was 79%.
Named as 64th in the 2006 Top 100 Companies That Count by the UKs Business in the Community.
Scored 90% in the Business in the Community Environment Index 2005 83% in 2004, ranked 48 145.
Rating agency SERM Index Risk Management has given us the second lowest risk rating compared with five other companies in our sector.
Absolute values for financial year 2005 compared with 2001 base year.
Absolute values for waste for financial year 2005 compared with 2004 base year.
Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility 33 Responsibility is at the heart of our business Our Commitment a good corporate citizen in the compliance and to confirm the ingredients communities in which we operate.
used meet our own high standards.
Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility is encapsulated in the following Group Community Investment: to support We have reviewed our standards of care Policies which operate throughout the Group.
community activities in the geographical which we routinely operate both for the areas in which we operate, responding to assessment of ingredients used in our Corporate Responsibility: to build a sustainable and profitable business local and significant international needs, products and for our stewardship activities and to encourage employee involvement associated with leaf and smoke chemistry.
in community and charitable activity.
Non-Financial Reporting: to provide key stakeholders with appropriate non-financial Employees These policies are in turn supported by We aim to provide an environment which will information broadly in line with the Global a number of employment practices.
The attract, retain and motivate the best people, Reporting Initiative and to co-operate with Group sets out for all employees the to ensure they can maximise their potential relevant investor evaluations and indices.
boundaries of acceptable business practice and share in the Groups successes.
During Human Rights: to be guided on and the manner in which the activities of 2006 we continued to strengthen and fundamental human rights by the the Group are to be conducted.
These develop our employment practices in Organisation for Economic Co-operation policies cover, for example, anti-bribery, support of our stated aim.
and Development guidelines for anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and multinational enterprises 2000 and whistleblowing.
In this regard, our Values, Investing in future leaders to support the International Labour Business Principles, Standard for Business We view leadership development and Organisations core conventions.
Conduct and International Marketing succession planning as essential for the Occupational Health Safety and Standards are key to governing responsible sustainability of our business.
We have Environmental Management: to exercise behaviour throughout the Group.
committed significant investment into responsible care for employees and developing our managers and future leaders.
others involved in our business activities: Product Stewardship and Health During 2006, we completed a further full to minimise the adverse impact of our We monitor the science relevant to our cycle of our succession planning process.
products, activities and services on the products, to ensure that appropriate This process fulls a number of goals, natural environment and, as a minimum investigations take place and that we namely to identify critical management roles standard, to comply with any relevant anticipate and respond appropriately to within the business: scope potential internal legislation within the territories in which developments.
New products or processes successors to those roles: select and we operate.
are assessed, patented where necessary, validate prospective future leaders of the Product Stewardship and Health: to evaluated and tested before commercial Group: and identify emerging talent within understand our products: to assess prior application.
Prior to sale, any new product each function.
The Imperial Leadership to product manufacture the suitability of introductions into existing or new markets Programme ILP aims to develop current the materials used: and to ensure that are checked to ensure regulatory and future leaders of Imperial Tobacco.
developments in the science related to product stewardship and health are monitored, evaluated and appropriate We are committed to behaving as a responsible actions are taken.
corporate citizen in the communities in which Social Accountability: to conduct and we work and in society as a whole.
report our business activities with integrity and to enter such stakeholder engagement as may assist us to be Frank Rogerson, Corporate Affairs Director www.
com Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility continued Aligned to the succession planning 12.4 per 1,000 employees in 2004, 34 process, ILP facilitates the development to 11.6 in 2005.
We are saddened to report of leadership skills and competencies.
the fatal shooting of one of our drivers at an illegal roadblock in Africa.
There were no Learning and development other fatalities during the year.
We place a strong emphasis on learning As part of our three-yearly programme, and development and create opportunities we commissioned independent OHS audits for our employees to develop both as of a number of our European manufacturing individuals and as a team.
The findings from our audits, together with analysis of our accident data our people to adapt and extend their skills for the 2005 financial year, have helped us and knowledge in an ever-changing world to identify areas for improvement.
A variety of locally based initiatives are in place to support Environment the needs and circumstances of both the Good environmental management systems, business and our employees.
designed to manage local impacts and sensitivities, are an essential component Employee engagement of our strategy.
We aim to inform and involve employees in We started our ISO14001 programme understanding our business objectives and in 2001 and now have certied systems in local developments affecting their particular 59 per cent of our manufacturing sites.
The promotion of good last financial year, four of our factories have working relationships with employees, trade achieved certication: bringing the total to 19. unions, works councils and other organisations Over the last four years, we have has continued throughout the year.
improved the way we collect and report environmental data from our manufacturing Responsible restructuring facilities and main ofces.
During 2006 we We, like many companies, operate in a implemented a new software platform for highly competitive environment.
Whilst we our non-financial performance indicators, have continued to invest in incremental including our environmental measures.
employment in some areas of our business, Our environmental performance it has been necessary for us to take a indicators are showing decreasing trends number of restructuring decisions resulting in energy and water consumption, carbon in redundancies.
During 2006, we closed dioxide emissions, waste and waste to our Treforest papers factory and announced landll.
Part of the decrease in absolute the closure of our factories in Liverpool and gures is as a result of factory closures.
We have a track record of managing However, our relative indicators expressed these situations in a fair and responsible as per million cigarette equivalents are manner, and remain committed to supporting also showing downward trends, an indication our employees during any restructurings.
that our environmental management systems are improving our performance.
Occupational Health, Safety and Our climate change strategy aims to Environment reduce our direct impact by improving We have a well-established policy for energy efficiency, and to reduce our indirect occupational health, safety and environmental impacts by inuencing our partners in the OHS&E management and have made supply chain.
We have achieved the ten per significant progress in these areas.
cent reduction target we set for carbon dioxide emissions, well ahead of the 2010 Occupational health and safety deadline of the Kyoto protocol.
The occupational health and safety OHS of our employees and those working with Social Performance us, such as contractors, remains a high We are committed to behaving as priority.
Our Group lost time accident rate, a responsible corporate citizen in the for injuries resulting in more than three communities in which we operate and in days absence from work, improved from society as a whole.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Operating and Financial Review Our Corporate Responsibility Review provides further insight, including performance data on what we see as our most important issues.
Human rights our suppliers to new SRiTP guidelines that Following our donation to the Asian tsunami 35 We recognise the importance of human now have more emphasis on biodiversity crisis, we have received repeated requests rights across our operations and are aware and the safety and environmental aspects to respond to many other natural disasters.
that we operate in a number of countries of site vehicles.
Rather than respond to individual disasters, where human rights may be an issue of We are committed to working with our we have decided to support a British rapid concern.
Our human rights policy commits suppliers to encourage their compliance response charity for three years.
us to support the International Labour with international standards on child labour.
Organisation core conventions on labour We are a Board member of the Eliminating rights.
These rights are covered in more Child Labour in Tobacco Foundation.
detail in various Group employment policies.
We regard equal opportunity and Community investment non-discrimination as essential aspects During 2006, we committed 1.2 million of all our employment practices.
This does not include payments in kind, Responsible sales and marketing employee volunteering or management time.
Our policy is to supply our products on One aim of our community investment a commercial basis only to approved activity is to benefit the local communities in customers and markets.
A detailed product which we operate.
We have regional supply process is one way we help to ensure Community Investment Committees covering this.
We thoroughly investigate product our operations in the UK, Germany, Africa, diversions and take appropriate action to Asia and Australasia.
In 2006, we created mitigate the risk of any further diversion.
a committee for the Rest of Europe to We believe that tobacco products support activities in around 30 countries, are for adults.
Our International Marketing spreading from Ireland to Russia and from Standards set out clear rules and principles Scandinavia to Cyprus.
to ensure that our advertising and Our International Community Investment promotional activities are directed only Committee aims to make a long term to adult smokers in all circumstances.
beneficial impact on significant global issues We are active in youth smoking related to our business, by building long prevention programmes in several parts term partnerships with Non-Governmental of the world including the UK, Ireland and Organisations NGOs.
Our involvement is through NGOs will not accept donations from government-approved proof-of-age identity tobacco companies, in the belief that it may programmes, working in conjunction with damage their brand value or ability to raise independent bodies and trade associations.
Although saddened by this, we respect their decision Social responsibility in tobacco production and are careful to avoid supporting causes We continue to operate the Social which may be controversial in this regard.
Responsibility in Tobacco Production We have formed several partnerships Independent verifiers statement SRiTP programme in conjunction with with NGOs engaged in innovative schemes on corporate responsibility our tobacco suppliers.
SRiTP allows that address poverty, water and sanitation, The information and performance data suppliers to understand their level of in our 2005 and 2006 CR Reviews forest conservation, reforestation, performance and make improvements biodiversity and sustainable development.
is veried by SGS United Kingdom where necessary.
The programme covers Limited, using their Level One These include ongoing projects in Uganda, Corporate Responsibility policy and Sustainability Report Assurance Madagascar, Malawi and Mozambique.
management, health and safety and the protocols detailed in their Assurance Other new initiatives have focused on socio-economic, agricultural and Statement.
These assurance protocols HIV AIDS where we have partnerships at environmental impacts of growing and are based on the current best both global and local level.
During 2005, we introduced became a partner of a French NGO, which practice guidance provided by the Global Reporting Initiative and the will help us to support employees and their AA1000 Assurance Standard.
We are For more information also contributing to the global effort as new Their reports can be found in the www.
com CR Reviews and on our website.
members of the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS.
