20 Operating and financial review continued Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate and Social Responsibility Inchcape is the leading independent company strategy and direction, Working for Inchcape international automotive retailer with work life balance, communication, long-established relationships with a training and development, benefits Our success as a business depends on number of world-class brand partners, and working conditions, as well as maintaining the quality, motivation and a presence in over twenty countries, customer experience and satisfaction.
commitment of our colleagues in every and more than 10,000 colleagues Based on the results, each business puts market in which we operate.
We seek to be a trusted together an action of plan of key areas employment policies and practices and responsible member of the identified by the survey in order to help are designed to support and achieve international business community, improve Inchcape as a place to work.
and are always looking at ways to Subaru Melbourne conducted Underpinning this commitment improve our social, environmental a successful colleague engagement are the Inchcape Values.
These are and local impacts through socially survey returning a 72% engagement central to the way we work and are responsible initiatives.
rating, a gold standard performance fundamental to our relationship with Inchcape is conscious of the when benchmarked against the results of customers, brand partners and importance of Corporate Social other local organisations.
Our initiatives compiled from the colleague survey is Service have historically been managed at used to develop action plans to further We constantly seek to improve service a local level by each of our businesses improve productivity and performance.
standards for our customers and for the within the communities in which they Further surveys of other Australian companies we represent.
This approach has been business units are scheduled in 2007. valuable and much has been achieved Teamwork Employment policy in past years.
We work as a team within our individual Our employment policy is simple: We are now building and businesses, across the Group as a whole we want to attract, motivate and retain improving upon our past achievements and with our principals and partners.
the best people for our global business.
by forming a more comprehensive We strive to create a working Innovation approach to CSR.
We are reviewing best environment that encourages and We strive to remain at the forefront practices from our local and global CSR supports colleagues, reinforcing that of our industry by anticipating market initiatives, with a view to evolving our we value their contributions to the changes and developing new products social responsibility campaigns through Groups success as a whole.
The Company offers a range of We want to make socially Respect incentives including a number of bonus responsible behaviour part and parcel We respect all our stakeholders.
These and share save benefit schemes, which of who we are and how we define are our customers, brand partners, encourage colleague engagement ourselves as a Group.
This section of our colleagues and shareholders, and and is committed to ensuring a positive report looks at some of the key areas of we work hard to earn their respect.
workplace environment with equal our CSR policies and 2006 activities that opportunities for all.
As part of this Results we are proud of and that we plan to approach, vacancies are made We set ourselves challenging targets build upon, including: available internally to colleagues, and endeavour to exceed them.
Working for Inchcape via the intranet in order to encourage Colleague communications career development within Inchcape Environment, Health and Safety Inchcape is always looking for ways wherever possible.
Serving our Communities to improve comunications with its We are proud of our reputation colleagues across the Group.
There for integrity and high ethical standards, CSR at Inchcape are a number of formal and informal and have in place a Group Ethics Policy Inchcape has a Group Corporate Social colleague communications channels that provides guidance on business Responsibility CSR Committee, which within Inchcape.
A re-launch of the most ethics for our people worldwide.
is chaired by the Group Chief Executive, effective Group-wide channel, our Group We expect colleagues to conduct who has responsibility for CSR at Board intranet the Pulse, is scheduled in 2007. themselves in a manner that ensures level.
The Committee includes the Group In the UK, for the fourth consecutive the Groups good name.
Director of Risk Management and Group year, the UKs colleague survey has seen Our Whistleblowing Policy, Director Communications as well as an improvement in participation rates.
introduced in 2004, reinforces the colleague representatives.
Some 62% of all Inchcape UK colleagues Companys commitment to high took part in 2006 answering questions standards of fairness, honesty, openness about such issues as equal opportunities, and accountability.
While UK colleagues 21 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 are covered by the Public Disclosure Act Environment, 1998, Inchcape applies the principles of the Act across all its markets.
Health and Safety Training initiatives Inchcape is committed to pursuing In every market we operate, our sound Environment, Health and Safety colleagues are encouraged to develop EHS management policies and and advance their skills.
We have a practices throughout our businesses number of development programmes, worldwide.
We continually seek to for all levels of colleagues, in operation improve EHS standards in the workplace, throughout the Group.
In 2006 our and it is our policy to: colleagues participated in [26,555] monitor and manage the EHS impacts, training days.
risks and opportunities for our businesses Training initiatives in 2006 included the for the benefit of colleagues, customers, following courses and programmes.
brand partners and the local communities in which we operate: The Inchcape Academy programme was developed in 2005 in conjunction promote awareness of EHS policy with Loughborough University.
The across the business to assess its programme provides a development performance and to set practical route for our business leaders of the targets for improvement: future.
Nineteen delegates from across report on the status of the EHS the UK and Europe took part in the full performance of the businesses.
programme in 2006, with a further sixty-two attending various independent Common standards are applied to academy modules.
The academys a wide range of EHS matters, and reach grows each year, with more compliance with local statutory nominated delegates being put requirements is the minimum standard forward by the business, further we accept.
Where local standards are expanding investment in our colleagues.
below international good practice it is our policy to follow UK good practice.
Colleagues in Greece participated in a number of training courses in 2006 EHS policy, along with other Risk issues, including a programme to enhance is decided by the RMSG.
The Risk customer orientation and motivation Management Strategy Group RMSG for our retail operations.
The Lets Make is chaired by the Group Chief Executive the Customer Smile programme was and meets every three months.
developed and implemented for Polis, The RMSG is made up of senior members the Inchcape Retail Operation in Greece.
of the Inchcape Group function and The programme included on-site includes our Finance Director, Treasurer, practice with real customers for front IT Director, Company Secretary and line staff, a day of personal coaching Risk Manager.
for salespeople, and workshops for sales Our businesses worldwide carry supervisors and retail managers.
out regular inspections and produce Recognising the importance of human two risk assessment reports each year.
resources in the success of its business, The results are forwarded to the Group Inchcape Asia-Pacific implemented Risk Manager who reports any significant an ongoing series of training and issues to the RMSG Committee.
development programs, including reward and incentive activities.
In 2006, such activities further enhanced service excellence and encouraged continuous improvement throughout the Groups operations, as well as sustaining a strong sense of team spirit.
22 Operating and financial review continued Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued A key element of our approach to EHS legislation and applies a continuous is ensuring that the correct structure is in improvement regime.
place at the business group level.
The Training in the UK Retail business Group Risk Manager ensures that there The UK Retail businesses have are qualified, local EHS coordinators in enhanced their EHS induction and staff place, and that the structure of development practices to improve workplace EHS representatives or standards and awareness.
All new Committees is adhered to.
colleagues undertake EHS training and Local representatives are over 1,100 new starters completed responsible for improving and monitoring structured modular training during 2006.
EHS performance through the Health and safety co-ordinators, who development of local standards and are appointed at every business unit, staff training.
They are also responsible have also had additional EHS training.
for monitoring EHS performance, This programme, combined with and involving colleagues in local improved training and revised global environmental initiatives.
While the Group accident analyses, has helped provide Risk Manager regularly communicated a safer working environment.
EHS best practice among the local coordinators in 2006, in 2007 this New building in Australia communication will be formalised to The new Subaru and Inchcape Motors create common policy.
Australia headquarters in Sydney have The Group Risk Manager visited been constructed using environmentally 180 sites in 2006 to meet with local sustainable materials and practices.
representatives, and gave a personal The building has been designed using assessment of the EHS risk as well as the Australian Green Building Rating carrying out a risk audit.
Furnishings and fittings recommendations are made in a formal were chosen to minimise environmental risk assessment report, and action plans impact while remaining practical, are agreed and reported upon.
aesthetically pleasing and, wherever The following are some of the possible, recyclable materials were used.
EHS initiatives that have taken place For example, the office chairs are 96% during 2006. recyclable, manufactured with 42% recycled materials and contain no PVC.
AutoNexus award for recycling The AutoNexus New South Wales Greener environment and better Distribution Centre at Homebush, health and safety Australia recently received the Jean-Paul Heine, Co-ordinator of Land Care Australia SITA award for its Environmental Affairs in Inchcapes contribution to environmental protection Toyota Belgium operation, is our through recycling.
We are proud of this dedicated resource working on recognition of the Homebush teams environmental issues in the region.
effort to reduce, reuse and recycle He plays a pivotal role in ensuring their industrial waste, including paper, Toyota Belgium complies with ISO 14001 cardboard and plastics.
Reporting to Henri Dierickx, head of the Belgian Greece: Environment, health and safety Environment, Health and Safety team, Toyota Hellas is the only car distributor Jean-Paul helps to ensure we meet in Greece certified with ISO 14001 for increasingly demanding national and the environment and OHSAS 18001 European EHS legislation.
for occupational health and safety.
Our Belgian head office Toyota Hellas received the OHSAS 18001 achieved ISO 14001 certification in 2005 certification in 2006.
This colleague safety and is evaluated annually on energy system assures that all health and safety and water usage, recycling, the use risks are managed in a systematic way, of office supplies, workshop practices, that the Company complies with and our effect on wildlife and plant 23 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 ecosystems.
Jean-Paul monitors and HK$500,000 from Crown Motors hosting Serving our assesses performance and also acts of the Toyota Classics 2006 concert in as internal auditor to the Lexus dealer communities Hong Kong.
This achieved Borneo Motors Lexus Charity Golf Day With a presence in over 20 countries, ISO 14001 certification in 2005 and its raised S$50,000 for the Salem Day the Groups broad international spread environmental management system Rehabilitation Centre, which cares for has resulted in a diverse range of people, is maintained by the Lexus Aftersales the elderly.
Borneo Motors also raised cultures and lifestyles that enrich Department.
a further S$30,000 for the Students Care our company.
This system has made tracking Service by donating all registration fee our performance very efficient and With our extensive international interests, proceeds from the Toyota Camry Jean-Paul believes that maintaining Inchcape firmly believes in supporting Charity Golf Challenge 2006. it is essential in helping to identify and the many different communities and mitigate risks, and to reaching our The Toyota Great Ethiopian10K Run cultures that we operate within, often goal of reducing the operations was held in Addis Ababa in November through sponsorships and support of local environmental footprint.
2006, attracting a record 20,000 charities for local people.
In line with this, Jean-Paul is keen participants.
Our distribution business By encouraging our colleagues to to educate his colleagues about issues in Ethiopia is a major supporter of engage in the issues which affect their that effect their immediate office Africas biggest road race.
local environment, we can target funds environment, as well as their impact TM Auto Ltd. Inchcapes operation and assistance more effectively as well on the global environment.
But he in Bulgaria, received the Golden as developing a sense of personal recognises that environmental initiatives Book Award for Corporate Social involvement.
Getting involved can help cannot be forced on colleagues they Responsibility for its involvement in the colleagues gain a better understanding need to make sense, be easy to use, European Rally for People with of the communities they live in, and in and become a way of life.
Disabilities, one of its social contribution turn help us to serve our local In June 2006, our Belgian activities in 2006. customers better.
colleagues took part in Toyotas Green Month Campaign, which focused on Inchcape in the UK supports BEN, Here we outline a number of initiatives the effect cars have on the environment.
the motor industry benevolent fund.
that we have been involved in over the The initiative provided tips and This support is shown through financial past year.
information about driving more commitment, colleague time At Head Office level, we donate to efficiently, which were passed on commitment and various fund-raising one nominated charity each year to customers in a brochure available initiatives over the year.
In 2006, through a variety of fund-raising events in dealerships.
Toyota Belgium also Inchcape Retail made a business and collections.
Our  a head office team donation to BEN of over 18,200, and year in 2006 was Peach a charity awareness lunch and screened was presented with a Gold Award established to promote early An Inconvenient Truth a film about Quality Mark by BEN in recognition behavioural intervention for young climate change.
of its commitment to the automotive children with autism.
Peach received Jean-Paul is proud of what industry through payroll giving.
over 2,500 in 2006. the Toyota Belgium head office has In Greece, Toyota Hellas is among achieved with regards to EHS and is Subaru Australia raised over $6,000 the leading supporters of Open Arms, optimistic about the future.
He believes from staff and other donations for the an NGO created in 1994 to provide that individuals should try to do whatever Starlight Childrens Foundation as well support to hospitalised children and they can for the environment and as a further $20,000 from the Subaru their families.
encourage others to do the same.
Even small changes to behaviour can Each year, Inchcape in Finland donates Crown Motors Ltd is an active fundraiser make a big difference.
In 2006, a for the China Literacy Foundation Ltd Mazda 3 went to HelsinkiMissio, which CLF, and its 2006 Lexus Charity Golf supports poor and eldery people.
Day raised more than HK$20,000 in donations from Lexus owners and Crown Motors itself, which will directly support the charitys work in providing schools and educational opportunities for children in very poor parts of rural China.
