6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 24 07 11:28 Page 62 Employees International Power operates in an increasingly complex business environment.
We place a high priority on the recruitment, retention and training of staff at all levels, whether employed by us directly or by any of our subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
We value our reputation as a caring employer and seek to attract Clear communication links are critical to enhance business and and retain high calibre employees.
commercial awareness throughout our Company.
Corporate publications, the International Power website, employee awareness We endeavour to ensure that all of our staff conduct themselves briefings from executive management and team briefings are all used in a manner of the highest integrity.
to promote communications and an understanding of the development We have a number of share-based long-term incentive remuneration and application of policies and strategy.
We use the latest technology to plans that are an integral part of our strategy to reward and aid rapid communication with all staff around the world.
We operate an incentive weighted compensation scheme which Learning and development we believe rewards and develops staff on the following basis: During 2006 particular attention was devoted to the Groups learning Achievement of tangible personal objectives Annual targets are set and development strategy.
A worldwide leadership programme for for all personnel, calibrated at levels designed to ensure that individuals high-potential managers was developed in conjunction with Ashridge are able to contribute to the attainment of these objectives.
Business School in the UK.
Two programmes were run in 2006 with Professional and educational advancement We promote and 48 managers from around the Group attending.
An additional two facilitate mid-career training, internal and external seminars, personal programmes will be run in 2007. development plans and other educational programmes.
In addition, we Following a major review of all our health, safety and environmental encourage our employees to participate actively in their own personal policies and procedures, a behavioural-based safety initiative was development and in relevant professional organisations.
launched in 2006 as a way to improve power station health and safety management.
This programme, Fresh Eyes, focuses on people rather Leadership We expect our employees to exercise leadership in their dealings with colleagues, partners, customers and suppliers.
It involves a colleague or workmate observing their peers and giving feedback on safe behaviour and unsafe behaviour.
This all relies on a foundation of personal integrity and respect.
We value our reputation as a We operate an incentive weighted P P caring employer compensation scheme which we believe rewards and develops our staff We endeavour to ensure our staff P conduct themselves in a manner of We promote and facilitate career training P the highest integrity and personal development programmes We seek to attract and retain high P calibre employees 62 Employees Blackstone, Massachusetts 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 12:02 Page 63 Equal opportunities Involvement in the community The Group is committed to equal opportunities, both from a sense of The Group attaches particular importance to its programme of social responsibility and also because it makes sound business sense to community support which includes the active participation of staff.
benefit from the wide ranging knowledge and experience of individuals The Group actively supports Business in the Community and takes part in all sectors of society.
This commitment to equal opportunities means in their Companies that Count initiative in the UK, whilst in Indonesia, that decisions to appoint, reward, train, develop and promote are taken staff at Paiton are involved in supporting local communities with their purely on the basis of skills and abilities, as matched against the medical and nutritional requirements for babies.
In Pakistan, at Uch requirements of the job.
power station, support has been provided for educational, health and infrastructure projects.
Staff at Deeside in the UK, and Hub in Pakistan The Group values its reputation as a caring employer and seeks to worked together to raise money for the relief effort following the attract and retain high calibre employees.
Opportunities for training are Pakistan earthquake.
given a high priority to ensure that all individuals can contribute to their own career development.
This approach extends itself to the fair Employee share plans treatment of people with disabilities in relation to their recruitment, International Power has in place a number of share-based remuneration training and development.
plans under which employees of the Group and its subsidiary companies Diversity in the workplace may acquire shares in International Power plc.
Cultural awareness and diversity training is provided to all relevant These plans form an integral part of the Groups strategy to provide managers within the business and specific cultural awareness training appropriate reward and retention strategies for employees and, to align is provided to our employees prior to overseas assignments.
employee and shareholder interests through incentive targets based on clear financial criteria.
Executive share options have been granted to At a regional level a number of our assets are members of diversity employees in seven countries outside the UK and the Global Sharesave organisations.
Our UK assets are registered as Investors in People.
Plan is now in operation in four countries outside the UK.
As the Group Rugeley is also accredited to the Positive about Disability standard.
continues to grow and employee numbers continue to increase, we Our UK assets also have established a set of policies and procedures anticipate that the extension of share plans to overseas jurisdictions will to ensure diversity in the workplace.
This ensures equal opportunities continue apace.
are integrated into their recruitment and selection processes and subsequent employment.
The Company uses a variety of techniques for assessing applications as part of its selection process.
Where external selection techniques are implemented, the Company is at pains to ensure that the providers are able to demonstrate their methodologies are free of bias.
Internal selection processes revolve around objective assessment of the candidates insofar as they are able to meet the specification of the job.
