6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 24 07 11:22 Page 56 Corporate responsibility Our aim is to ensure that International Power is known throughout the world as a responsible, efficient and successful company.
Our stakeholders our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, regulators and host communities expect nothing less of us.
Electricity is a unique product that has the power to enhance the quality This strong commitment to CR flows from the top.
The Board is of life for people throughout the world.
Companies involved in the briefed regularly on our CR performance and we are committed to provision of this commodity must also demonstrate responsibility.
For delivering high standards of implementation throughout the business.
a global wholesale generating company like International Power, this Consequently, environmental and social considerations form part of our equates to following fair and ethical principles to govern the way we strategic decision-making process.
In those instances where we share manage and conduct our business.
It means working in a smart and ownership of an asset, we encourage our partners to adopt our CR integrated way by ensuring our key competencies, technical expertise standards and principles, typically through influence at business level and best practices are properly implemented over a widely dispersed board meetings.
and diverse range of assets to produce power, water and process heat Power production is a complex process and our assets throughout safely and cleanly.
It also means that corporate responsibility CR as a the world use different fuels and different technologies to generate specific element forms an integral part of our business decisions and electricity, heat, water or steam.
However, the way we record and contributes to our global competitiveness and reputation.
report our CR performance must be undertaken in a consistent and Establishing a sound reputation requires commitment at all levels of the transparent way.
By working to the Global Reporting Initiative and Company.
We work hard to build long-term sustainable partnerships in the Association of British Insurers reporting guidelines we, and our the communities in which we operate.
Our strategy is to provide local stakeholders, can check and compare our performance with that employment, support the local economy and act as a responsible of other power companies.
neighbour and employer whilst contributing to the improvement In 2006 International Power was ranked 44th in the top 100 companies of local health and education services.
in the Business in the Community corporate responsibility and environment index in 2005 the ranking was 48th.
Involvement in Business in the Community provides peer group recognition of our commitment to improve continually our corporate responsibility performance.
The strong commitment to corporate We record and report our corporate P P responsibility flows from the top down responsibility performance in a consistent and transparent way Corporate responsibility forms an P integral part of our business decisions and We were ranked 44th 2005: 48th in P contributes to our global competitiveness the top 100 companies of Business in the and reputation Communitys corporate responsibility and environmental index for 2006 56 Corporate responsibility Al Kamil, Oman 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:53 Page 57 Procurement Our procurement will be conducted so that any supplier Guidance that has the necessary abilities to be of service to us has a fair Our aim of improving and developing CR is aided by the provision opportunity to secure our business.
of policies which help provide guidance.
Our CR policies include: Whistle-blowing International Power encourages employees or others Business standards with serious concerns about any aspect of work to come forward and Community express those concerns on a confidential basis without fear of reprisal or victimisation.
Environment These business policies are set out in a code of conduct which is Health and safety circulated to all businesses, which certify their compliance with its terms on an annual basis.
Human rights Community Business standards Our policy is to provide local employment, support the local economy, We strive to demonstrate our responsibility through protecting and, act as a responsible neighbour and employer and contribute towards wherever possible, enhancing the working conditions of our employees, the improvement of local health and education services.
the environment and the host communities who trust us to do our job safely, competently and efficiently.
The following statements reflect The need for electricity, fresh water and heating touches every area our policies.
of modern life this gives us considerable reach and global impact on peoples lives.
We, in turn, accept a reciprocal responsibility to conduct Competitive practices International Power will comply with our business with a proper concern for the world around us, particularly competition laws throughout the world: we will not take part in in the spheres upon which we have direct effects.
Community support unlawful cartels or any form of restrictive trade practice.
is a major focus of International Powers corporate activities.
Confidentiality and honesty International Power and its contractors are We play a positive role in the communities in which we operate, not required to comply with the terms of confidentiality agreements under because we have to but because we want to.
We aim to provide local which information is provided: all information should be true and not employment: support the local economy: act as a responsible neighbour misleading by omission.
and employer: and contribute towards the improvement of local health Ethics International Power will conform to local social norms and and education services.
values enshrined in host countries laws, regulations, customs and business practices, so long as compliance does not breach our code of ethical behaviour.
In such cases we would seek to lead with new, higher, local standards.
Human resources We believe in fairness and equal opportunities for all our employees or applicants, regardless of race, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, age or disability.
Annual Report 2006 57 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 24 07 11:32 Page 58 With respect to environmental compliance, plant operating and Environment monitoring procedures are effective in ensuring that our plants comply We strive for excellence in environmental performance through legal with the conditions of their licenses and consents.
Whilst we have compliance, certified management systems, stakeholder engagement experienced occasional breaches of our environmental operating limits, and the efficient use of natural resources.
there have been no recent incidents that have posed a significant threat As a global power generation company we recognise the importance to the environment or to our ability to run our plants.
Compliance with of developing and implementing a low carbon strategy over both the environmental limits is reported as one of our KPIs.
medium and long-term, and we are taking active steps to address this Full details of our environmental performance are set out on our issue.
We have a broad portfolio of assets with a small but growing website www.
com ipr environment env endata percentage of renewable generation.
We use state-of-the-art, proven environmental technology at our new assets and, where possible are Health and safety upgrading the older assets.
We believe that our performance We are committed to the best possible health and safety performance demonstrates our committed approach with reductions in our net through management commitment, legislative compliance, certified CO kWh over the last two years, from 0.889 kg of CO kWh in 2004, 2 2 management systems and continuing stakeholder engagement.
We use net reporting for CO, 2 2 which reflects our ownership interest in an asset.
As of today, due to One of our core values is to instil safe behaviour in everything we do.
the different regulatory regimes that exist in the markets in which we We therefore decided to ask DuPont, an acknowledged world authority operate, the level of carbon emissions has limited impact on our in this field, to carry out a safety review at a selection of our assets business.
However, we believe this will change in the near future, around the globe Paiton in Indonesia, Hays in Texas, Rugeley in the and we are taking steps to address our carbon emission levels UK, Pego in Portugal and Ras Laffan in Qatar to ensure that our whilst still remaining commercially competitive.
commitment to excellent health and safety standards, across our portfolio, is checked and challenged, and that best practice Most governments in developed countries have introduced legislation is shared by all our plants.
In addition DuPont reviewed the corporate to incentivise increased supply from renewable sources of generation.
headquarters and the tone at the top and the management link Growth in renewable generation is likely to impact production forecasts between the corporate centre and the assets.
The lessons learnt from for our fossil fuelled plants.
We have dedicated resources within our the review will be shared across our business once the review is operations and engineering teams to review technology trends and complete.
Health and safety is of vital importance in our business advances, to ensure we are best positioned to participate over the and therefore AFR is one of the non-financial KPIs that we use to short, medium and long-term in our drive towards a lower carbon manage our business.
environment not only in the UK, but very importantly, also internationally.
For example, we are also investigating means of reducing CO emissions from brown coal generation at our Hazelwood plant in 2 Victoria, working with both federal and state governments, and with selected technology specialists.
This is a medium to long-term project, and we are pleased to be at the forefront of addressing such an important issue for the Australian power generation business.
58 Corporate responsibility Saltend, UK 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 24 07 11:30 Page 59 Safety is achieved by focusing on three main areas: Human rights As we regard our employees as the greatest asset in the Company, Safety by engineering Delivered by comprehensive design reviews mutual respect is given the highest priority.
We support the Universal for new build projects, or in the case of an acquisition: a rigorous due Declaration of Human Rights and apply its principles throughout our diligence process is carried out to identify any risks.
This commits International Power to ensure: and maintained in line with applicable engineering standards with regular maintenance programmes ensuring that the equipment is the health and safety of our employees and the environment in which always operating within design parameters.
they work: Safety by management All International Power assets have formally respect for the opinions of our colleagues: documented management systems which are derived from a set of abuse of a personal nature has no place within International Power: corporate principles.
These systems are reviewed against international respect for the value of our time, both at work, and the value of time best practice and updated regularly.
The majority of our assets have devoted by our colleagues to their families: obtained external accreditation of their management systems through respect for different cultures and religions and equal opportunity OHSAS 18001.
A process is ongoing to ensure that the remaining regardless of employees location, nationality, gender, ethnic origin, few assets obtain accreditation by the end of 2007. sexuality or religion.
We also ensure that anyone in a supervisory position has an externally accredited health and safety qualification.
In January 2007 the Executive Directors and senior managers undertook the Institute for Occupational Safety & Health examination for senior executives.
Safety by behaviour Safety by engineering and management can only be effective if everyone involved behaves in the appropriate manner, namely, complies with the rules, looks after themselves and their colleagues and reports unsafe conditions.
To support safety by behaviour we have introduced a behaviour-based safety programme, across the company, called Fresh Eyes.
The aim of Fresh Eyes is that through regular work observations by colleagues, at risk behaviour and complacency can be identified and corrective action taken before any risks escalate into an incident.
We carry out regular benchmarking both internally and externally to ensure that we are constantly up to date with international best practice.
In addition to providing a safe place of work for our employees, we also have proactive health programmes in place at the majority of our assets.
These programmes provide regular health checks and encourage healthy lifestyles through a combination of training, health monitoring and subsidised gym memberships.
The reporting of health and safety issues is part of the Companys regular performance reporting and review process.
Annual Report 2006 59 Loy Yang B, Victoria 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:53 Page 60 Charitable giving Flagship projects The Companys charities and donations committee oversees the award Our flagship project programme, selected each year from staff of charitable and other donations.
In addition to assessing requests and nominations, has been running for five years.
These are community making awards in response to applications for assistance from a variety projects corporately funded annually by International Power.
Flagship of charities and good causes, the committee is also responsible for projects can range in size and scope, but they all have a common goal: selecting the Companys community-based nominated charities and to improve the quality of life in the community.
Donations are also made to alleviate hardship The 2006 Flagship projects were awarded to: and to support relief efforts in response to natural disasters.
The Traralgon Conservation Reserve in the Latrobe Valley, Australia, Within our regional businesses, each of our assets has an annual supporting the final phase of development.
The award will cover an fund for charitable projects in the local area.
information shelter and panels illustrating the native flora, fauna and history of the Reserve.
An education and development pack for Nominated charities students has also been produced.
International Power designates a number of organisations as nominated This facility is a vital community asset providing the opportunity to charities for periods of three years, providing a guaranteed level of learn about and enjoy the ever-diminishing natural environment.
It is annual funding over this time to support longer-term projects and ideally situated to provide numerous recreational and educational planning.
In 2006, the decision was made to continue to support our benefits for the local community.
three nominated charities with an annual sum of 20,000 to each of This project was proposed by Loy Yang B power station located in them.
These include Sight Savers to fund cataract operations and train the Latrobe Valley, Victoria, Australia medical staff in Pakistan.
In addition we have provided equipment and A second grant was awarded to Rugeley power station in the UK instruments for a clinic dealing specifically with child blindness.
This clinic to support Southern Staffordshire Forest Schools Cluster Group to is now fully operational.
Our other nominated charities continue to be provide an educational approach to outdoor play and learning.
The CRISIS, a London-based organisation which supports the homeless, the philosophy of the Schools is to encourage and inspire individuals of Queen Elizabeth Foundation who provide support for the disabled any age by engaging in motivating tasks and helping to develop through training, and mobility services.
It was decided to add a fourth personal, social and emotional skills.
charity namely Wellchild, where, in conjunction with Clifford Chance our legal advisors, International Power are part-funding the services The award will provide the relevant equipment, materials and publicity of a community nurse, to serve the Tower Hamlets area of London, to launch the Forest School in the Rugeley area.
for children who would otherwise have to remain in hospital.
During 2006 International Power and its subsidiaries contributed 1,050,000 to charitable causes and other community projects.
Companies in which we have a minority shareholding associates and joint ventures contributed a further 346,000.
60 Corporate responsibility 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:53 Page 61 EcoElctrica wins prestigious award EcoElctrica in Puerto Rico won the Community Development Program of the Year award at the Platts Global Energy Awards in 2006, beating over 200 nominees.
This is a prestigious award in the energy sector, that places particular emphasis on precision and full commitment.
EcoElctrica operates the only natural gas-fired power plant in Puerto for 40 students, and supplies materials and equipment to schools.
It Rico, and was the first independent power producer in the world to provided half the funds needed to purchase 85 acres of the El Convento integrate a power plant with a liquefied natural gas terminal.
Based in a Cave, the only ecosystem in Puerto Rico that has an underground river.
depressed area in the south with high unemployment, few educational EcoElctrica and its employees are also actively involved in many other opportunities and contamination from a rundown petrochemical community projects.
industry the company opted to be a source of economic regeneration.
In the opinion of the judges, EcoElctricas efforts in community EcoElctrica instigated a social engagement plan called EEE development outshine those of much larger energy businesses for Employment for the community, Education, and Environmental sheer commitment and social responsibility.
The construction of the plant created over 1,000 jobs This is just one of International Powers global community and today 82% of employees are from the local community.
For more details visit our website at www.
com The company invests annually in a college scholarship programme Annual Report 2006 61
