Directors report - Business review Corporate social responsibility 29% drop in accident incidence rate Directly or indirectly, We act responsibly We manage our corporate Interserves activities affect social responsibilities under by working safely and with the lives of many thousands of three principal policy consideration for those people across the world.
We headings: affected by our operations believe we have a duty to Health and safety behave responsibly in all We improve our respects, in all our performance Environment interactions with all our by sharing our knowledge Social and ethical stakeholders.
and through continual learning and innovation Interserve is a member of the Our behaviour is underpinned FTSE4Good and Kempen Social by our corporate mission and Culture Responsibility indices.
the values to which we We see ourselves, and would subscribe: wish others to see us as: Health and safety Creating a safe and healthy Mission Open, honest, pragmatic and working environment is Interserve is dedicated to trustworthy fundamental to Interserve so delivering sustainable Proud of what we do much so that it forms part of shareholder value by providing our mission statement.
We an integrated range of support Focused on performance and implement a structured services in partnership with success approach to safety our clients, our employees and Operating safely and management and work actively our supply chain.
We operate responsibly towards our goal of creating safely and responsibly and an accident-free environment seek to improve continually.
Always learning for our employees, the Continuously improving contractors who work for us Values and members of the public We continually add value to Commitments who interface with our clients and shareholders Our values and culture, operations.
by providing together with our internal A health and safety policy complementary services policy framework, enable us to document is signed by the and by nurturing longmanage our relationship with Chief Executive.
John Vyse is term relationships stakeholders on the basis of the executive director with the following commitments: We treat all people with special responsibility for respect To act in the long-term health and safety.
interests of all stakeholders by acting ethically and Delivering effective health through encouraging our To conduct our operations and safety is a linepeople to develop their ethically and in accordance management responsibility full contribution to the with the law and in all businesses there benefit of the business are designated directors To provide information that responsible for health and We work as a team and stakeholders legitimately safety.
These Safety honour our commitments require in a timely, equal Champions meet on a and transparent manner by acting in an open, quarterly basis to monitor professional and friendly To regulate our dealings in performance and comanner accordance with our ordinate Group-wide constitution initiatives.
28 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Left: Blyth - Peterborough Mini Triathlon As part of the Fundraising Week staff collectively ran, rowed and cycled 110km, raising over 1,600 for ChildLine.
Right: Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning 2006 Supporting Macmillan, a range of Interserve offices took part in this annual event raising over 1,500 which will pay for nearly 7,000 Cancer Care Guides.
Formal safety management A Dont Walk By campaign 2006 summary systems are implemented in is run across the Group The absence rate due to each business and the using briefings and posters work-related injury, majority are accredited to to empower all employees measured in days per the OHSAS 18001 standard.
to take responsibility both 100,000 employees, fell to The systems are specific to for their own safety and 23,932 from 25,313 in 2005. each business and provide also for that of others in appropriate guidance to deal the workplace.
Injury incidence fell to 556 with the range of risks per 100,000 workforce from Senior directors carry out encountered by our 788 in 2005. periodic safety tours of a employees.
range of operations to There were no convictions Competent health and safety provide visibility of their for health and safety professionals are employed commitment to safety and offences and no prosecutions to provide advice to senior gain assurance as to the outstanding at the year end management, support to adequacy of the as in 2005. staff and an audit service.
arrangements being made There were no prohibition This includes occupational for health and safety notices served on the Group health professionals who management.
as in 2005. provide specialist support for employee and The success of our There was one improvement management occupational arrangements is regularly notice served on the Group health issues.
recognised with the receipt of 2005: three.
In 2006 the Health and safety objectives There were four Dangerous various parts of the business are agreed by the Group Occurrences reported under received two British Safety Board and each business Reporting of Injuries, Council International Safety develops its own annual Diseases and Dangerous Awards and 25 RoSPA awards targets and appropriate Occurrences Regulations including: action plans in support of RIDDOR 2005: nine.
The core an Order of Distinction for There were no cases of objectives for the year 15 consecutive years of Gold reportable diseases as in were: Awards 2005.
Continue to deliver a Presidents Award for 10 improving health and consecutive years of Gold safety performance Awards Maintain the profile and two Gold Medals for five importance of health and consecutive years of Gold safety at all levels within Awards the Group and for all five Gold Awards stakeholders with the focus on creating an accident-free environment Improve management of occupational health issues Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 29 Directors report - Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Occupational health Injury incidence During the year work was The year saw significant improvements in all of our undertaken to enhance our performance indicators.
approach to occupational RIDDOR injuries - All labour Employees health management based on incidence per 100,000 2006 2005 2006 2005 health surveillance, absence Fatal and major 138 177 130 194 and attendance management All injuries 556 788 517 794 and work-related injury management.
A total of 145 RIDDOR-reportable injuries to employees and A target was adopted for contractors were recorded for 2006.
This includes data for health surveillance to be MacLellan companies from the date of acquisition and carried out for all employees represents an all-labour incidence rate of 556 injuries per identified in a high risk 100,000 workforce.
Overall, the activities in which the category.
To deliver this MacLellan companies engage hold inherently less physical risk required: than those of the Interserve Group as it was before the Carrying out occupational acquisition.
In order to enable a like-for-like comparison health risk assessments for between 2006 and 2005 it is therefore helpful to consider the all employees position without the inclusion of the MacLellan data.
This results in a 2006 incidence rate of 648 compared to the 2005 Agreeing a model for the figure of 788. delivery of occupational health surveillance All labour Delivering the occupational health surveillance 1,000 200 750 150 As our employee numbers 500 100 more than doubled in the middle of the year with the 250 50 acquisition of MacLellan it was 0 0 to be expected that this target 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 would take longer to achieve than originally planned.
At the end of the year For employees, a total of 98 reportable injuries were recorded assessments carried out at an incidence rate of 517 per 100,000 employees.
Without covered 60 per cent of MacLellan the rate was 639 compared to 794 in 2005. employees.
Twenty-one per cent of those assessed were Employees 1,250 150 rated as high risk and health surveillance had been provided 1,000 for 14 per cent of these 100 750 employees.
500 50 250 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 30 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Incidence rate Incidence rate Injury numbers Injury numbers Far Left: Business in the Community Fifteen Year 9 pupils from Stockland Green school visited the Project Services head office as part of the Business in the Community initiative.
The youngsters took part in four activities - creating a logo, slogan and advert, constructing a straw tower, designing the classroom of the future and learning how to make a brick circle.
Centre: Wear it Pink 2006 Once again this national fundraising day was well supported by Interserve with our offices raising over 1,600 between them.
Right: London Marathon 2006 Christine Morley, from RMD Kwikform, ran for the Multiple Sclerosis Resource Centre.
Progress against health and safety objectives and targets 2006 targets 2006 outcome 2007 targets Continue to deliver improving health and safety performance: Reduce all-labour reportable injury Achieved: Reduce incidence rate to below 494 incidence rate to below 746 Incidence rate 556 Reduce rate of fatal and major Achieved: Zero fatalities injuries to below 177 Incidence rate 138 Reduce major injury incidence rate to below 114 Reduce days lost due to work-related Achieved: Reduce days lost due to injury to injury to below 24,600 per Absence rate 23,932 per below 23,760 per 100,000 employees 100,000 employees 100,000 employees Maintain the profile and importance of health and safety at all levels within the Group and for all stakeholders towards creating an accident-free environment: Chief Executive and director Achieved: Chief Executive and director responsible for safety to visit sites 12 site safety visits carried out responsible for safety to visit sites in each operating company in each operating company Managing Directors to visit one site Achieved: Managing Directors to visit an per month Total of 34 visits carried out by average of one site per month Managing Directors Improve management of occupational health issues: Carry out health surveillance for 100% Not achieved but progress being made.
Carry out health surveillance for 100% of employees in high risk category Currently 14% of identified employees of employees in high risk category have received surveillance Reduce work-related sickness absence Achieved: Reduce work-related sickness absence to below 1.21 days per employee Absence rate of 1.20 recorded to below 1.16 days per employee Other senior directors made a further 30 safety visits.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 31 Directors report - Business review Corporate social responsibility continued The Group will set targets and Project Services holds ISO Environment objectives for the 14001 registration for all of its We recognise that our improvement of environmental main operations and in operations have an management and will publish Facilities Services our environmental impact and we details of its environmental contracts with the are committed to managing performance.
Metropolitan Police, Slough that impact to ensure we are Borough Council, Office for running a sustainable business.
All employees have a role to National Statistics and North We have adopted the following play in care of the Cumbria Acute Hospital Trust policy: environment.
The Group has are registered.
A corporate appointed a director to be EMS document was completed Group Environmental Policy responsible for environmental and launched on the Groups Statement issues, and environmental intranet in August: we have The policy of the Group is to responsibilities are allocated designated, briefed and conduct its operations in an to line management trained a number of EMS environmentally sustainable throughout the organisation.
managers across the Group and manner in order to protect the are carrying out a series of BSI environment for future This policy will be subject to EMS audits.
periodic review to ensure it continues to meet the Groups Alongside the need to manage In implementing its policy the environmental requirements.
the potential impact of our Group will seek, through its operations on the environment, operating companies, to We apply a structured we have the opportunity to ensure: approach and work to engage work with our customers to Compliance with relevant with all our employees to help deliver their environmental environmental legislation encourage them to consider objectives and to provide and regulation the environmental impact of environmentally innovative their activities.
This structured methods of working.
In 2006, Prevention of pollution approach may include: for example: The efficient use of natural Implementation of an We undertook a month-long resources environmental management ecological survey for great The minimisation of waste system EMS registered to crested and smooth newts and emissions to air and ISO 14001 at a site on Gatwick Airport water to ensure none would Environmental risk be disturbed by our Environmental awareness of assessments and the construction activities.
all employees development of site management plans We provided protective Effective monitoring of fencing to prevent damage environmental performance Training for employees to from debris or pedestrians raise environmental Continual improvement in to a water vole population awareness environmental performance and its habitat adjacent to Provision of facilities for the A34 outside Oxford.
segregation and recycling of waste 32 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Far Left: Car washing for ChildLine Staff at our Project Services head office took to their sponges and held weekly car washes to raise funds.
Along with raffles and coffee mornings the office has raised over 5,000 this year for ChildLine.
Centre: Newcastle Team Fundraising Newcastle Facilities Services team raised over 870 by organising a range of events including name the bear, football sweepstakes and a race night.
Right: Operation Christmas Child Staff at our South Wales office supported the Samaritans Purse Charity by collecting items to fill shoeboxes for children who have been a victim of war, poverty, famine, disease and natural disaster.
We installed a brown roof The success of this approach is We use a variety of indicators on our site offices at reflected in the awards we relevant to each of our Westminster Bridge which have received: operating companies to are located on a purposemonitor environmental The River Gaunless Flood built platform in the River performance, but the Alleviation Scheme won Thames, so as to provide following core impacts are further awards during the natural vegetation growth identified for the Group as a year: the prestigious Brunel and a roosting area for whole: Medal 2006 from the birds.
Institute of Civil Engineers Greenhouse gas emissions The Westminster Bridge ICE, the Robert Stephenson from our use of energy, contract also employs an Award from ICEs northern including electricity, gas, innovative filter layer built branch and one of the first fuel in vehicles, transport into the scaffolding so as to Green Hero awards from The and travel clean the water used to Green Organisation.
Use of resources including shot-blast and steamA Green Apple award was water and timber clean wash existing made to the South Leeds paintwork prior to its Generation and disposal of Stadium Link Road for discharge into the river.
We undertook extensive The project also won Urban Unless otherwise specified, works to protect existing Traffic Scheme of the Year in the data cover the Groups trees in our refurbishment of the 2006 Highways Magazine UK-based operations.
current facilities at Excellence Awards.
The Liberty Stadium in Greenhouse gas emissions At a Mansfield project we Swansea won the Best  used biological methods to Leisure Regeneration Project greenhouse gas emissions can clean up a contaminated in Property Weeks Retail be attributed to the direct and brownfield site.
and Leisure Awards 2006 and indirect use of energy in the the Hadley Learning delivery of our services and The sedum roofing at the Community was named as represent the Groups main Hadley Learning Community the Best Building and environmental impact.
The key see case study, pages 18-19 Learning Environment in the elements are: helps control the drainage of Education Business Awards.
rainwater, which is captured Fuel diesel and petrol and recycled to be used in We received six Considerate consumption in company the toilet facilities.
Constructor Awards including road vehicles and vehicles three Silver National Awards being used on company for Liberty Stadium, the business, including cars, improvements at the vans, lorries and site-based M3 A303 Bramley Wood plant bridge and the A5 from Weeford to Fazeley.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 33 Directors report - Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Electricity used at fixed Resource use Waste sites offices, branches etc.
Water is used to provide All fixed and temporary sites for lighting, cooling, IT welfare facilities in offices.
operate procedures to stream equipment, heating and Process water is used in and recycle waste wherever process equipment heating systems, cleaning possible.
In offices this operations and spray booth includes recycling paper, Gas and oil used to heat filters.
For our fixed sites an printer cartridges and premises 3 estimated 45,700m of water redundant equipment, and on Travel by employees on was used.
This compares to sites can include timber, 3 company business in the UK 43,500m in 2005, the metals and inert hardcore etc.
and overseas, including train difference being due to the journeys and flying addition of new sites through An estimated 42,200 tonnes of our acquisition of MacLellan.
waste was generated directly Our estimate of carbon dioxide by Interserve activities.
Over emissions in 2006, excluding Timber scaffold boards and 90 per cent of this was MacLellan companies, is 23.8 formwork panels are sold and construction waste from tonnes per million of revenue hired out in our scaffolding refurbishment and new build 2005: 27.0 tonnes per and formwork operations.
As a result of our million, a total of 30,849 Timber used in these products focus on managing our tonnes 2005: 33,238 tonnes.
is sourced from suppliers who construction waste 40 per cent This was apportioned: confirm that it is being of the material removed from obtained from managed site in skips is reused or sustainable sources.
Examples of active Tonnes per m revenue requirement for wooden recycling include: 35 pallets and stacking timbers Project Services operates a come from suppliers using 30 waste skip service and waste recycled timber.
A total of 25 76,342 tonnes was collected in skips from customers, 20 which comprise both Interserve sites and other 15 businesses.
Of this, 20,900 10 tonnes 27 per cent was taken through the transfer 5 station where a total of 2003 2004 2005 2006 2,874 tonnes of material was 0 reclaimed including 344 2006 2003 2004 2005 tonnes of steel and 93 Other travel 0.7 0.9 0.6 0.5 tonnes of timber.
Heating 0.8 2.2 1.6 0.9 Electricity 6.2 4.6 3.3 3.0 Transport fuel 22.8 22.0 22.4 19.2 34 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Far Left: Macmillan Peru Trek Nick Fiore undertook the Macmillan Peru Cycling Challenge completing the gruelling 480km course raising over 5,500 for Macmillan.
Centre: Fundraising Week 2006 Interserves first Fundraising Week was held in November 2006.
Its aim was to get as many staff as possible taking part in some sort of fundraising activity for ChildLine.
The ideas for raising money were as diverse as the locations they were held in.
Right: Its A Knockout For the third year running staff at Carlisle hospital took part in Eden Valley Hospicess annual Its A Knockout raising around 1,000 for the hospice.
In a Mansfield project During 2006 Project Services Social and ethical redundant timber fencing became a member company of We believe we can help the was cleaned and given to Business in the Community and communities in which we are the local community for is supporting the Cares involved not just by their use.
initiative as a bronze member, undertaking our work with a pilot project in the responsibly but also by Damaged and degraded road midlands to engage employees engaging in matters of local cones are recycled when no in their community through interest.
For example, Project longer suitable for use.
As part of this Services Stockton office Old road surfaces, concrete, initiative a class of year-9 sponsors a local school through rubble and filter media are pupils from a local school the Childrens Safety processed and reused in visited Project Services head Education Foundation, project works.
office and took part in a set of providing them with an activities designed to give educational programme on In Uxbridge a CD recycling them an appreciation of the safety including bullying, first scheme has been introduced skills involved in construction aid, road safety, drug, alcohol On the Armada project and the role it plays in the and solvent misuse, vandalism, arrangements have been community.
fire safety, car crime and antimade with manufacturers to social behaviour.
In addition recycle plasterboard waste Adrian Ringrose, Chief employees from the office 3 2,100m and all demolition Executive, is a Member of the assisted with a number of local waste was crushed, graded Employers Forum on Disability projects including making a and reused on site.
Christmas grotto for a childrens hospice, the Pollution installation of bird and bat Arrangements are in place to boxes and the creation of a record and address any modern jazz dance floor.
pollution incidents and environmental near misses.
No enforcement action was taken against Interserve or any Group company in 2006.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 35 Directors report - Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Diversity and equal All employees have a personal Employee consultation opportunities responsibility for the practical We believe in involving our Diversity is fundamental to our application of equal personnel in matters affecting business.
We operate in many opportunities, demonstrated them as employees and have different environments, in by respect for the individual, continued to keep them numerous roles, for a wide in their everyday dealings and informed of all relevant range of clients.
To do this working relationships with factors concerning the Groups effectively we need an equally colleagues, customers, performance, strategy, diverse workforce, and in suppliers and other parties.
financial status, charitable order to maintain our success activities and other issues.
We we welcome the widest variety Ethics achieve this through formal of people who have the It is important that individuals and informal briefings, through appropriate skills and throughout all of Interserves our Group magazine, Focus, enthusiasm.
operations retain a set of core which is issued three times a values and approaches to the year, and through our intranet.
Once someone is part of the process of doing business.
The Employee representatives are Interserve Group they have the reputation of the Group and consulted regularly on a wide chance to contribute and the trust and confidence of range of matters affecting develop in whatever way their those with whom it deals are their current and future abilities and the opportunities among its most vital resources, interests.
We and the protection of these is need to make the most of all of fundamental importance.
Investors in People that our employees have to We demand and maintain high Investors in People IiP is the offer so that we can give the ethical standards in carrying national standard which sets a best possible service to our out our business activities and level of good practice for clients and develop our tolerate no form of corrupt training and development of business for the future.
To support an open people to achieve business and honest operating goals.
It provides a framework Fairness and respect for environment, Interserve has a for improving business individuals creates the sort of whistle-blowing policy and performance and positive atmosphere that procedure.
We updated this at competitiveness through a generates its own success.
Our the end of 2006 and sent a planned approach to setting policy supports the copy to every employee early and communicating business fundamental belief that all our in 2007. objectives and developing employees, including potential people to meet these recruits, are equal regardless Our ethical policy includes objectives.
of gender, race, disability, guidance for managing our sexual orientation, age, relationships with customers, Our strategy is to roll out IiP religion, religious belief or any suppliers and competitors and recognition across the Group other reason that might be addresses the specific issues and we are reviewing and assumed to limit their associated with international updating our plans for contribution or potential.
We consider achieving this to take into harassment of any employee account the operations for any reason to be acquired with MacLellan.
Group Centre, Investments and Project Services were all reaccredited successfully in 2006.
36 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Left:Twyford ChildLine Lunch Supporting ChildLine, our Twyford office held a charity lunch during the hot summer, holding a silent auction, reflexology sessions and a raffle with prizes donated by local companies and organisations.
Right: Great North Run 2006 Carl Johnson, Ollie Sawle and Ross Miller continued our relationship with Macmillan by taking part in the 2006 Great North Run in October all completing the 13.1 mile course.
In support of good people- 2006 was the first year of our We supported the Metropolitan management practices, other association with ChildLine.
Polices Junior Citizen initiatives have been ChildLine is the UKs free, 24- programme, an annual event implemented during the year hour helpline for children in aimed at year-6 children which including the enhancement of distress or danger.
Trained aims to teach skills for benefits available to volunteer counsellors comfort, handling emergency situations employees, the development advise and protect children such as fire safety, home of a suite of materials to help and young people who may safety, strangers and employees understand more feel they have nowhere else to vandalism.
Our donation of about Interserve and how they turn.
We have committees in 10,000 enabled the can both contribute to and divisional and business-unit publication of handbooks for benefit from the Groups locations across the Group to the children.
In addition capabilities, and Equipment organise fund-raising events various parts of the Group and Services deployed its and assist individuals in their staff gave to a range of management development undertaking sponsored charities including 30,000 to programme to the next level activities.
As a result of their the RNLI and 8,000 to causes of managers.
work, the commitment and associated with our army and dedication shown by many RAF clients.
The success of individuals employees in their own committed to their personal sponsored activities and the training and development is generosity of numerous people recognised through the wellin Interserve and beyond, established Interserve Training 17,500 was raised in 2006 to Trust.
The Chief Executive complement the Group presented 45 people from donation of 25,000. across the Group with awards in May 2006.
Beyond ChildLine, all Interserve divisions took part Charitable giving in the Financial Times Crisis Interserve believes in at Christmas Card Challenge, contributing to the well-being where money is donated to of the communities in which it charity instead of being spent operates.
We have a on Christmas cards.
We programme which operates at donated a total of 10,000: different levels: at Group level 2,000 to the appeal, with the we select a charity every two remainder going equally to: years and make an annual Learning Through donation: we encourage Landscapes, Winchester business units to run charitable events, either for CLIC Sargent Caring for the Group charity or for Children with Cancer, another cause that is London important to the area or the National Association for people involved: and we offer Colitis and Crohns Disease, support for employees to St Albans undertake sponsored activities.
