Corporate social responsibility This Corporate Responsibility statement examines how, during the Corporate responsibility structure year under review, Intertek managed its own relationships with The Chief Executive Of cer is responsible for all the Groups corporate stakeholders including business partners, employees and local responsibility policies and their overall implementation.
Certain communities, and how the management of corporate responsibility standards adopted by the Group, such as the requirement for each issues ts within the Groups overall business aims.
Speci c corporate employee to commit to the Groups Code of Ethics, have global governance issues are reported in the Corporate Governance Report application.
In other cases, for example charitable giving, because on pages 31 to 34. of the geographically and socially diverse nature of the Groups staff, Intertek has adopted a framework approach to enable local In this Annual Report are examples of the positive impact that managers to tailor their relationships with employees, customers or Interteks business has had, through its services, on consumers and local communities so that they are appropriate but always remaining on the environment.
It is the very nature of Interteks business to within the Groups value framework.
As a result of Interteks test, measure and analyse products, commodities and systems, decentralised management style, local managers have responsibility contributing to a safer, healthier environment.
The Groups work with for the implementation of the Groups corporate responsibility clients and their supply chains increases energy ef ciency and reduces practices in their own area.
waste and risks from hazardous substances.
Products are made safer and systems more reliable.
Intertek is a member of a number of institutions and associations that have as their aim the achievement of bene ts, both social and Interteks business financial, through improvements in corporate citizenship practices.
Intertek is a service business and its commitment to supporting and The Groups participation in CSR Europe, the Ethos Institute of adding value for its customers drives everything it does.
The Group Business and Social Responsibility, Business of Social Responsibility and delivers innovative solutions to facilitate its customers success in the Canadian Business of Social Responsibility provides the opportunity to global marketplace and through its local service and global network play a role in translating responsible business policies into practice.
It is Intertek enables its customers to dedicate their energies to their core Interteks intention to pursue similar memberships in order to bene t business activities.
The Group offers comprehensive programmes and from current thinking on best practice and to provide assurance to services which draw on its industry-speci c knowledge and technical stakeholders in an easily accessible way that accepted benchmarks are expertise and it provides its customers with con dence.
Interteks services are wide-ranging and produce diverse bene ts The Ethical Sourcing Multi-Stakeholder forum that Intertek established through its customers.
Intertek provides Social Compliance in 2005 encourages dialogue between a range of stakeholders on Monitoring, which monitors manufacturers, including the carrying important issues with respect to global supply chains and the Group out of on-site audit, to help ensure that work practices and factory actively leads and sponsors several working groups which connect conditions are legal, humane and ethical, and that no enforced or leading stakeholders such as non-governmental organisations, child labour is used.
Intertek tests fuels for purity and performance, companies, investors, federations and the media on the advancement measures air and noise emissions, reviews imports to assess of corporate responsibility in international business practices.
their safety and quality, provides scanning services for security programmes, tests products for compliance with hazardous substance The Group provides expert technical input to a number of national, requirements and has been instrumental in developing the European regional and international standards development committees which Unions product recall guide.
These are some examples of the many contribute to ensuring that the safety, electro-magnetic compatibility ways Interteks services impact on a range of stakeholders.
and environmental requirements of products remain adequate in the changing environment, where new technologies and applications The Groups focus over the last year has been principally on people require constant review to maintain an acceptable level of safety and issues.
The commitments Intertek has made in its mission statement performance.
include the delivery of outstanding results through sound financial practices, through stable growth and through supporting and adding The Group is also involved in the development and management of value for its customers and these aims can only be achieved through recognised and globally accepted conformity assessment schemes the development of the technical and local expertise of Intertek staff, which include assessment of production processes in addition to the provision of a robust structure in which to work and bene cial compliance to national or international standards.
Intertek is an relationships with a variety of stakeholders.
accepted leader in this regard.
Intertek has adopted and published the following values for the Employees Group and for the individuals who work for it, the Group will: Diversity value trust and personal responsibility: Interteks practice is to recruit local people and the Group considers act with integrity, honesty and respect: the diversity of its staff one of its greatest assets, enabling value each employees contribution toward achieving our it to act sensitively to the needs and cultures of its staff and to be business objectives: open to different ways of doing business, in line with local practices promote a culture where motivated customer-orientated and customs.
As a result of the rapid growth of the Group and of employees can ourish, experience professional ful lment and normal staff turnover, some onefifth of current employees have reach their highest potential: and been recruited in the last year.
The Group is therefore developing its respect diverse perspectives, experiences and traditions as essential.
statistical reporting to provide a regularly updated picture of its staff pro le, to track staff turnover, quali cation, training, equality of These values feed into the Groups relationships with staff, customers, opportunity and selection issues and to identify the best ways to suppliers and other stakeholders.
A shared human resources knowledge database incorporating local best practice is being developed for Intertek Group plc Annual Report 35 Corporate social responsibility access across the Group.
In addition, on-line training in the application Share plans of the Groups ethical values has recently been introduced to improve The Group is committed to encouraging its key executives to align effectiveness and provide consistency of approach.
The Group themselves with the interests of shareholders and the Groups increasingly uses surveys as a gauge of employee sentiment on a performance, through the ownership of the Companys shares.
Company operates share schemes for senior executives and details are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 30.
Development As outlined in the Group human resources framework policy, Unions Interteks strategy for the development of its staff is: Some of the Groups employees are members of trade unions and to invest in the competence of employees and provide a work councils, mostly in continental Europe.
The Group communicates stimulating work environment: regularly with the union representatives and aims to maintain good to improve the Groups capacity to attract, develop, and retain the labour relations with all its employees.
best people who share in the mission, values and success of the Group: and Business standards and ethics to provide employees with the opportunity to make their best The reliability of Interteks work is absolutely crucial to its continuing contribution both individually and in teams, for their personal success.
Trust in the employees who provide the Groups services is satisfaction and the success of Interteks business and customers.
underpinned by the Groups Code of Ethics, which every employee must sign and on which each employee receives brie ng.
The Code In pursuance of this strategy each employee will be supported so addresses matters of honesty and integrity, con icts of interest, that they may contribute their best in a role suited to their personal con dentiality, the potential for bribery and violation of local or global abilities, competence and preferences.
Each employee should have a laws or guidelines.
It can be found in full on the Groups website as face-to-face discussion with their direct manager at least once every can the Zero Tolerance policy which states that all reports issued by 12 months.
The Group provides continuous learning opportunities the Group must be accurate and no deviation from this standard is and training for personal growth so that employees remain up-to-date tolerated.
A telephone hotline, which can be used in a number of and highly expert in the services delivered to customers.
The Groups languages, is provided to staff and also via the website to raise management development initiatives focus on leadership workshops concerns about this or any other aspect of the Groups operations.
All to develop its existing teams as well as identifying and growing talent.
instances are investigated by an appropriate person, who is likely to be Intertek has recently carried out a talent mapping review of senior a compliance of cer, a member of the Internal Audit team or a human management to ensure that its management team is the right one resources professional depending on the nature of the concern.
results are reported to Executive Directors fortnightly and to the Audit and Risk Committee on a regular basis.
On average some 3050 Equality reports per year are received by the Group through the hotline and The Group aims to ensure that all employees are assessed solely on other means with most concerns relating to workplace conduct.
the basis of their ability irrespective of their race, religion, colour, age, Regular Internal Audit reviews also include ethical compliance matters.
disabilities, gender or sexual orientation.
The Internal Controls section of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 33 to 34 contains more details on the audit of controls.
In accordance with the Groups equal opportunities policy, people with disabilities are given the same consideration as others when they apply Community involvement and charitable giving for jobs.
Depending on their skills and aptitudes, they enjoy the same The Group operates at a large number of sites in 109 countries.
career prospects as other employees.
Where employees become Interteks strategy is to allow local management to manage disabled every effort will be made to retain them in their current role or relationships with local communities and stakeholders in order to to explore possibilities for retraining or redeployment within the Group.
maximise local knowledge and bene t. The following examples Where necessary the Group aims to provide such employees with demonstrate how this approach has worked during 2006. facilities, equipment and training to assist them in doing their jobs.
In St Johns, Canada, where a great deal of emphasis is placed on Health, safety and risk environmental issues, Intertek has recently agreed to donate 9,500 The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of primary a year for the next five years to a new Environmental University Trust.
Accordingly, the Group manages its activities so as to avoid any unnecessary or unacceptable risks and local labour laws, best Interteks principal of ce in the Peoples Republic of China encourages practice codes and regulations are applied.
Intertek has employees employees to volunteer for seaside cleaning operations and sponsors and facilities in areas where there is a risk of disruption from natural tree-planting.
Some 100 employees and their families take part in the disasters such as hurricanes, oods and earthquakes.
The Group has planting activity.
Staff have also collected school materials for poor comprehensive disaster recovery plans which include securing the areas in China.
The Group also contributes some 19,000 per year safety and wellbeing of employees.
Following the hurricane Katrina to a scholarship fund for HuaDong University.
and Rita in the US, Intertek bene tted from its support to employees by being among the first in its line of business to recommence In the US, staff contribute time to promote the Ronald McDonald operations.
House charity and Intertek has sponsored events in connection with the same charity.
The Houston client Christmas party supports a local Intertek has employees in many countries, is aware that they may be charity each year and in 2006 it raised 1,000 cash and contributed subject to a number of risks and is supportive of their needs.
The 300 toys for needy families in the Houston area.
The Groups Cortland Group has comprehensive disaster recovery plans in place.
Following site in New York state was involved in some twenty projects, some of the hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the US, Intertek bene ted from its a national nature and many local, raising amounts of up to 4,200. support to employees by being among the first in its line of business Other projects in the US included the donation of 350 Thanksgiving to recommence operations.
dinners and volunteering for river clean-up operations.
36 Intertek Group plc Annual Report In South Africa, as part of the Black Economic Empowerment Intertek has formal quality management systems in place in most of its programme encouraged by the government, one quarter of the local larger facilities.
These are based on internationally recognised quality company, Intertek Testing Services SA Pty Ltd, is owned by a trust management standards including ISO 9001, ISO 9000 and ISO 17025 which holds the shares on behalf of black employees.
Procurement and include complaint handling procedures, staff assessment and policies which assist black businesses have been adopted.
Quality metrics are compiled both locally and employees are encouraged to contribute time and expertise to globally, including performance monitoring statistics that report the programmes assisting underprivileged communities.
These include accuracy, speed and reliability of testing carried out.
In addition, donating food, clothing and equipment to an orphanage caring for meetings are held with customers during which they may visit the AIDS orphans and donating computers to schools.
Groups facilities and review everything from invoice accuracy to laboratory charts.
These meetings are usually followed by a formal Environment report and corrective action if any fide ciencies are identi ed.
Regular The Groups impact on the environment through its services includes customer satisfaction surveys are carried out.
assisting its clients to meet compliance and effectiveness targets in the production of bio fuels and ethanol.
Intertek assists compliance Intertek aims to develop relationships with suppliers that are based with ultra low sulphur diesel legislation affecting retail outlets and upon mutual trust.
The Group is aware of the importance of prompt distribution channels and also contributes towards the production payment, especially to small businesses, and it undertakes to pay of low energy and low emission equipment.
suppliers on time and according to agreed terms of trade.
The Group has a wide range of suppliers and no individual supplier is of critical As a service business, the Groups own operations have limited direct importance to the Group.
Many of the sites the Group occupies are not owned or managed by Intertek.
However, Intertek recognises that There have been over 200 individual meetings with shareholders and its day-to-day activities do have an impact on the environment.
The investment managers during the year, two week-long roadshows in Group is committed to reducing any adverse impact on the environment the UK and several overseas roadshows, regular analyst brie ngs and as a result of its operations and to bene ting from reductions in an investor day at which signi cant investors and analysts were able operating costs.
Since the Groups otation in 2002 a review of the to view our activities at two UK sites.
Interteks investor relations team more signi cant Group sites has been carried out through the Health, is readily available to handle enquiries.
Feedback on the Groups Safety and Environment HSE programme, with 1215 sites being investor programme has been positive and Intertek has good subjected to review each year.
Any concerns arising have been relationships with investors and their representatives.
of a minor and easily remedied nature.
In addition, the Group has recently concluded the first stage of an HSE survey of all Intertek sites designed to assess how the operational sites managed by Intertek are implementing and auditing HSE policy and minimising their impact on the environment as part of their HSE management procedures.
In order to increase the transparency, ease and comparability of reporting across the Group Interteks risk management team has identi ed a number of measures including energy and water consumption, use of fuel by Group vehicles, use of ozone-depleting substances and waste and byproduct production.
In certain cases, the Group occupies facilities where contamination occurred prior to the Groups use of the site.
In each case the Group has implemented remedial works, on the advice of third party specialists, to minimise further damage to the environment.
Environmental due diligence is carried out before the acquisition of any new sites.
The disposal of product samples is audited to ensure compliance with HSE guidelines.
Customers, suppliers and shareholders As the Groups mission statement sets out, the adding of value for its customers is a key aim and is embedded in its service offerings.
One of Interteks most important commercial initiatives during the year has been the introduction of a more uni ed service structure to enable its customers, a number of whom are present in several geographical areas and deal with several of the Groups divisions, to deal with Intertek on a one-stop shop basis.
Our websites and other promotional and advertising materials contain extensive details of the Groups services and other information about the Group.
Many of Interteks customers have been given access to extensive databases containing information relevant to our services.
Every email sent by the Groups Oil, Chemical & Agri division includes a customer service feedback link.
The results are reported to local management and the head of the division and any issues arising are followed up by area and branch managers.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 37
