Corporate social responsibility During the past year we have implemented a revised Code of Conduct and reduced accident rates, CO emissions, waste 2 production and water usage.
Invensys remains strongly committed to its corporate Health and safety responsibilities in relation to the communities within Our primary goal remains to cause no harm to which it operates and to the environmental people.
We are pleased to report good progress consequences of its activities.
We believe this towards this goal with our accident frequency rates commitment enhances the prospects of successfully ahead of targets.
For 2005 06, we had targeted a Lost achieving our business goals.
Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR per 100 employees of 0.6 and at the end of March 2006 the During the past year we have focused upon the actual performance was 0.42 30% better than target.
Group-wide implementation of a revised Code of For Total Recordable Cases Incident Rate TRCIR Conduct, including training: so far around 95% the target was 1.8 and actual achieved was 0.85 of employees have received either online or offline 53% better than target.
The graph below sets out training.
We have also set ourselves rigorous targets the moving annual totals for these two measures over for employee safety and have achieved significant the past two years.
Finally, we have also Frequency Moving Annual Total LWCIR and TRCIR reduced the impact of our activities on the 4.5 environment through reduced CO emissions, waste 2 production and water usage and are able to publish 4.0 metrics for these for the first time.
3.5 3.0 Code of Conduct The Invensys Code of Conduct is a key resource in our 2.5 commitment to integrity: it has been communicated to 2.0 every employee across the Group.
Online interactive 1.5 training is provided for all employees with internet access, and trainer-led sessions are being 1.0 implemented for all other employees.
Training began 0.5 in September 2005 when the Code of Conduct was launched and around 95% of online and offline 0 training has so far been completed.
The Code of Conduct is part of a broader Compliance Programme, LWCIR TRCIR which is designed to ensure compliance with our legal obligations and to reduce legal risks.
During the past year, no reports have been received of any fines or other actions from breaches of health Environment, health and safety EHS and safety regulations.
Policy and organisation In our continuing efforts to increase the pace of Environment improvement in our EHS excellence, a new structure Although our primary focus over the past year has was announced in November 2005 and an EHS been directed at reducing the number of injuries, we functional leader appointed for the Group in February continue to monitor closely our environmental impact.
The Groups EHS Policy has been updated to Given our manufacturing history, our largest impact reflect these changes.
The EHS function heads in each is from closed and sold operations and we continue of our business groups now report on a dual basis to manage in a responsible manner those for which both to the Presidents of their business groups and we remain liable.
In addition, the Board receives a to the Group functional leader.
In addition we have monthly report on any violations, citations or strengthened resources and expertise within the environmental releases.
In the past year, there were Controls business, which has the majority of our minor violations reported at Pune, India and Rockford, manufacturing sites, by appointing EHS managers for Illinois.
Neither of these resulted in any fine or the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Together with a penalty and the required corrective action has been continuous review and improvement of talent at our taken.
One environmental release was notified relating sites, we believe the EHS organisation structure is well to an increase in existing soil and groundwater placed to provide the highest quality of service to contamination at Chippenham, Wiltshire.
each business and to help us achieve our goals.
32 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 Incidents per 100 employees Apr 04 May 04 Jun 04 Jul 04 Aug 04 Sep 04 Oct 04 Nov 04 Dec 04 Jan 05 Feb 05 Mar 05 Apr 05 May 05 Jun 05 Jul 05 Aug 05 Sep 05 Oct 05 Nov 05 Dec 05 Jan 06 Feb 06 Mar 06 Using the Department for Environment, Food and Employees Rural Affairs guidelines, we identified the following Our people are the most important element in our as Key Performance Indicators KPIs for our efforts to achieve further improvements in our manufacturing facilities: performance.
We have strengthened our global teams total CO emissions tonnes : with the skills that should enable us to deliver our 2 total water consumption cubic metres : business growth.
We offer competitive remuneration, total non-hazardous wastes tonnes : and including long-term incentives, to ensure we attract total hazardous wastes tonnes.
the best and remain committed to the personal development of our employees.
Individual training, Although we have not set targets for the four KPIs tailored to specific needs, is offered by the business selected, as our manufacturing base continues to groups through the Invensys University and both change as restructuring strategies are implemented, external and internal courses.
Leadership training we have continued to collect data from our main is being given to our senior talent through JMW sites.
For the 56 manufacturing sites reporting for Consultants to ensure that they have the capabilities both the calendar year 2005 and the calendar year to lead the Group into a successful future.
2004, we decreased: total CO emissions by 1,103 tonnes 0.86% : Community relations 2 total water consumption by 51,633 cubic We recognise our responsibilities to the communities metres 3.03% : in which we operate.
We encourage our businesses total non-hazardous wastes by 443 tonnes 3.60% : and employees to support the development and welland being of their local communities through a variety of total hazardous wastes by 38 tonnes 1.79%.
Following the success of the previous years efforts following the earthquake and tsunami in the In addition, the number of sites using Indian Ocean, many of our businesses went on to trichloroethylene or perchloroethylene has reduced raise money for hurricane relief in the USA.
We from nine in 2004 to seven at the end of 2005 as recognise, however, that at a time when the Company programmes to find less hazardous solvents have is not paying dividends to shareholders sensitivity is proved successful.
required in relation to the area of corporate giving and we continue to moderate donations made by These remaining seven sites continue to seek suitable the Group.
replacement substances and, where no alternatives can be found, checks will be carried out to ensure that their chemical management plans are adequate.
Progress continues with the strengthening of environmental management systems.
The Eliwell site at Belluno, Italy has achieved ISO 14001 accreditation, giving a total of six accredited sites.
A further three sites are working towards certification in the next twelve months.
In Denmark, the APV Heat Transfer site in Kolding received a Green Network Diploma in recognition of its work towards achieving more environmentally sustainable business practices.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 33
