Meet our people Highly talented people, adding value to clients operations Alison Francis Paul McRae BSc Hons, ACA, CTA, AMCT BASc Bachelor of Applied Science AMEC plc, Finance, UK Natural Resources Minerals and Metals Mining, Canada In her role as Director of Tax and Paul is Project Manager for DeBeers Treasury, Alison is responsible for Victor diamond mine.
This remote site in ensuring that AMEC remains compliant Northern Ontario, Canada, is only land with relevant legislation while also being accessible via a 400km winter road, which structured efficiently to minimise taxes.
is open just 45 days each year, making this Her role also includes ensuring that the largest, single project, winter road AMEC has access to funds when mobilisation ever undertaken in North necessary and uses them resourcefully.
AMECs scope for this project ranges from design through logistics, construction and commissioning, including project management and environmental permitting.
6 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Meet our people w ww ww w.. a am me ec c.. c co om m Meet our people AMEC plc annual report 2006 7 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 6 4 4 07 09:15:49 Nicola Mason Syed Alyahya Dr. Scott Stoodley BEng Hons, CEng, MIChemE Natural Resources Oil and Gas Services, Ph.
D Environmental Sciences, MS Malaysia Environmental Studies, BS Wildlife Power and Process - Industrial, UK Resources Management Having put his Diploma in Information In her role as Engineering Manager, Earth and Environmental, US Systems to good use setting up AMECs Nicola has overall responsibility for offices in Manila, Singapore and Dr. Stoodley sits on the United States ensuring technical integrity of the Jakarta, Syed has now moved on to take Water Resources Steering Committee projects delivered from our Darlington up a new role as Sales Manager for and uses his 20 years of experience in office.
Using her specialist process Malaysia.
Based in Kuala Lumpur, this field to help shape the future of engineering background and he is responsible for developing and AMECs water resources programmes experience of the technical aspects maintaining all the regions business throughout North America.
He is an of gas compression and storage, she development systems.
expert in non-point source pollution and is currently considering how to transfer the application of remote sensing for this knowledge into the renewable and environmental problem solving.
green energy markets, particularly carbon dioxide capture and storage.
Elisabeth Castro Steve Radley MEng Hons, CEng, MIMechE MSc Project Management, HND, HNC, OND Power and Process - Nuclear, UK Natural Resources Oil and Gas Services, UK Elisabeth works for AMECs Nuclear Following a successful three years business with responsibility for a wide in Korea providing technical support range of R&D projects.
Amongst her services for the Sakhalin topsides day to day activities of tenders, technical construction and commissioning teams reports and project management, as Senior Project Manager, Steve is now Elisabeth has also designed and pursuing other major offshore oil and commissioned a scale model gas projects on AMECs behalf.
He also of an Advanced Gas-cooled Reactor puts his extensive and wide ranging incorporating an optical measurement experience to good use, coaching our system precise to a fraction of engineers and project managers of a millimetre.
Meet our people AMEC plc annual report 2006 7 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
