AMEC topped the Dow This section looks at why shareholders should be thinking about sustainability from the perspective of AMECs business and why ensuring a sustainable Jones Sustainability indices approach to all projects worldwide is important to AMEC.
In addition, there is a review of AMECs performance indicators and of the businesses performance for Support Services in 2006 against them.
Growing influence of sustainability Sustainability can be defined as AMECs ability to generate shareholder value today without compromising its ability to deliver in future years and for future generations.
More and more, AMEC is seeing the marketplace evolve to reflect goods and services which offer more sustainable solutions in design, delivery and support.
AMEC must be well positioned to support current and future clients in delivering their sustainable goals.
Clients are asking more questions about how AMEC manages sustainability issues such as ethical conduct, community investment and carbon management.
There is an increasing emphasis on the wider social and environmental impact of projects with which AMEC is associated.
Market place opportunities The Stern Review, published in November 2006, examined the economic implications of climate change on the global economy.
Its conclusions were clear and simple: the benefits of strong early action outweigh the costs.
The current level of greenhouse gas in the atmosphere is equivalent to around 430 parts per million ppm CO compared to only 280ppm before the industrial 2 revolution.
Emission of greenhouse gas is rising at an increasing pace with the emergence of fast growing economies investing in a high carbon infrastructure.
The review estimates that to stabilise carbon emissions at 500-550ppm CO 2 equivalent by 2050 would cost one per cent of annual global GDP.
The monies would be spent on: 48 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Business and financial review www.
com Business and financial review AMEC plc annual report 2006 49 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 48 3 4 07 15:35:33 Reducing demand for emission intensive goods and services Board commitment and leadership The board receives regular updates and briefings on significant sustainability Increasing efficiency, which can save both money and emissions issues such as safety, health, environmental management and human Action on non-energy emissions, such as decontamination of land resources.
Performance is monitored and action taken as necessary.
Switching to low carbon technologies for power, heat and transport Samir Brikho, chief executive, has responsibility for leading and driving the sustainability programme throughout the business.
With AMECs range of skills, technical ability and knowledge, it is well placed To help drive improvement, sustainability objectives were part of the 2006 to succeed in the growth of sustainability related business.
For example, executive directors bonus scheme.
AMEC has significant capabilities in environmental, wind and nuclear energy services.
In addition, AMEC continues to research and develop many other sustainability related innovative technologies, such as carbon sequestration, Continuous improvement satellite monitoring and low carbon materials.
It ensures that AMEC AMECs minimum requirement is to ensure the effective management of its is in a strong position to manage both sustainability related market place sustainability impacts by integrating sustainability into day-to-day business opportunities and risk.
In addition to this, each business is required to define and deliver improvement programmes, known as AMEC Agenda 21s.
These programmes An important aspect of AMECs work is helping to conserve finite natural are a direct response to the UN Agenda 21 call for business and industry to resources such as designing efficient, safe oil and gas technologies, reducing implement action within their sphere of influence to address sustainable the environmental impact of how resources are used, such as emission development priorities.
UN Agenda 21 Chapter 30, paragraph 30.1 desulphurisation for coal fired power stations as well as looking towards tomorrows energy sources and infrastructure including nuclear and bio fuel.
During 2006, a further series of sustainability workshops and forums were AMECs experience is helping clients to deliver projects with long-term held across the business with the aim of sharing knowledge and information.
sustainable benefits as well as contributing to minimising the impacts These forums also tracked progress against individual business Agenda 21s.
of resources essential to todays economy and lifestyle.
AMEC has developed an interactive intranet facility for sustainability co-ordinators across the group, to help them share resources, information Sustainability in the workplace and ideas.
This has been an efficient way of making best use of AMECs AMEC manages and monitors the impact of business activities through resources, with the additional benefit of improving the network of sustainability its company-wide sustainability programme, which continued to evolve co-ordinators, bringing them closer together.
For a full account of AMECs sustainability management and performance please refer to the on-line sustainability report at AMEC has continued to promote sustainable behaviour and business www.
com performance through brochures and news networks and reached a wider employee base during the year.
There are opportunities for improvement to ensure that people have a clear understanding of their personal sustainability responsibilities and to support AMEC businesses in understanding the evolving global sustainability agenda.
Business and financial review AMEC plc annual report 2006 49 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 49 3 4 07 09:28:39 Sustainability continued 3.35 days lost per employee due to sickness absence 2005: 4.48 Operational sustainability performance summary AMEC has over 40 corporate sustainability indicators across the business.
15 per cent employee instigated turnover compared to 9 per cent in 2005 A full and detailed performance report is contained in the on-line sustainability 18 ethics complaints reported in during 2006 2005: 24 report at www.
com including an analysis of performance, targets and objectives.
Sustainability performance indices A summary of indicators is outlined below that directly affect AMECs ability Taking part in sustainability performance indices provides AMEC with excellent to generate long-term value for shareholders.
Data for 2005 has been learning opportunities through benchmarking its performance and engaging recalculated, excluding the AMEC SPIE business which was sold in 2006, with its peers.
The indices in which AMEC participates provide an in-depth to provide a like for like comparison: analysis of its sustainability performance.
0 health and safety convictions citations, the same as last year Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI 0 fatalities at work compared with 7 in 2005 DJSI results influence the investment decisions of asset managers in 14 countries for a variety of sustainability driven portfolios, including mutual 2 per cent reduction in total recordable case frequency rate during 2006 funds, segregated accounts, structured products, as well as two exchange Lost time incident frequency rate rose by 15 per cent during 2006 traded funds.
The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents awarded AMEC businesses During 2006, AMEC achieved a strong performance in both the World and two Gold Medal Awards, three Gold Awards and one Silver Award PanEuropean Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
AMEC was listed as the 100 per cent of AMEC operations covered by OHSAS 18001 compliant health support sector leader in both.
This is AMECs third year as a participant of the and safety management system index and its third year as sector leader.
1 environmental prosecution with a fine of 2,044 and one non prosecution agreement compared to 1 prosecution with a 2,493 fine in 2005 Business in the Community For the last three years, AMEC has been ranked in the Top 100 Companies 74 per cent of AMEC people work within an ISO 14001 compliant That Count index, published annually in the Sunday Times, and has achieved environmental management system year-on-year improvement in its management score.
AMEC businesses reported 80 pollution incidents of which one resulted in prosecution action In 2006, AMEC continued to participate in the Corporate Responsibility, Environment and Community indices and all results and confidential feedback AMEC contributed to the Carbon Disclosure Project during 2006 is included in the on-line sustainability report at www.
During 2006, AMEC became a founder member of the Carbon Capture and Storage Association with twelve other companies Training spend in relation to employment cost 1.27 per cent 2005: 1.41 per cent 33 per cent of vacancies filled internally 2005: 24 per cent 50 AMEC plc annual report 2006 Business and financial review www.
com Business and financial review AMEC plc annual report 2006 51 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
indd 50 3 4 07 09:28:41 Future priorities In years to come, the only truly successful businesses will be those that achieve a sustainable balance between their own interests, and those of society and the natural world.
It is only possible to achieve this through wholly integrating sustainability into the way AMEC performs on a daily basis, upholding its principles and striving for improvement across the triple bottom line.
AMECs challenge for 2007 will be to continue to engage its people and communicate clearly the ways in which they can support the drive towards a more sustainable future.
AMEC will continue with its key themes: Ensuring open communication with all stakeholders Improving leadership and employee engagement Continued alignment of the businesses to sustainability goals AMEC will continue to use the Agenda 21 approach with the aim of achieving more challenging sustainable targets.
Verification procedure Statements relating to sustainability made on pages 48 to 51 of this report have been verified by an external, independent team from Enviros.
All data used has been checked for reliability and subjected to audit via an internal team of auditors.
The opinion of Enviros is set out in the footnote below.
Enviros has provided verification of the Sustainability section of the AMEC annual report 2006.
We have reviewed both quantitative and qualitative information and data and found the interpretation and presentation to accurately reflect business practices and performance within AMEC.
The information and data presented in this section has been tailored to the interests of the reports audience and is a sub-set taken from AMECs Sustainability Performance Report 2006, which Enviros also verifies.
Business and financial review AMEC plc annual report 2006 51 4155 AMEC front 06 LH CS2.
