Corporate Social Responsibility Statement 2006 Annual Report and Accounts It is iSOFT's view that operating in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner... 41 provides a stronger basis for the future development of its business operations.
Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility It is iSOFT's view that operating in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner provides a stronger basis for the future development of its business operations.
Employment policy As a knowledge-based organisation, iSOFT continually reviews the suitability of employment policies and practices to attract and retain knowledgeable, high performing employees.
The directors recognise the importance of individual employee contributions in delivering the Group's performance and have maintained a commitment that each employee should regularly receive a formal appraisal.
The online appraisal process is an 04 important means by which individual reward and Gradually Scott's condition improves and he is admitted to a personal advancement is determined.
The process ward where a nurse specialising in measures individual performance against an the treatment of diabetes is integrated scorecard of objectives, under the brought in to help.
The specialist headings: financial, technical and operational, nurse provides Scott with management and relationships, team working and information about diabetes and refers him to a dietician who can collaborative effort.
provide him with the advice he During the year the Company introduced an needs to follow a healthy balanced diet appropriate for his condition.
International Mobility Policy setting out enhanced He's also told about the help employment terms to encourage the engagement available online from Diabetes UK and participation of employees having key domain at www.
uk skills, in global teams.
In particular, these terms Continued on page 44. increased the level of international support available to the Product Group in Chennai, India.
The Company maintains links to local universities Employee communication and consultation and supports education sponsorship within local The Group provides employees with regular updates communities, principally in India and Germany.
and information about the Group through the electronic publication of an employee newsletter Equal opportunities policy and through the Group's employee intranet, iGATE.
The Group is a committed equal opportunities employer and operates working practices to iSOFT has established two Employee Consultation promote an employment environment that is free Forums 'VOiCE' with elected representatives.
These from discrimination and harassment.
are for employees in the UK and India.
VOiCE was established to create a means of active involvement, It is iSOFT policy to ensure that all employees and social dialogue, information dissemination and applicants are treated equally, regardless of gender, 42 communication.
In the UK, iVOiCE, played an marital status, race, colour, disability or sexual important role in representing employee interests to orientation.
Disabled individuals are afforded the the Company regarding the closure of the same opportunities as others, and the Group actively Birmingham office and the initial stages of the UK supports the employment of disabled persons and headcount reduction programme.
the retention of employees who become disabled whilst in the employment of the Group.
Twenty high potential employees from across the Group were brought together at the Group Health and safety policy headquarters over four days in October 2005.
The Following a review of the Group's Health and Safety aim was to create a forum for sharing ideas about management, the Group is currently revising its how to improve interaction across the Group and to Health and Safety policy and planning to improve participate in personal development exercises.
The communication of its Health and Safety policy event has led to stronger working ties between through the production and issue of a new guide different parts of the Group.
for all employees and visitors.
Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE matters Employee equity participation The iSOFT business recognises that achieving success Many employees across the Group have in environmental and social management is a joint shareholding interests in the Company either directly responsibility between employees and management.
or under share option and Sharesave schemes.
The Active employee participation in community events directors actively encourage employee equity and charities is strongly supported through the participation, subject to compliance with the giving of time and the internal promotion and Group's employee share dealing policy.
Details of support for such activities.
the current employee share option schemes and options granted during the year are provided in note The directors recognise that whilst iSOFT's business 26 to the financial statements on page 104. activities as a developer and supplier of software applications have minimal direct environmental impact, there are environmental impacts in running a company and our commitment to adopting best practice evidences our responsibility.
The Group's environmental policy aims to raise awareness of environmental matters, establish standards, assess the impact of its business activities on the environment, set improvement objectives and monitor performance against these objectives.
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The Group's philosophy is to establish a paperless working environment wherever appropriate.
This is supported through the automation of a number of internal management and administrative processes such as performance appraisals, job profiles and a competency framework, and annual leave requests.
The Group continues to look at ways to move closer to a paperless working environment.
The Group also encourages staff to minimise unnecessary travel by using web exchange and 43 video conferencing facilities and working from home in appropriate circumstances.
The responsibility for maintaining and enforcing the SEE policy resides at Board level.
The Board confirms that it does not consider any significant SEE issues to have arisen during the course of the year.
A copy of the current environmental policy is available on the Group's website at www.
Donations Individual office locations throughout the Group have informally co-ordinated employee fund raising activities for national charities during the course of the year.
iSOFT made no financial contributions to political parties in the year.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on 25 August 2006 and signed on its behalf by: John Weston Chairman and acting Chief Executive Officer 44
