17 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Our market environment Advertising trends The challenge for all media companies is to work within the context of these changes and prepare their businesses for ITV is a vibrant company with many unique assets operating the future.
With the success of ITVs digital channels, and the in a challenging and highly regulated commercial environment.
development of our broadband and mobile businesses, ITV is As the UKs leading commercial free-to-air broadcaster we well positioned to take advantage of the digital environment.
generate the majority of our revenues from television advertising, which remains the largest display advertising medium in the UK.
Share of Commercial Impacts However, many traditional display advertising media have continued to decline in 2006, with the only major exception Our advertising revenues are based primarily on our share of being online advertising.
Although not immune to this decline, commercial impacts SOCI, with an impact measured as one television has proved more resilient than some other traditional person watching one thirty second advertisement defined as areas, such as radio.
Television remains the major brand building display advertising In 2006, ITVs total share of adult commercial impacts on UK medium.
Over the five years to 2006, televisions share of the UK television was 42.2% 2005: 44.6%.
The reduction in 2006 was display market has remained relatively stable at around 40%.
principally on ITV1 where a combination of factors was operating: The rapid growth in internet advertising is largely in search, The rapid take-up of digital multichannel television: which is brand searching in a similar fashion to direct marketing.
An increasing number of channels available to viewers in Internet display advertising has also grown in 2006, though it multichannel homes: represents less than a quarter of internet advertising growth.
Some weakness in ITV1s programming line-up including Freeview to overtake Sky in 2007 lower audiences for some long-running series: and Digital penetration at 80% 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Strong competition from digital channels.
million homes Whilst the development of the ITV family of channels has 10 mitigated some of the loss of market share from ITV1, it is also 8 clear that we must seek to improve the quality of programming 6 on ITV1 itself.
4 Revenues outside of traditional ITV1 net advertising revenue are 2 becoming increasingly important to the Company, and in 2006 these grew to over 41% of our total revenue vs 32% in 2005.
0 Dsat DTT Freeview Dcable ITV strength on Freeview Source: Ofcom DTV % SOCI from DTT adults peak time 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Platform growth ITV1 The growth of the Freeview platform has ensured that three Ch4 out of four households now have access to at least 30 television Five ITV3 channels.
As Freeview is the digital platform on which ITVs family ITV2 of channels has the highest viewing share, that digital take up E4 of Freeview is to the benefit of ITV.
In addition, nearly half of all UKTV History UK households have broadband internet access and mobile ITV4 More4 phone penetration is at more than 100%, with 3G penetration Sky Three rising more slowly.
These new platforms have resulted in shifts Film4 in viewing patterns and methods of consumption.
FTN E4 1 TMF The Hits Source: Barb Infosys, DTT Adults JanDec 06.
18 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Our market environment ITV Productions is one of Europes leading commercial production companies, and makes programmes in the UK for both ITV and other broadcasters.
19 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Spectrum usage in UK media WiFi TV GSM 3G Long wave Radio Medium wave Radio FM Radio Satellite Broadcasting B BBBB B BB VLF LF MF HF VHF UHF SHF EHF 3 30 300 3 30 300 3 30 300 kHz MHz GHz Increasing Range Decreasing Range Decreasing Bandwidth Increasing Bandwidth M C Source: Ofcom Content creation Under the Act, 25% of the time allocated to qualifying programmes i. e. all programmes except acquired material, news, As platforms and channels have multiplied, so has the demand repeats and party political broadcasts must be commissioned for and the value of content.
ITV Productions is one of Europes from independent producers who are not more than 25% owned leading commercial production companies, and makes by a broadcaster.
This condition is included in all regional Channel programmes in the UK for both ITV and other broadcasters.
3 licences as well as the arrangements for Channels 4 and 5, Within ITV Worldwide, our international production operations GMTV and the BBC.
The Act also requires every public service make programmes for broadcasters in the US, Germany broadcaster to have in place a code of practice for commissioning and Australia.
programmes from independent producers, and for these codes to As new distribution channels such as broadband and mobile be approved by Ofcom.
In addition, ITV1 seeks to commission at develop, creators of content like ITV will be able to access least 50% of qualifying programmes in terms of hours and viewers directly.
investment from outside the London area.
ITV Channel 3 licences run to the end of 2014 and may be Regulation renewed at ITVs option for a further 10 year period from that UK commercial television broadcasting is regulated under the point.
These licences include the obligation to broadcast Communications Act 2003 the Act by the communications simultaneously in analogue in each region until that region is industry regulator, Ofcom.
Ofcom has authority to impose fines, converted fully to digital transmission, with the final ITV regional and revoke or vary licences in pursuit of its consumer protection licence owned by the Company expected to convert fully by responsibilities relating to impartiality and accuracy of news 2012.
ITV pays a licence fee for its Channel 3 licences.
This fee was programming, taste and decency, the use of sponsorship and 51 million in 2006 and is expected to reduce to approximately the quantity and content of advertisements.
Advertising is also 4 million in constant prices when all regions have fully switched regulated by the Advertising Standards Authority.
In addition, Channel 3 licencees have to meet significant In July 2006 Ofcom consulted on proposals for the introduction of positive requirements covering, for example, original spectrum pricing for all users of spectrum including public service productions commissions, independent productions, news, broadcasters from 2014.
ITV does not support the introduction regional production, networking, equal opportunities, training, of spectrum pricing although, unlike most other public service provision for the deaf or hearing impaired and blind or partially broadcasters, ITV already pays for the spectrum it uses for its sighted, national television archiving, and party political television channels via cash payments as well as the delivery broadcasts.
of substantial public service obligations.
Ofcom has not yet issued a final position paper following its consultation.
Channel 3 licensees are required to fulfil their public service broadcasting PSB remit, requiring them to provide a range of high quality and diverse programming.
For ITV1, a significant share of its programme schedule airtime is filled with PSB programming, including: childrens, religion, current affairs, national and local news, and regional non-news programmes.
Whilst news is a core and fundamental part of ITV output, much of this other PSB airtime delivers low audiences.
20 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Our market environment The Communications Act contains provisions on cross-media Merger undertakings ownership and industry consolidation.
Cross-media ownership As a condition of the merger between Carlton and Granada rules prevent the owner of a national newspaper owning more to form ITV plc, undertakings were given in 2003 to the other than 20% of a Channel 3 licence.
On 17 November 2006, British regional Channel 3 licensees STV Central Limited formerly Sky Broadcasting BSkyB purchased a 17.9% shareholding in Scottish Television Limited, STV North Limited formerly ITV plc from other shareholders.
Ofcom is currently considering Grampian Television Limited, Ulster Television Limited and whether this shareholding constitutes a change of control Channel Television Limited.
These undertakings related to the of any of our Channel 3 licences, which would trigger a regulatory ITV1 network programme budget, the commissioning and review examining the possible impact of BSkyBs holding on broadcasting of programmes, and the sale of airtime.
areas such as regional programming.
The OFT is also separately considering whether BSkyBs acquisition gives rise to competition Undertakings were also provided in relation to measures to concerns and, in a third review, the Secretary of State has issued implement a system of Contract Rights Renewal CRR covering a Public Interest Intervention Notice requesting that Ofcom the sale of commercial airtime on ITV1.
CRR provides advertisers consider the effect of the acquisition on media plurality.
The DTI and media buyers the fallback option, for the duration of the has the power to refer BSkyBs holding to the Competition remedy, of renewing the terms of their 2003 pre ITV merger Commission for a further in-depth review of any consequent contracts without change except that where a contract competition and or public interest issues, in light of the OFTs specified a share of broadcast ie share of advertisers total and Ofcoms findings.
spend on UK television allocated to ITV1, this share varies in direct proportion to the reduction in ITV1's share of commercial ITV has also made submissions to a number of regulatory reviews impacts SOCI.
and consultations conducted over the year.
The legislative process to revise the Television Without Frontiers Directive which The CRR undertakings also include general obligations regarding sets the framework for much television regulation in the UK the terms offered by ITV for advertising on ITV1 to new continued throughout the year.
ITV is focusing on the case for a advertisers and media buyers, and to advertisers and media liberalisation of the rules on advertising and product placement: buyers seeking to vary or renegotiate their existing contracts.
to sustain a flourishing audio-visual industry in Europe which The effect of CRR, under the current system of contractual is able to invest in original European content.
Although the guarantees and caps, is that ITV is unable to pursue contract revision process is not yet complete some relaxation of these negotiations which reflect market conditions in the current rules is anticipated.
ITV was involved in debate on the advertising of foods with We believe CRR is having a detrimental impact on the interests high fat, salt and sugar HFSS content to children.
New Ofcom of ITV1 and all television advertisers and viewers.
We are seeking regulations will mean that the advertising of certain foods that a review of whether CRR continues to be an appropriate classify as having HFSS content will be restricted in programmes behavioural remedy.
of particular appeal to children.
The new restrictions came into Further information on the regulation of programmes and force in 2007. advertising is given in ITVs Corporate Responsibility report 2006 There have also been a number of regulatory and policy reviews which is available online at www.
of participation and quiz TV services, which include ITV Play programming.
The approach to the issue may also be impacted by developments at the EU level.
ITV has responded to all these processes outlining our compliance with the extensive regulations in place and the additional measures ITV takes to ensure that consumer interest is safeguarded, together with underlining the entertainment that this programming offers to viewers.
Ofcom announced a consultation in December 2006 as to how it should deal with the spectrum released following the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting in the UK a process which begins in 2008 and finishes in 2012, proposing an open auction of the spectrum which is released.
ITV, together with the other public service broadcasters, believes that such an approach is not necessarily in the long-term interests of viewers, in particular as it may not provide for an HD offering on the UKs freeview digital platform.
ITV will continue to push this case in 2007 as the consultation on the future use of spectrum continues.
