Corporate social responsibility report Supporting the people, communities and business J D Wetherspoon has ensured that significant progress continues to around us be made across all of previously listed areas.
Initiatives in progress include: Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is evolving within The Green Pub the development of a pub is planned in Melton J D Wetherspoon to become part of the day-to-day culture.
Mowbray, to be completed by the end of 2007.
This pub, which is Reinforced by regular meetings chaired by the commercial director, a new-build, has been designed and will incorporate all of the J D Wetherspoon actively fosters the preservation and protection available technological features and designs to minimise the of the environment, while recognising the wider social environmental impact on the planet.
The aim will be for this pub responsibility carried by our business, throughout our commercial to consume 50% less energy than similar pubs of its size.
Organic milk, free-range eggs, 100% British beef burgers and locally sourced regional dishes have all been added to J D Wetherspoons influence on the local community is strong, as J D Wetherspoons menu over recent years.
such, this influence carries a level of responsibility which we take very In 2005, several J D Wetherspoon pubs were surveyed by the seriously.
Over the past twelve months, we have gained recognition Carbon Trust.
These surveys identified a series of energy-saving from both national and local organisations, in several areas relating to opportunities, all of which will be implemented during autumn 2006. the environment and our corporate responsibilities.
A water-management system introduced into the urinals at our pubs has reduced overall water consumption by 20%.
Examples of awards received in 2006 include: Pub recycling in 2005 2006, J D Wetherspoon Winner of the 2005 Responsible Drinks Retailing Award, was able to recycle: sponsored by the Morning Advertiser.
This award recognises 1,420 tonnes of used cooking oil.
companies which have made a significant contribution towards the 2,300 tonnes of cardboard.
Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy introduced by the government in 27 tonnes of aluminium.
J D Wetherspoon won this award in 2005 for its approach 70 tonnes of plastic.
towards timed drinking offers and the responsible selling of alcohol.
We are the first pub company to be recognised, by the Department of Work and Over the next twelve months, this will be extended to include Pensions, for employing a mix-age workforce.
The award is ink cartridges and glass.
designed to promote the benefits of employing those of all ages and tackle age discrimination in the work place.
J D Wetherspoon remains committed to its nominated charity Winner of the Menu Masters 2005 kids category, sponsored by CLIC Sargent.
Since its association with this charity, the Food Development Association FDA.
J D Wetherspoon won J D Wetherspoon has raised 1,330,591.36.
Over the past twelve this award in 2005 for the quality, range and nutritional value of its months, we have raised 425,646.68 that has been included in childrens menu.
Runner-up in the National Recycling Awards 2005.
In the category of best retailer initiative, J D Wetherspoon was recognised The environmental policy is reviewed at least annually by the and highly commended for the recycling initiative at our national board of directors, so as to ensure that it reflects the needs of the distribution centre based in Daventry.
business and addresses all current and relevant environmental issues.
For the sixth consecutive year, J D Wetherspoon has been It is the policy of the company to: included in the FTSE4Good Index, designed to identify those companies with good records in corporate social responsibility.
minimise the extent of the environmental impact of its The main selection criteria cover three areas: operations, as far as is reasonably practicable.
strive to minimise any emissions or effluent which Working towards environmental sustainability may cause environmental damage.
Developing positive relationships with stakeholders conserve energy through minimising consumption and Upholding and supporting Universal Human Rights maximising efficiency.
minimise the use of materials which may be harmful to the environment.
promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise waste and allow materials to be recycled, where appropriate.
adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or to other disposal sites.
raise awareness of environmental issues among all of its employees and suppliers partners.
ethically source products, with an understanding of the environmental impact at the place of origin.
minimise the environmental impact of transport, by ensuring that maximum use is made of our fleet of delivery vehicles, by collecting products from our suppliers, wherever possible.
