42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Supporting our communities We encourage all our companies and people to support charitable and community initiatives around the world.
We have a well-established corporate community programme and have been running an Employee Community Fund for more than 10 years now, supporting charities and fundraising efforts already involving our employees around the world.
Wood Group also offers support to a range of local & international charities, covering health, education, the arts, and the prevention and reduction of poverty and hardship.
Photo List Two employees took to the air to raise money for UK lifeboat charity.
Wood Group supports the annual Toys for Tots campaign in Houston which collects presents for needy children.
Wood Group in Colombia held a Christmas party for children cared for by the Pronino Foundation, which looks after abandoned children.
Special Olympics Read more below.
 More than 70 families take part in Safety Day organised by Wood Group in Venezuela.
Latin lessons Read more below.
Wood Group supported Aberdeens Raeden Centre, an assessment and treatment centre for pre-school children with suspected or known physical disability, developmental delay or behavioural problems.
The MS150 Life Cycle Read more below.
Wood Group provides support to communities living in New Orleans, Louisiana affected by hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
Volunteers from Wood Group transforming the playground of the local school in Zapara, Venezuela.
Our strategy in action Worldwide support Special Olympics Latin lessons This year we helped ten talented swimmers In Venezuela, Wood Group decided to invest for communities in the Special Olympics Grampian Team to in local education.
We teamed up with take part in the first British National Special Petrobras to add an extra classroom to the Olympics swimming championships.
The community school near the Oritupano Field.
contestants won a total of eight gold, four silver Employees and contractors transformed a and five bronze medals and broke 16 of their playground for children on the island of Zapara personal best times.
One of the team has also in the Venezuelan Gulf.
And we also funded been selected to join the Great Britain Team at a 6th grade course for the Santa Maria City the World Special Olympic Games in Shanghai, Formation Center CISAMA, east of Caracas.
Stephen Faleye, Pipeline Engineer Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 43 Photo opportunity?
The MS150 Life Cycle A charitable bunch As part of our support for employee fundraising A Houston-based Wood Group team got on J P Kenny employees had a busy year initiatives, everyone who agreed to be their bikes again in 2006 to raise more than supporting local charities.
Of the many events photographed for this years Annual Report and $106,000 for the National Multiple Sclerosis that took place around the world highlights Accounts was offered a donation to the charity Society.
Wood Group is one of only four teams included a beard-growing fundraiser for of their choice.
Over 90 employees took part, to cycle in all three Texas tours: the BP MS150 prostate cancer in Perth, Australia and a charity their patience and good humour were greatly Houston to Austin, Sams Club MS 150 event held in aid of a number of schools and appreciated, and donations have been made to Dallas to Ft. Worth and Valero MS 150 San orphanages near Wood Groups of ce in over 90 organisations as a result.
Employees visited five schools and orphanages where they donated educational material and clothes and were entertained by more than 250 children.
Hilary Trammell, Training Coordinator Captain - Wood Group MS150 cycllng team 44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Thank you We invited many of our employees to participate in this annual report and we would like to thank them for giving us permission to use their pictures.
Alan Latham Gary Sutton Malcolm Campbell Alan Pirie Gordon Stirling Marlon Chanakira Alberto Rozo Gregor Dunn Mayra Sanchez Anand Chawla Henry Onatra Mel Nellis Andres Felipe Barn Hilary Trammel Michele McNichol Andrew Mcfarlane Humberto Cortes Nancy Chafe Andy Walsh Iain Murray Natasha Fahmi Arlene Cabuk Irene Emslie Neil Meldrum Ayman Eltaher Jai Dhodhi Oscar Acosta Bob Barnett Jan Rogers Rachael Campbell Bob McIntosh Janet Smith Roland Marroquin Boris Aranovich Jay Walsh Ron Bird Carlos Arturo Gonzalez Jeremy Flessner Ronnie King Carol Forbes Jim Dickson Sander Ray Chan Nguyen Jim Ewen Scott Bender Chinedu Okorro Joanna Dickson Scott Leitko Claire Ingram Joaquin Obregon Scott Murray Claire ONeill Joe Moran Sharon Mcfarlane Clyde Self Juan Carlos Sanabria Stephen Faleye Cody Mullins Julie Matthew Steve Knowles Dan Simonelli Julio Vazquez Steve Will David Nguyen Karen Haslauer Steven Mans eld Debbie Lee Kate Glass Stuart Newlands Dennis Chastain Kathryn Petrie Teckle Zemicael Derek Blackwood Katy Gifford Temitope Kassim Doug Johle Keith Krenek Trey Lambert Douglas Cromar Ken McCombie Vegar Hollas Ed Dannhaus Kevin Moran Vijay Gandla Elizabeth Bentley Lidia Maldonado Wayne Mueller Ellen Toogood Lisa Clark Yolanda McCoy Errol Eccles Louise Papiez Zoila Medina Fernando Bastidas Luis Cortes Jr. Gabriela Pedroza Luke Newcomb Energy Supporting Energy
