16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Earning our clients trust We believe we must earn our clients trust every day on every job.
Trust is fundamental to the long term relationships we have with major international operators, national oil companies, independent oil companies and power companies throughout the world.
Our ability to provide solutions and add value to our clients businesses is our clear differentiation.
Our performance is based on commitment and reliability, with our reward often tied into measured improvement in the clients processes.
In 2006, we received many client testimonials recognising the quality of our solutions, products and services and our responsiveness, teamwork and technical excellence.
We are proud that Wood Group is a partner and supplier that clients can rely on.
26% growth in revenues Our strategy in action Mustang has the ability to staff We are very pleased to have appointed J P Kenny is an outstanding subsea simultaneously several projects for us with Wood Group to operate the SSP300 FPSO company and fully met the criteria high quality people.
They have consistently in the Chestnut eld, central North Sea.
of signi cant growth in the last year, We are sure Wood Group will provide a national & international pro le and provided quality project teams.
safe and effective operation for what will reputation, recognised business and Gary H. Hagstrom, be one of the smallest stand-alone oil eld technical excellence.
It also demonstrated General Manager, Project Resources commitment to staff development and developments yet in the North Sea.
Mike Wagstaff, Chief Executive, Venture Production David Pridden, Chief Executive Subsea UK Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 17 This represents only a small selection of our valued customers.
At the same time as achieving One of the reasons we hired Wood aggressive growth in production, we Group is their ability to adapt to emergent have achieved important improvements situations.
When faced with a challenge, in the running life of the electric submersible they step up to the task.
The teamwork has been a key factor in the overcoming of obstacles and challenges that have James T Murray, Technical Manager, Power Generation risen during our operations.
We are grateful for your El Paso Amazonas Energia Ltda.
commitment year on year, and I thank you for your valuable contribution and efforts.
Alberto Enrique Gill, C. O. O. Pan American Energy LLC
