34 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Caring for our people, communities and the environment 2006 Corporate and Social Responsibility Highlights With E!CEMS, On the road to Our environmental change is in the air safer driving team Mustangs E!CEMS is a real-time Driving is statistically one of the most Our power station operations & environmental data management system dangerous activities human beings maintenance environmental team designed to help hydrocarbon processing engage in, yet accidents on the road can provides strategy development services facilities within the US to monitor environmental be prevented if the right driving habits are to both power developers and bio-diesel regulatory compliance requirements.
A robust, learned, practiced and consistently applied.
manufacturers looking to license new web-enabled and certi able system, it captures, Our Logging Services people spend much projects.
We fide ne the needs with the calculates, records and reports regulatory air of their time visiting well sites, so we now customer, outline the most projectemissions data automatically.
require them to complete the Smith driving appropriate plan, and provide project programme.
We have also offered it to all management.
We have successfully driving-age employee family members.
supported three Gulf-based companies on the licensing of new projects, and are working with them on the roll-out into longterm operations and maintenance.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 35 Maintaining a healthy workplace, preventing accidents and minimising adverse environmental impacts are at the top of our business objectives.
Achieving the desired standards of behaviour requires the right culture internally.
International Virtual Pipeline Manager Industry award for collaboration for the Caspian corporate leadership As a long term supporter of the Aberdeen Multiphase Solutions Inc. a Wood Group The Minerals Management Service MMS International Youth Festival, Wood Group company has won a contract with Agip is the United States federal agency that is now the sponsor of the workshop and KCO to provide two independent pipeline manages the nations natural gas, oil community programme that offers local facilities management systems, designed and other mineral resources on the outer young people the opportunity to work to help improve overall operational continental shelf.
MMS awarded Wood alongside international participants in safety and protect Kazakhstans natural Group Production Services the Corporate sessions with experienced professional resources and environment.
Virtual Leadership Award in recognition of the artists.
The annual summer festival brings Pipeline Manager enables users to monitor training programme it developed to together talented young performers and the integrity of pipelines and associated assist its employees during regulatory artists from all over the world who create facilities, detecting any product releases in inspections.
and present performances that re ect the environmentally sensitive areas of the their different cultures and provide colour, Caspian and the Ural River.
spectacle and entertainment to the public.
