40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Environment matters We aim to do all we can to minimise the adverse environmental impacts of our operations.
In 2006, Wood Group companies were involved in a number of environmental projects and initiatives to deliver improvements in the work place and the communities in which we operate.
As a contractor, we believe we have a duty to our clients to assist them in every possible way to achieve their environmental standards.
The case studies on this page are examples of our environmental work in 2006.
Our strategy in action Mustangs Smart move Working with our clients to reduce Mustangs LNG Smart Air Vaporisation they signed the first contract for a  Process captures the natural heat in ambient scale application of the process.
air and humidity to vaporise lique ed natural impacts gas LNG, and signi cantly reduces emissions.
The contract for infrastructure enhancement at It provides equally signi cant savings in Lake Charles includes the installation of Smart operating costs.
Trunkline LNG Company were technology, plus a natural gas liquids NGL quick to see the potential in this for their LNG extraction plant to recover ethane and heavier terminal in Lake Charles, Louisiana, and in July hydrocarbons from the LNG stream.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Operational review and Financial review and Financial statements CSR governance 41 After the storms: Surelock in the Underwater views of the slip-on wellhead system.
Gulf of Mexico After hurricanes Katrina and Rita, over 100 xed platforms and 1,000 wells in the Gulf of Mexico were damaged beyond repair.
For our customers, safely abandoning the wells was going to be a key challenge.
Ethical abandonment of the wells demanded dedicated skills and extraordinary efforts in already compromised working environments.
Pressure Control worked with companies specialising in well abandonment to adapt a surface wellhead system into an ef cient, lowcost, diver-assisted, slip-on wellhead system that stabilised debris, cut off casings below the collapse point, lowered the wellhead to seal over the stubs and cemented over the top.
Over 80 abandonments have been nished, with 150 more planned.
Pipeline integrity: a matter of accuracy Our materials integrity team have developed Corrosion Direct Assessment on a portion of a propietary data translation algorithm to its high-pressure natural gas pipeline, pictured accurately assess the condition of buried right.
Thanks to our invention their corrosion pipelines and to present it in an accessible engineers and technicians have been able to way so that customers know where the accurately anticipate necessary work, and problems are.
An American operator in a High prevent unnecessary work, contributing to the Consequence Area one of high population continued safe operation of the companys concentration or environmental sensitivity pipeline assets.
engaged our team to conduct External Roland Marroquin, Field Sales, Pressure Control
