Johnson Matthey Products and Technologies Corporate Social Responsibility Many of our products and technologies have a particularly Johnson Matthey embraces a culture of continuous positive social and environmental impact.
They range from improvement in all aspects of corporate social responsibility anticancer compounds to emission control technologies for cars, CSR.
Our business objective is to deliver sustainable increases trucks and buses, with the latter making a vital contribution to in shareholder value through consistent and above average improving air quality and public health around the world.
In growth in earnings per share, with growth in dividends in line addition, Johnson Matthey products and technologies have a with growth in earnings.
This is achieved through the significant role to play in the energy sector as we strive for development of high added value products and services in improved energy efficiency, cleaner lower carbon fuels and areas where our expertise provides competitive advantage, ultimately the transition to hydrogen as a key energy carrier specifically in our chosen fields of catalysis, precious metals, fine in conjunction with carbon capture and sequestration.
In this chemicals and materials technology.
CSR improvement is driven context our products range from chemical process catalysts by robust corporate policies, a comprehensive management which improve resource use, yield and overall efficiency of many system and the commitment of our staff.
There are three key industrial processes to fuel cell technologies which aim to make policy areas which provide the framework for the management an important contribution to the generation of electricity for of corporate social responsibility: Environment, Health and static and mobile applications with zero emissions at the point Safety EHS : Employment: and Business Integrity and Ethics.
The stabilisation of the worlds climate will require a Innovation and technical leadership are at the very heart significant contribution from industry in exploiting the of our business.
We endeavour to apply our expertise to opportunity to develop more sustainable solutions for its exploiting technology and developing products and services customers and by moving to more resource and energy efficient which support sustainable development by creating wealth manufacturing processes.
This presents a number of business whilst making a positive contribution to the environment and opportunities where Johnson Matthey products and adding to improved health and social wellbeing.
In managing our technologies could be the key enabler in delivering long term business we seek to engender these aspirations at all levels of environmental benefits to society with the generation of further our organisation and to encourage similar sentiments in those value for our shareholders.
Further details of Johnson Mattheys with whom we work.
activities in addressing the challenges of future energy supply and Johnson Matthey operates in accordance with well alternative energy sources are described on pages 34 to 37. established ethical, social and environmental policies.
Over the Hand in hand with product innovation, product safety is last year further initiatives have been undertaken to improve critical to Johnson Matthey and sophisticated systems are in our operational performance in these important areas.
Details place to ensure that a high level of protection is afforded to of these initiatives can be found in the Johnson Matthey our customers.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report and are presented here Whilst Johnson Mattheys main contribution to sustainable in summary.
The full report can be found on the companys development will be through the excellence of our products website at www.
we also seek to achieve similar levels of excellence in the During the year a CSR Compliance Committee was management of the business and in the quality of our established as a sub-committee of the Chief Executives manufacturing operations.
Our expertise in processing valuable Committee CEC, with specific responsibility for setting and precious metal materials provides us with a core competence overseeing compliance with the standards for group CSR in the conservation, re-use and recycling of natural resources: performance through the development, adoption, dissemination principles which are applied throughout our business.
and implementation of appropriate group policies and other operational measures.
The introduction of a formal CSR Stakeholder Engagement Compliance Committee allows more time to be devoted to Johnson Matthey undertakes a wide range of engagement these important topics.
The CSR Compliance Committee activities focused on communication with individuals and comprises the division directors and senior representatives of organisations who are impacted by its operations or who may Group Legal, Internal Audit and Group EHS.
In addition, key impact on the Johnson Matthey business, both at corporate and CSR issues continue to be reviewed by the CEC on a monthly divisional level.
These include shareholders, fund managers, basis with the Audit Committee reviewing the business risks employees, customers, communities and national and international associated with CSR as a matter of routine.
Johnson Matthey has also continued to play As outlined in the Corporate Governance section a leading advisory role through its participation in a number see page 43 the board has embedded corporate social of sector trade associations and government bodies.
The responsibility into its risk management process.
The board company is actively involved with national and local government reviews CSR matters on a formal basis every year.
Corporate to inform the development of policy in areas where Johnson social responsibility is championed at the highest level at Matthey technology and products can play a pivotal role, for Johnson Matthey and the board has reviewed and endorsed example in improving air quality, enabling the shift towards more the full report.
sustainable consumption and production and facilitating the transition to a low carbon economy.
Further details of Johnson Mattheys stakeholder engagement activities can be found in the CSR report on the companys website at www.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 27 Operating and Financial Review Total Acid Gas Emissions Total Global Warming Potential Energy Consumption Water Consumption 3 Tonnes SO equivalent Tonnes CO equivalent 000 GJ 000 Thousands m 2 2 1,000 500 6,000 2,800 2,400 5,000 800 400 2,000 4,000 600 300 1,600 3,000 1,200 400 200 2,000 800 200 100 1,000 400 0 0 0 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Environment, Health and Safety ISO 14001 Over the past year continued progress has been made with Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities the implementation of ISO 14001, in line with our target of throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of achieving registration at all major manufacturing sites by 2010. protection to the environment and to safeguard the health and Across the group, 59% of our staff now work at sites with safety of its employees, customers and the community.
The ISO 14001 an increase of 6% on 2004 05, representing some companys EHS policies provide the guiding principles that 4,641 people.
In addition a number of sites upgraded their ensure high standards are achieved at all sites around the world registration to the new ISO 14001:2004 standard.
and afford a means of promoting continuous improvement Five manufacturing sites across the group have already based on careful risk assessment and a comprehensive EHS implemented plans to achieve ISO 14001 registration during management system.
The corporate objectives, policies and group EHS management system define accountability and set the standards Regulation against which conformance audits are assessed.
A fundamental Johnson Matthey continued to play an active role in industry revision of the group EHS management system was undertaken representations on the proposed Registration, Evaluation and during 2005 to reflect regulatory changes and advances in best Authorisation of Chemicals REACH regulations up to the practice.
These policies were communicated across the group vote in the EU Parliament and the political decision made by in early 2006.
The group EHS management system is available the EU Council in 2005.
It is expected that the regulations will to all employees via the company intranet.
A revised health be adopted in 2007 without further significant change.
As a management strategy established in 2005 has been embedded result, efforts are now focused on the implementation of the into corporate objectives, policies and the group EHS regulations and in minimising costs by working with industry management system.
consortia within the sectors where Johnson Matthey is active.
EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson The costs associated with implementing the regulations remain Mattheys corporate EHS management system and are vital to at an estimated 10 million over a ten year period, assuming the achievement of continuous improvement in all aspects of collaboration and pooling of costs within the industry.
All Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing and research resources will be strengthened as appropriate to ensure the and development facilities are included in the audit programme.
successful implementation of these important regulations.
Audits review conformance with the group EHS management The European Emissions Trading Scheme operated during system and compliance with national legislation.
The audit the year, having commenced in January 2005.
Three European frequency for each facility is determined by the scale, inherent sites fall under the directive, two in Spain and one in the UK.
risk and past performance of the operation.
The two Spanish sites continue to operate within their Audit reports are rated as excellent, routine, important prescribed allowances and the UK site benefits from the or very important.
The CSR Compliance Committee reviews opt-out applicable to UK sites participating in the pre-existing all audit reports and appropriate follow up is taken on any Climate Change Agreement Scheme.
A total of 29 compliance audits were completed during 2005 06 against a group target of 25.
- Johnson Matthey 28 Total Waste Annual Accident Rate per 1,000 Employees Tonnes waste 40,000 35 30 30,000 25 20 20,000 15 10 10,000 5 0 0 March 01 March 02 March 03 March 04 March 05 March 06 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 All accidents 3 Day accidents Training The introduction of a formal reporting system for all types Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in of occupational illness has improved identification and provided a environmental, health and safety performance at all our sites.
more accurate measurement of the incidence of such conditions.
Over the past year staff of all grades have received training from Sickness absence performance will now be reported formally the wide range of courses available, including IOSH Institute of and will receive greater management attention.
The incidence Occupational Safety and Health accredited courses on managing of occupational asthma and dermatitis has been benchmarked safely and site safety practices.
Continuing emphasis is placed on against the rest of the chemical industry.
These conditions have process hazard assessment training at all levels in the business.
been allocated the highest priority for investment in risk Our major sites employ environment, health and safety training reduction measures in order to reduce their incidence.
Expert external trainers supplement in house More emphasis will also be placed on ergonomic risk capabilities where necessary.
management to prevent musculoskeletal conditions and on During the last year senior managers undertook formal wellness programmes to improve musculoskeletal health and policy awareness training that covered the spectrum of group reduce susceptibility to such injuries.
policies including those applicable to EHS and the revised Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics group EHS management system.
In addition many managers are compiled monthly at a group level.
Our performance has completed the IOSH accredited safety management for shown an improvement over the past year with a reduction in executives training.
This will be ongoing, covering senior as the incidence of greater than three day accidents at Johnson well as middle management within the group.
Matthey from 6.39 to 4.35 per 1,000 employees.
The group A major accomplishment this year was the launch of the target to reduce the greater than three day accident rate to AirsWeb accident and incident reporting software system.
5.00 before the year 2008 was surpassed in September 2005.
During the year a series of training sessions were completed The total number of accidents that resulted in lost time was 84, worldwide on the new system, including briefings for all site, a 33% reduction compared to the previous year.
During the general and senior management within the group.
same period there was a decrease in the number of days lost per year per 1,000 employees from 248 to 103.
Regrettably, an employee of Precious Metal Products Environmental, Health and Safety Performance Divisions Precision Castings business at St Catharines, Canada, Johnson Matthey undertakes a comprehensive annual review sustained a serious head injury at work while operating a hand of group environmental performance covering all manufacturing held grinding tool and subsequently died from these injuries.
and research and development facilities.
Where necessary, past A full investigation, led by the local authorities, has been environmental data has been restated to reflect changes in the completed and Johnson Matthey awaits the outcome of their business, for example divestments and site closure.
This was the first fatality within Johnson Matthey in During the year an improvement in our environmental over 25 years.
performance has been achieved as a number of initiatives During the year Johnson Matthey was prosecuted by the introduced in previous years have yielded reductions in our key Health and Safety Executive in connection with an incident at emissions.
As we seek to continue this trend, the majority of the Brimsdown, UK plant where an employee was seriously our sites in Europe have set new environmental improvement injured during the operation of a reverberatory furnace in 2002. targets this year, with major sites across the rest of the world due to set their targets during 2006 07.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 29 Operating and Financial Review The company pleaded guilty and was fined 50,000 in This policy and its associated procedures are designed to January 2006. achieve the following corporate objectives: A number of safety themed seminars have been completed That all locations meet legal and group environment, health in order to raise awareness of pertinent safety issues and share and safety requirements.
best working practices across the group.
Seminars undertaken during the past year included machinery safety and chlorine That the design, manufacture and supply of products is use in the refining and manufacture of pgm salts.
undertaken so as to satisfy world class standards of health, The AirsWeb accident and incident reporting system has safety, environmental management and resource efficiency.
been successfully introduced and sites worldwide are using it That management systems are effective in maintaining for reporting accidents to group.
A significant number of sites standards and fulfilling the challenge of securing continuous are also using AirsWeb to report on non-injury incidents, improvement in environmental, health and safety learning incidents, environmental incidents and cases of performance.
In order to achieve these objectives we will: Environmental, Health and Safety Targets Provide leadership and commitment as an expression of the importance that the board and the senior Johnson Matthey aims to continually improve environmental management team places on EHS issues.
During 2005 the company established five year absolute reduction targets at the majority of its European sites Ensure accountability by holding corporate management covering environmental impacts pertinent to the specific facility and senior executives within each operating division and or operation.
Examples of the targets set include: business unit responsible for EHS performance.
A 50% reduction in the amount of waste produced at Provide the financial and human resources to allow EHS Joiners Square, Stoke-on-Trent, UK Ceramics Division by issues to be given an appropriate level of priority.
improving the clay body manufacturing process and the Provide good communication internally and externally and development of raw material recycling systems.
encourage employee involvement and cooperation at all A 10% reduction in the total annual energy usage at Noble levels in the organisation in meeting EHS objectives.
Metals, Royston, UK Precious Metal Products Division by Ensure competence on EHS matters through education, investment in improved technology induction furnaces.
training and awareness at all levels in the organisation, A reduction in process wastewater of 50% at Emmerich, including creating an understanding of individual Germany Catalysts Division by means of ion exchange responsibilities for health, safety and the environment.
and osmosis technologies that will reduce the demand for Undertake assessments to identify the risks to health, fresh water by recycling used process water.
safety and the environment from company operations and Each business will develop and implement an annual health ensure that appropriate control measures are implemented.
management plan to target investment in programmes that will Ensure that new investments incorporate best practice and have the greatest impact on reducing health risks and costs and promote innovation through their design and operation to improving productivity.
A specific target has been set for all eliminate or minimise risks to health, safety and the businesses to improve occupational illness identification and environment.
One of the key aims of Johnson Matthey is to demonstrate Investigate incidents to identify the root cause and take continuous improvement in safety performance.
With the action to prevent recurrence.
attainment of the group target to reduce the greater than three Promote programmes to achieve energy and resource day accident rate to 5.00 in September 2005, the CEC has set efficiency.
a new group target of zero greater than three day accidents.
The new target was introduced from April 2006.
Set key corporate objectives and performance targets The Ceramics Division has set a target that all that can be measured and assessed, reporting results manufacturing sites within the division will attain OHSAS 18001 in a meaningful and transparent way both internally registration before 2010. and externally.
Undertake regular EHS inspections and audits of Environmental, Health and Safety Policy Statement operations, and review performance, to ensure continuous The Chief Executives Committee formulates and agrees a improvement in EHS management.
written policy statement which forms the basis of the group The group EHS management system is reviewed regularly EHS management system.
The board approves this policy to ensure that it reflects international best practice and our statement which is signed by the Chief Executive and is growing understanding of the practical application of sustainable available at each site throughout the Johnson Matthey group, development.
as well as being published externally.
- Johnson Matthey 30 Human Capital Management Training and Development of People Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of recruiting the Johnson Mattheys people are the groups most valuable very highest calibre of employees, training them to achieve resource.
We are committed to recruiting high calibre challenging standards in the performance of their jobs, and employees and providing them with the information, training helping them develop to their maximum potential.
and working environment they need in order to perform at the Our policy requires careful and regular reviews of highest standards.
We encourage all our employees to develop organisation structure, succession planning and the to their maximum potential and we are committed to development of high potential people to meet our business supporting them with effective human resources policies and goals.
The Management Development and Remuneration practices that are strategically linked to the needs of our Committee of the board takes a special interest in ensuring business and our customers.
compliance with the Training and Development of People Policy objectives to: Implementation of Johnson Matthey Human Resources Policies Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
Johnson Mattheys people policies are implemented through the corporate human resources standards which set requirements Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
for operations throughout the group to follow.
These standards Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
are supported either by detailed regional procedures and or business unit procedures.
Policies reflect both regional best Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
Site specific human resources Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
policies and procedures are communicated to staff at inductions Understand employees aspirations.
Human resources policies and risks are examined by the Chief Executives Committee and the Provide development opportunities to meet employees CSR Compliance Committee.
Johnson Matthey recognises the need to maintain its ability Employment Policies to recruit well qualified staff to support the development of the Equal Opportunities business in new and emerging markets.
This challenge will be It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and develop met through appropriate manpower planning, local recruitment employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of and the encouragement of international mobility.
An increasing gender, ethnic origin, age, religion or sexual orientation.
Disabled level of training and development activity within Asia has been people and employees who become disabled are offered established to reflect the growing importance of this region to employment consistent with their capabilities.
In addition to local process operator training, values the diversity of its people and employment applications supervisor development and management initiatives, there have are welcomed from all sections of the community including been two major cross divisional programmes for managers minority groups.
from within the Asian region, centred in Tokyo, Japan in July 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 31 Operating and Financial Review Total Employees by Region Total Employees by Division Gender by Region Employee Turnover by Region Average headcount for calendar year 2005 Average headcount for calendar year 2005 As at 31st December 2005 For calendar year 2005 % % Male % Female Voluntary Employee turnover employee due to restructuring, turnover divestment or retirement 100 15 Rest of Corporate World 251 644 Ceramics 80 12 710 Asia Catalysts 683 Europe Pharmaceutical Materials 4,050 3,951 60 9 585 40 6 Precious Metal North 20 3 Products America 1,808 2,126 0 0 Europe North Asia Rest of Group Europe North Asia Rest of Group America World America World and Shanghai, China in March 2006.
Cross cultural awareness The company supports employee share ownership and training continues to be an important component of career where practicable offers employees the opportunity to foundation, middle manager and senior manager development participate in share ownership plans which provide the facility worldwide.
to purchase company shares with a company funded matching Johnson Matthey continues to have a steady requirement component.
Employees in six countries worldwide are able to for high calibre graduate recruits to meet immediate technical contribute to a company share ownership plan or a 401k and commercial job needs and for development to meet future approved savings investment plan.
Through these ownership management requirements throughout the group.
The plans Johnson Matthey current and former employees combination of direct scientific contact with key university collectively held 1.4% of the companys shares at 31st March departments and a streamlined recruitment procedure ensures 2006.
During the year the companys annual share matching a reliable supply of high calibre applicants worldwide.
contribution amounted to 2.0% of profit before tax, impairment and restructuring costs.
Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for Employee Relations and Communication employees of its operations throughout the world.
These The quality of its employee relationships is a priority for pension plans are a mixture of defined benefit or defined Johnson Matthey.
The company has a low voluntary staff contribution pension arrangements, savings schemes and turnover 8.0% in the calendar year 2005 with many provident funds designed to provide appropriate retirement employees staying with the company for their whole careers.
benefits based on local laws, custom and market practice.
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective Activities over the Last Year employee communications and particularly the value of face to There have been a number of key development initiatives at face dialogue.
Information and comment is exchanged with Johnson Matthey sites during the past year.
Improvements to employees through the companys in house magazine, regular employee communications have focused on the use of site news bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
satisfaction and attitude surveys as a means of strengthening Employees are also encouraged to access the companys and enhancing the two way dialogue with employees.
A particular feature of these activities has been the Johnson Matthey continues to maintain good and continuing development of flexible working arrangements and constructive relations with all recognised trade unions which the further promotion of employee wellbeing through lifestyle collectively represent 36% of all group employees worldwide.
awareness and health education and screening programmes.
Johnson Matthey facilities have established policies and In 2005 06 a major initiative was launched to provide procedures through which employees can raise employment policy awareness training for senior managers covering their related issues for meaningful consideration and resolution.
responsibilities for compliance with Johnson Matthey policies These arrangements have been further strengthened during the for employees, commercial contracts and the management year and in the US a confidential telephone helpline has been of company assets.
Over 100 senior managers will attend established to give all employees the means to raise any issue these seminars during the first year.
A parallel programme of personal concern.
of e-learning is also underway in the US.
- Johnson Matthey 32 Community Engagement Activities Social and Ethical Matters Johnson Matthey is actively involved in programmes worldwide Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement that promote good community relations to foster a relationship A reputation for integrity has been a cornerstone of Johnson of understanding, trust and credibility.
Guidance on site Mattheys business since Percival Norton Johnson founded it in requirements is detailed in the group EHS management system.
It gives customers the confidence that the companys An annual review of community engagement activities products meet the standards claimed for them and that they across the group has been carried out and shows that 95% may safely entrust their own precious metals to Johnson Matthey of all Johnson Matthey operations with over 50 employees for processing and safe keeping.
Employees at all levels are participate in activities within their local communities, a similar required to protect Johnson Mattheys reputation for integrity.
These activities are wide ranging and The company strives to maintain the highest standards of include charitable giving, support for educational projects, the ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide through advancement of science and economic regeneration projects.
the application of the following principles: Johnson Matthey employees also participate in activities or hold Compliance with national and international laws and community related roles outside of the work environment.
The company is supportive of this broader community engagement, regulations is required as a minimum standard.
allowing employees time off during working hours as appropriate.
Reputable business practices must be applied worldwide.
Overall, there has been an increase in the number of Johnson Conflicts of interest must be declared and appropriate Matthey sites both large and small that participate in community arrangements made to ensure that those with a material engagement activities.
The review demonstrates that more sites interest are not involved in the decision making process.
are setting objectives and have specific budgets allocated to their community programmes.
Improper payments of any kind are prohibited, similarly no We will continue to encourage sites worldwide to engage gift whose value is material and which may be interpreted and invest in their local communities.
Over the next year, as a form of inducement should be accepted or offered by community engagement activity plans at sites worldwide will Johnson Matthey employees.
be supported by further development of group guidelines and Reporting of business performance should be undertaken tools to assist their implementation, as well as sharing of best in such a way that senior management is fully and properly practice.
A review of site community engagement activities will informed concerning the business true performance, risks be conducted once again and we will continue to focus on how and opportunities in a timely manner.
best to measure and improve the impact of our community involvement.
Ethical issues must be dealt with in an efficient and transparent manner.
Charitable Programmes Johnson Mattheys long history of support for charitable causes A positive contribution to society as a whole, and specifically is matched today through programmes at both a group and a to the communities in which we operate, must be ensured.
The causes supported are aligned to issues We must seek to influence our suppliers to operate to to which the Johnson Matthey business makes a contribution similar high standards as ourselves.
and issues on which employees are passionate.
In 2005 06, Johnson Matthey supported 51 charitable We support the principles set out within the United causes through its corporate annual donations programme.
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International These included support for organisations working in the areas Labour Organisation Core Conventions.
of arts and the environment, medical and health, science and All employees have a duty to follow the principles set out education and social welfare.
53% of these corporate donations in this policy statement.
It is the responsibility of directors and were in support of social welfare causes.
A total of 24 additional senior management to ensure that all employees who directly or charitable causes received one-off donations through the indirectly report to them are fully aware of Johnson Mattheys corporate programme during the year.
policies and values in the conduct of the companys businesses.
In the UK, Johnson Matthey continues to operate its annual It is also the responsibility of directors and senior management Charity of the Year programme and employee views are to lead by example and to demonstrate the highest standards considered when deciding on the charity.
Breakthrough Breast of integrity in carrying out their duties on behalf of the company.
Cancer was chosen as our charity of the year for 2005 06 and These issues are further safeguarded through corporate further details on the partnership are available in the CSR governance processes and monitoring by the board and report.
Johnson Matthey sites around the world also lend sub-committees of the board.
support to many other charities locally and nationally through Supply Chains donations, employee time or loans of company facilities.
Management of the supply chain and contractor activities is a In response to the Asian Tsunami disaster, Johnson Matthey core component of the group EHS management system.
Whilst pledged US$100,000 to go towards specific reconstruction we are confident of the human rights performance of our own projects in the affected area.
Three projects in Sri Lanka have operations we recognise that business practices in the supply now been identified and funds allocated, further details of which chain are not always transparent and represent a risk that must can be found in the CSR report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 33 Operating and Financial Review In the financial year to 31st March 2006 Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey Products, Technology and Research donated 340,000 to charitable organisations.
This figure only Business Opportunities in Todays Carbon World includes donations made by Johnson Matthey and does not In todays carbon world where fossil fuels are the dominant include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee source of both energy and many raw materials, Johnson time.
The company made no political donations in the year.
Mattheys products and technologies are already helping to improve the resource efficiency of our industrial customers, Verification clean and purify fuels before use and contribute to the reduction of emissions and the abatement of greenhouse gases.
The board, Audit Committee, Chief Executives Committee and Johnson Matthey is a world leader in the manufacture and CSR Compliance Committee review CSR issues as part of the development of chemical process catalysts which are used in companys risk management processes.
A review of site based a range of industrial processes.
These include the generation environment, health and safety reporting systems forms part of of commodity feedstocks such as hydrogen, methanol and the group environmental, health and safety audit programme.
ammonia and the manufacture of chemical intermediates as The board believes that the measures taken to review the CSR well as other speciality chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
The information provide a suitable level of confidence without effective use of catalysts in industrial manufacturing processes external audit.
Johnson Matthey utilises external specialists delivers substantial benefits in terms of both economics and where specific CSR issues are identified.
A well designed catalyst allows chemical reactions to proceed under less harsh plant operating conditions Case Study for example lower temperature and pressure and enables a Energy, a World in Transition more efficient conversion of the raw materials to the desired end product with the minimum of waste.
Offering catalyst Headlines and news stories highlighting concerns over future products with increased lifetimes means that in most processes, energy supplies, alternative energy sources and a shift towards a catalysts can be used for several years before replacement.
low or zero carbon economy are now commonplace.
We are Additionally, in many cases spent catalyst products are currently living in a carbon world where most of our energy is recovered and reprocessed, providing a high level of recycling.
derived from fossil fuels and the impact of the resulting carbon As we continue to draw from the worlds fossil fuel dioxide CO emissions on the atmosphere is well publicised.
2 resources, a number of the feedstocks used including sour There is a growing and urgent consensus that we need to crude oil and coal are becoming progressively heavier and reduce worldwide carbon emissions through the more efficient dirtier at source, and contain significantly higher levels of use of energy and the introduction of alternative energy impurities such as sulphur which must be removed prior to sources, so starting a transition towards a lower carbon and commercial or domestic use.
Johnson Mattheys portfolio ultimately a hydrogen economy.
As energy prices rise the includes catalysts for the generation of hydrogen gas used for focus of the debate is on finding technological solutions to the the hydrocracking of heavy oil fractions into cleaner light fuel problem.
Part of the solution is dependent on industry offering products such as jet fuel, diesel and LPG.
Johnson Matthey also more sustainable products and energy efficient manufacturing supplies a wide range of purification catalysts used to remove processes to its customers and there are numerous challenges contaminants such as chlorine, hydrogen sulphide, carbonyl associated with addressing these issues.
Many offer current and sulphide and mercury from natural gas and other gaseous and future business opportunities for Johnson Matthey where new liquid hydrocarbons.
technology will be a key enabler in delivering benefits to society A serious threat to world CO stabilisation and air quality 2 and the generation of further value for shareholders.
is the inevitable increase in the use of coal.
The world has large reserves of coal and its use in power generation has already Creating Business Opportunities increased significantly as oil and gas prices have increased.
In Stabilising and ultimately reducing the worlds CO levels will addition, dramatic further rises in coal consumption are forecast 2 require massive changes right across the energy supply, as developing countries such as China and India, lacking generation and distribution network.
The efficiency balance significant indigenous oil and gas reserves, install new generating between central and distributed power generation is an capacity using this fuel.
Unless coupled to new clean technology, important factor, as is the capture of CO when it is produced.
these old processes can be particularly polluting.
Coal can be 2 Bringing about energy efficiency improvements and mitigating converted to syngas a mixture of hydrogen and carbon oxides the CO problem whilst securing energy supplies will require a by a gasification process.
CO can then be chemically removed 2 2 number of innovative technology approaches.
Johnson Matthey and sequestered to purify synthesis gas for fuel or chemical has a range of products that offer such sustainable solutions and synthesis.
Synthesis gas produced directly from coal can be is developing new technology to meet the challenges associated optimised to manufacture methanol and this itself is a useful with meeting our future energy needs.
Alongside these starting material for a range of chemical products.
Numerous developments Johnson Matthey is also focused on the purification and catalytic steps are required in many of these introduction of new process technology and initiatives to processes and Johnson Matthey supplies engineering technology minimise the environmental impact and improve the energy and catalyst products for several of these stages.
Further efficiency of its own manufacturing operations.
developments of these technologies are also key R&D goals for the company.
- Johnson Matthey 34 Alongside a range of catalysts and technologies for the Distributed power generation at point of use has the cleaner and more efficient use of existing carbon based potential to be significantly more energy efficient than resources, Johnson Matthey has also developed products for centralised power generation because the transmission losses the abatement of the harmful greenhouse gases produced by are less and any waste energy can also be used for heating or some industrial processes.
Nitrous oxide N O is a greenhouse cooling purposes.
Fuel cells are particularly suited to distributed 2 gas with a global warming potency 310 times that of CO.
It is generation since they are highly efficient, quiet, non-polluting 2 a component of emissions from some chemical processes, and are scalable from watts to mega watts.
Johnson Matthey including those used in the manufacture of nitric acid and continues to invest in fuel cell component development, caprolactam.
Environmental regulations to limit N O emissions working with leading system manufacturers on a range of fuel 2 are likely to be implemented within the EU by 2008 and with cell technologies.
Early markets for fuel cells are now beginning the recent introduction of incentives provided by the Clean to be commercialised, covering applications such as backup and Development Mechanism CDM and Joint Implementation JI uninterruptible power systems as well as battery replacement Projects under the Kyoto Protocol, interest in N O abatement for electronic items.
2 technology from the nitric acid industry has increased.
Johnson Given that fossil fuelled centralised power generation will TM Mattheys Amoxis-Hybrid catalyst technology has the remain an important part of the worlds energy supply network capability to achieve up to 90% reductions in N O emissions in for the foreseeable future, carbon capture and storage CCS 2 both nitric acid and caprolactam manufacturing processes and technologies are gaining increased public, commercial and is specifically available for N O abatement projects under the governmental recognition as a route to reducing carbon 2 Kyoto Protocol.
CCS involves the development of processes and systems that capture and store CO.
Storage would typically 2 Enabling Technologies for a Lower Carbon World be in exhausted oil and gas wells, where the injection of CO 2 The transition towards a low carbon emissions economy is can also have the added benefit of improving yield from the accompanied by the further introduction of technologies and well.
One example of CCS is a large scale plant in which a processes that reduce or eliminate carbon containing emissions hydrocarbon fuel for example natural gas or LPG is reformed to atmosphere.
In response to rapidly escalating gas and and purified in several catalytic steps to produce hydrogen and electricity costs and the increasing environmental concern CO.
The two gases are separated and hydrogen is used as a 2 surrounding the effects of burning fossil fuels, Johnson Mattheys fuel whilst CO is injected and stored underground.
Johnson 2 Ceramics Division has recently launched its ThermECO Matthey has key enabling technology relevant to this and other technology.
The manufacture of ceramics is an energy intensive CCS processes.
process and the ThermECO range of ceramic clay body and Biomass offers a sustainable alternative to petrochemical glaze products allows sanitaryware and tableware manufacturers feedstocks for the development of carbon neutral processes to process their products at significantly lower operating and current high oil prices are stimulating interest in this area.
temperatures, reducing their energy usage and hence their Johnson Mattheys Davy Process Technology business has CO emissions.
2 demonstrated how industry can manufacture commodity chemicals from renewable materials.
The company has developed and licenses several sustainable process technologies.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - 35 Operating and Financial Review One example is a process for the manufacture of natural Fuel cell technology, which has applied catalysis expertise at detergent alcohols used to make detergents and cosmetics its core, is by far the most efficient way of producing electricity from coconut and palm kernel oils and a number of from hydrogen, the only by-product being pure water.
Through commercial scale plants have been licensed around the world.
its dedicated Fuel Cells business, Johnson Matthey is developing Another sustainable process technology that has been enabling technology for this new industry.
However, even with successfully licensed is for the manufacture of ethyl acetate, a the increased efficiency of fuel cells, a truly sustainable hydrogen commodity solvent used in the chemical industry.
Our new economy will require that the hydrogen is produced from green technology enables the manufacture of ethyl acetate renewable resources such as biomass or renewable electricity directly from bio-ethanol, a natural fermentation product from and our scientists are working on a range of applications in this crop starch.
Ethyl acetate is an important industrial solvent area.
Johnson Matthey is also addressing the issue of how which degrades in the atmosphere to carbon dioxide and hydrogen will be transported and stored.
For example, work is water.
Consequently the Davy Process Technology bio-process well underway to develop novel materials that will allow low route is carbon neutral and this is a distinct improvement over pressure storage of hydrogen on board vehicles without the conventional multi-stage processing of petrochemicals that compromising their performance or range.
are derived from fossil fuels.
Initiatives for Sustainable Manufacturing Processes Enabling Technology for a Hydrogen Economy With the growing realisation that the world must reduce its We have seen how Johnson Mattheys existing products and dependence on polluting and finite fossil fuel resources, the developmental technologies can contribute towards more longer term scenario for future energy supply is the hydrogen sustainable use of the worlds resources.
The company is also economy where hydrogen generated from low or zero carbon focused on minimising the impact of its own manufacturing sources is used in place of hydrocarbon fuels as a way of processes through process modifications and the introduction transporting energy around the world.
of initiatives which deliver environmental, energy and cost saving Hydrogen can be derived in many different ways and benefits for the business.
offers the potential to be an alternative or additional energy Johnson Matthey actively seeks to improve its energy carrier to power our homes and workplaces, transport and efficiency through its capital expenditure projects, participation industry.
Johnson Matthey has a broad range of skills in in energy user groups and through input and response to a hydrogen processing ranging from the catalysts and technologies range of broader initiatives and regulatory issues.
Combined used in its generation, to the materials used for its storage heat and power CHP plants at our Royston and Brimsdown, and the development of systems to use it in fuel cells.
As the UK facilities have been operational since 2002 and the West market for hydrogen develops and the scale and nature of the Deptford, US CHP unit was brought on line in 2003.
All three processing required in enabling its use as a viable fuel expands, have delivered more efficient point of use generation of Johnson Matthey is well placed to benefit from its considerable electricity in addition to steam and hot water which are used expertise in this area.
to provide heat for other duties on site.
CHP also delivers significant reductions in emissions when compared to centrally generated power.
- Johnson Matthey 36 The introduction of the Climate Change Levy CCL by the UK Government in 2000 has resulted in a thorough review of Johnson Mattheys energy utilisation throughout its UK operations.
A series of incremental improvements and investments in current energy efficient technologies has put us on track to meet our 20% reduction target by 2010.
The combined performance of our Royston and Brimsdown sites has already exceeded the milestone target, achieving a 30% reduction.
The company has also increased its focus on internal environmental target setting by sites worldwide and with this has actively encouraged the inclusion of energy efficiency targets.
Johnson Matthey recognises the value and benefits that can be derived from good communication and knowledge sharing across the group and at all levels of business activity.
An energy user group has been formed at our Royston, UK site with representatives from all businesses to explore and share best practice on energy efficiency.
Since its formation in October 2005, the groups output has already yielded initial ideas for energy saving initiatives and in view of the positive outcomes so far, plans are underway to set up a global Johnson Matthey energy user group.
As demand for Johnson Mattheys emission control technologies continues to grow, the Environmental Catalysts and Technologies business has focused on increasing plant uptime to deliver both cost and energy saving benefits.
The implementation of initiatives derived through working groups has yielded significant economic and environmental benefits including increased plant uptime, more efficient use of raw materials and an overall decrease in the energy required per unit of product.
As well as adopting current energy efficient technologies in its operations, Johnson Matthey, in collaboration with other key stakeholders, is working hard with the UK government and other bodies to create the public private partnerships and policy mechanisms required to stimulate the development of truly innovative environmental technologies.
The success of this initiative would allow dramatic improvements in CO emissions 2 across the UK.
Working Towards a Sustainable Future As the global trend continues towards improved energy efficiency and the adoption of alternative energy resources, Johnson Matthey products and technologies have an increasingly significant role to play both now and in the future.
We remain focused on innovation and development to deliver sustainable solutions for our customers and on minimising the impact of our own manufacturing processes.
The changing dynamics of global energy source and supply continue to present opportunities for Johnson Matthey to make a positive contribution to society as a whole whilst delivering long term value for our shareholders.
