Corporate Social Responsibility Business Ethics Because of our key role in the arrangements are subject to review by The Board of Johnston Press has made community, a separate section is either the Chief Operating Officer or the a clear commitment to operating all of incorporated within this report detailing Chief Financial Officer, depending on the the Group's business activities to the some of the many community orientated nature of the supply.
highest standards of business ethics and activities in which the Group's integrity.
These principles are not only companies are involved.
As part of the main Board's review of contained in the Group's Corporate Corporate Governance at its January Social Responsibility Statement but it is Board Responsibility 2007 meeting, the Directors also also policy to include them in The Board has delegated the day to day reviewed the Corporate Social employment contracts.
responsibility for all matters related to Responsibility Policy.
Corporate Social Responsibility and social The code of ethics specifically requires issues to the Executive Directors.
They are Health & Safety adherence to all legal requirements.
It has assisted by the Company Secretary who As discussed in the Business Review, a clear policy and procedure for is generally the first point of contact for the Group has rigorous Health & Safety addressing issues such as bribery, any issues of this nature.
management and reporting processes in corruption, conflicts of interest, espionage place.
Health & Safety is at the core of and the giving and receiving of gifts.
The Specific responsibility for environmental our operations, with it being the first Group opposes all forms of oppression issues has been delegated to the Chief topic on all business agendas at the and is a supporter of all human rights.
local, regional, group and board levels.
There are health and safety committees The Groups entire business is in Europe, Whilst recognising that the practices of in every Group Company and the Chief the vast majority being in the UK and recruitment, employment and training are Operating Officer chairs the Group Republic of Ireland.
the responsibility of all managers within Health and Safety Committee, which the Group, responsibility for formulating, undertake audit visits, monitors An acceptable use policy has been updating and ensuring adherence to compliance with Group policies and developed for all of the company's Group policies and relevant legislation spreads best practice.
assets including but not restricted to has been delegated to the Director of computer equipment, email facilities and Human Resources who is responsible to With our improved and consistent use of the Internet.
This policy is the Chief Operating Officer.
reporting processes now having been in required to be signed by every employee place for more than 2 years, it is possible and is designed to protect both the Each local Managing Director has to report some meaningful statistics and employee and employer.
responsibility within their operation for comparisons as detailed below.
relationships with customers, suppliers The Group has the absolute objective of and the community.
These relationships As can be seen in Table 1 we have made always acting as a fair and reasonable are subject to review by the Chief significant improvements in every employer.
We also acknowledge, and are Operating Officer who is responsible to category measured and, without keenly aware of, our responsibilities to the Chief Executive Officer.
Certain nationally available statistics for the the many communities we serve: our materials and services are sourced publishing and printing industries, the readers, customers, suppliers, centrally such as newsprint and legal most meaningful comparisons are with shareholders, and to the environment.
and professional services and these the national averages for the UK.
Table 1 2006 2005 Total employees in Group FTE 7,849 6,992 Employees involved in accidents - Publishing 5.0% 6.0% - Printing 19.0% 30.0% - Total 5.4% 7.3% Employees with RIDDOR reportable accidents - Publishing 0.3% 0.6% - Printing 1.9% 2.4% - Total 0.4% 0.7% Total working days lost through accidents 538 865 Table 2 Accident Rates per 100,000 employees JP Group National Average Fatal accidents 0 0.7 Major accidents with over 3 days absence 382 562 Lost days per person 0.07 0.26 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 45 Corporate Social Responsibility - continued The Group also has a rolling programme disabled, and development for to identify areas for improvement at a of independent audit visits covering promotion are encouraged and assisted.
departmental, company and Group level.
property and Health & Safety risks.
Expert advice is taken on the needs of These visits are targeted on the locations disabled employees and special The Group continues to prioritise which have the highest risk profile along equipment is provided where employee retention and in order to gain a with a sample of other sites.
better understanding of staff turnover in reports and recommendations are our Advertising Departments we have produced after each visit which require Open and continuous communication is introduced a detailed and structured follow up and implementation by local an important part of the engagement electronic exit interviewing process to management.
This process is monitored process and this is achieved through a gather information on a Group-wide by the Group Management Board.
variety of channels six-monthly basis.
presentations, functional meetings, Employee Involvement workshops and conferences as well as The overall staff turnover for the Group It is the policy of the Group to encourage digital and written forms of has increased marginally from 17.1% in and develop all members of staff to communication.
Collective involvement 2005 to 17.3% in 2006. realise their maximum potential.
The is achieved through local forums and Group's policy is that, wherever possible, meetings with recognised unions.
Group personnel policies are designed to job vacancies are advertised on the ensure that all employees are made Group intranet and internal notice boards As a result of the acquisition of aware on a regular basis of the Group's so that we maximise the number of companies in the Republic of Ireland in policies, programmes and progress.
positions filled from within the Group and 2006, we are about to elect a Special Extensive use is made of the Group create adequate opportunities for Negotiating Body in order to establish a intranet and notice boards with an internal promotion.
European level communication and e-newsletter being published to coincide consultation process.
with the publication of the Annual Report The Group recognises that a diverse, and Accounts.
The Company operates a involved and engaged workforce adds The development of our people remains number of share schemes as outlined in clear value to our employees, our a priority and we have continued to the Directors' Remuneration Report on business, our customers, our invest heavily in off-the-job training pages 52 to 59. shareholders and the communities we programmes and side-by-side coaching.
In 2006 we delivered 86 different courses Disability Access and in excess of 12,000 training days As part of our ongoing property and The Group fully supports the principle of covering all aspects of our business, Health & Safety audits we continually equal opportunity for all and opposes all including Advertising Sales, Editorial, review the provisions made at all of our forms of illegal or unfair discrimination.
Digital Media, Leadership & locations to ensure that we do not In 2006 a Group Diversity Manager and Management, Finance, Health & Safety, discriminate in terms of access against local Diversity Co-ordinators were IT and HR.
In 2006, we trebled the disabled customers.
Solutions have been appointed with the aim of having a number of dedicated Commercial put in place involving modification, workforce that reflects the communities Trainers and in order to achieve our removal, avoidance or circumvention of they serve.
We have already improved Digital Strategy committed to a potential barriers at all of our locations.
links with ethnic minorities and significant investment in Editorial We also ensure that any refurbishment or introduced a bursary scheme which aims training.
Each year the Group recruits upgrading to our premises, where to give financial support to those from and trains approximately 100 trainee practical, takes into account the need to deprived backgrounds or ethnic journalists and places them on a 2 year enhance access for all of our disabled minorities who wish to follow a career in training programme in order to achieve customers.
With reference to the journalism.
Discrimination on the basis of full NCTJ certification.
increased importance of our digital age has also been specifically addressed publishing activities, the Group develops following the introduction of UK Leadership capability at all levels of the its core internet sites to W3CA Disability legislation.
We have introduced a new business is important to our future Standards and this is authenticated Age Discrimination Policy, revised success and we continue to succession through Watchfire.
All pages are existing policies, delivered management plan and develop our leadership talent in developed to W3C XHML standard.
In training and briefed employees to ensure order to ensure we meet our current and addition to W3CA standards, we avoid we meet our legal obligations.
table layout and use CSS 2.0 to improve readability for screen readers.
Every It is also the policy of the Group to give In order to measure the level of internet newspaper site has a sitemap full and fair consideration to the employee engagement across the that enables easy navigation on screen recruitment of disabled persons.
Where Group, we have piloted an Engagement readers.
The Group has a Disability disabled persons are employed, their Survey and this will be rolled out in 2007.
Access policy which has been added to training, including training for alternative The purpose of the survey is to measure our policy and procedures manual.
work of employees that become the level of employee engagement and 46 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Community Involvement The emerging importance of websites The Burnley Express also successfully Readers rely on local newspapers being has come to the fore with a number of fought plans to axe one of the two fire at the heart of their communities - them being involved in community engines at Padiham.
The sister title at breaking major stories, campaigning on initiatives.
One example was the Preston Nelson was also instrumental in saving a wide variety of issues and site run by the Lancashire Evening Post local fire stations from closure.
being used for a news idol competition Johnston Press titles - together with their with the winner reading the news on our The Bedford Times & Citizen ran a websites - are at the heart of local own channel, LEP TV.
campaign to ensure the continued affairs, representing the interests of their provision of accident and emergency local communities and acting as a Our larger Scottish titles have all been services at its hospital.
Five Morton catalyst for hundreds of charity involved in major issues.
The Scotsman Newspaper titles in Northern Ireland campaigns.
launched a successful campaign to get joined forces to run a campaign for the the Scottish Executive to commit to a Southern Area Hospice.
The editor of the The work of Johnston Press newspapers new River Forth Crossing and was at the Hastings Observer was among a and websites in the communities they heart of the Spirit of Scotland Awards delegation who met Prime Minister Tony serve is epitomised by the example of which voted the then Scotland football Blair expressing concerns about plans to the Mansfield Chad which this year manager Walter Smith the Top Scot.
More provided its 274th dog to guide a blind Musician Paolo Nutini, writer Alan than 40,000 people signed a petition and person.
The paper set up its Guide Dogs Spence and TV chef Gordon Ramsay 7,000 attended a protest rally.
Save our for the Blind fund in 1963, asking were among the other winners.
Scotland Services was the message from the readers to help it raise the 250 needed on Sunday ran a Backing Burns Hartlepool Mail, out to protect services at that time to provide and train one dog.
campaign to save the historic Alloway at the University Hospital in the town and So successful was the appeal, the paper cottage.
Like the Scotsman, the paper backed by a 34,000 name petition.
decided to keep the fund going.
Since has major plans to be at the centre of Another successful campaign against the then the cost for each dog has gradually this years elections to the Scottish closure of a respite centre was run by increased and now stands at 2,500.
Parliament and, in particular, the vitally the Lancashire Evening Post.
Chris Dyson, Special Projects Manager important debate over the future for the Guide Dogs for the Blind, said: relationship between Scotland and Road issues particularly involving We would like to say a huge thank you England.
The Edinburgh Evening News safety formed the basis for campaigns to the Chad and its readers.
The named Scottish Newspaper of the Year run by a number of titles.
The Sheffield fantastic fundraising effort helped pay for at the Scottish Press awards - ran Stars campaign to ease the citys traffic the training of guide dogs transforming campaigns over parking costs, council gridlock resulted in the editor being the freedom, mobility and independence playing fields and the expense of asked to get involved in an official group of many blind and partially sighted councillors taxi bills.
drawing up an action plan.
change in the law as a result of the Health issues provide a major source of Northants Evening Telegraphs campaign Each year our newspapers get involved community campaigns.
The Sunderland to get tougher sentences on drivers who in a wide range of charitable fund-raising Echo got parliamentary support for its cause death by careless driving following campaigns, having raised millions of campaign to protect 999 crews from the death of a teenage girl.
The death of pounds over the years for good causes.
More than 4,000 people a schoolgirl in a road accident prompted Backed by their websites, the local marched in protest and 6,000 signed a a successful campaign by the Kilsyth publishing centres not only support good petition against plans to move the Chronicle for a pedestrian crossing.
Staff causes, they also campaign on issues on National Childrens Hospital in Dublin at the Leitrim Observer also ran a major behalf of their communities standing up a campaign spearheaded by the Tallaght road safety campaign as did the Fenland for the wronged and leading by example.
The Hemel Gazette supported a Citizen, the Wetherby News and the St The enormous support local newspapers bed-push protest against cuts and the Helens Reporter.
The Suffolk Free Press give to charities was demonstrated in a Buckingham Advertiser joined forces was singled out for praise by a top fire letter sent to the Harrogate Advertiser with sister paper the Bucks Herald to officer for a similar road safety effort.
from the chief executive of the local petition Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt hospice on his retirement.
He wrote: over planned cuts.
At Leamington Spa At the Kirkintilloch Herald, staff fought to Good publicity is our lifeblood and you the Courier fought a proposal to close a save the town hall, a popular community have kept us in the public eye baby unit.
The Stamford Mercury also venue which was under threat.
To my personal thanks for ran a successful campaign against support from every political group for an responding so positively and hospital closure plans as did the Ripon Ulster Star campaign to save a specialist consistently, I would add those of the Gazette.
Similar campaigns were school and The Portsmouth News hard many patients and relatives they are launched by our papers in West Sussex, on the heels of winning a national Arctic really indebted to you.
Star campaign medal for war veterans has been campaigning against possible cuts at the Portsmouth Naval base.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 47 Corporate Social Responsibility - continued Two tons of luxury items squeezed into palsy.
The Derry Journal helped a baby The Yorkshire Post which fought to 900 shoeboxes was sent out to in need of a life-saving bone marrow protect real Wensleydale cheese, Lancashire soldiers based in Iraq and transplant get to Germany for the warning against cheap imitations, was Afghanistan over Christmas as a result of operation.
also behind a major campaign to get a an appeal by the Blackpool Gazette in fair deal for farmers, prompting conjunction with the Royal Marine The Luton Herald & Posts fundraising Government action.
campaign for Luton and Dunstable Hospital raised 320,000.
The At Doncaster a joint initiative between Readers of the Hemel Gazette were Cumbernauld News forged a partnership the Free Press and local police has urged to Dig Deep supporting a with a bank to sponsor community involved naming and shaming kerb campaign to fund a new hospice in projects with cash and The Falkirk crawlers a move that has won support Berkhamsted.
So far 375,000 has been Herald ran a youth project with Falkirk from residents, whilst the Shields raised.
A Light for a Life Appeal backed FC.
In Eastbourne, the Herald led the Gazette stopped the illegal use of local by the Wigan and Leigh Reporters way in helping the local MS society raise roads in a minimoto menace campaign.
supported the good work of a hospice 11,000 for a new mini bus.
The Worksop and Dinnington The Northampton Chronicle & Echo used Guardian the winner of two Newspaper Many of our titles have been involved in a website vote to run a major community Society circulation awards - was highlighting positive issues.
The campaign to transform the towns involved in similar action, supporting a Sunderland Echo ran a Wear 1 campaign Racecourse open space.
Its sister paper, childrens hospice.
The weekly Sheffield to celebrate all that is good about the the Northants Evening Telegraph, ran a Telegraph backed an event which raised area.
Wigan entertainment legend highly interactive reader campaign 150,000 in less than 12 weeks to George Formby now has a statue in his asking people to choose from a list of safeguard the future of a local cancer hometown after a campaign by the the seven worst anti-social issues care centre.
This was also supported by Wigan Observer and the decision to end affecting their lives.
As a result Corby the former Home Secretary, David 129 years of tradition and close Council spent 40,000 clearing away fly Blunkett, who handed over the cash on Blackpools North Pier theatre provoked tipping rubbish.
In Bridlington, the Free the papers behalf.
The Bury Free Press strong opposition by the Gazette.
Press ran a similar campaign to Build a is also involved in raising 18,000 for a Scarboroughs historic seafront theatre Better Brid.
The Futurist was saved from abandonment by the local council thanks The Market Rasen Mail marked its 150th Around 60,000 was raised by the Lynn to the issue being highlighted by the anniversary with a community hero News to fund a floodlit helipad for the Evening News, which also launched a awards and presentation ceremony.
local air ambulance to use.
Having done Fix It campaign backed by Sir Jimmy that the paper has embarked on another Savile.
The Whitby Gazette, Dewsbury The Wakefield Express is behind an campaign, to raise 125,000 to buy a Reporter and Milton Keynes Citizen all effort to encourage reading across the faster lifeboat for the RNLI at ran pride in their town events: The city to address poor literacy levels.
Limerick Leader ran Limerick Person of the Year awards: Leinster Express staff The Limerick Leader was the first paper In Leeds, the Yorkshire Evening Post celebrated the papers 175th anniversary in the Republic of Ireland to start an raised more than 40,000 for two with People of the Year awards and the ethnic notes page, printing stories each hospices.
And the Edinburgh Evening Longford Leader launched a shop front week in Polish, Slovakian, Chinese, News helped sick children by raising challenge with awards to the best Spanish, African, Romanian and French.
Guardian readers helped raise 500,000 The Biggleswade Chronicle ran a project towards the building of a new cardiac Halifax Towns Shay football ground was with schools in the run-up to the World unit at the Royal Lancaster Infirmary.
saved from being sold after club Cup finals.
Isle of Man Newspapers supporters backed an Evening Courier hosted its own version of the World Cup Two-year-old Kelan Cassidy from campaign.
attracting representative teams from Lennoxtown was born with a rare brain across the world.
condition and was able to go to America The Daventry Express campaigned for specialist treatment after Kirkintilloch against graffiti resulting in five arrests.
The plight of the victims of the Farepak Herald readers raised more than Christmas saving club sparked a fund- 10,000.
Terminally ill Anna Cahoon A Gardening for Gold campaign by the raising effort by Isle of Man Newspapers, nine got a specialised powered Garstang Courier got the town a gold raising more than 11,000 to provide wheelchair as a result of a 17,000 fundmedal in the Britain in Bloom cheer for 54 victims.
The Whitby raising campaign by the Larne Times competition.
The Derbyshire Times Gazette, backed by the Lions and the Lurgan Mail ran a similar supported a similar initiative.
The campaign for a local child with cerebral Kilkenny People organised an attempt to 48 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 hold the worlds biggest carol concert By way of summary, the Group has Environmental Policy and set a European record with 3,800 facilitated fund raising campaigns that The Group acknowledges that the people attending raising 15,000 euros have raised 3.6m in the last year, have protection of the environment is one of for charity.
given free space to community or its key corporate responsibilities.
We aim environmental campaigns to the value of to comply with all relevant regulations The Dundalk Democrat backed a climb 1.5m and have given discounts to and see the identification, management of Mount Kilimanjaro raising 100,000 charity advertisers of 0.3m.
and control of environmental risks as euros for local charities.
The Peterborough being an implicit requirement for Evening Telegraph raised 30,000 to Customer Services adherence to the Corporate Governance help quake victims in Pakistan.
It is Group policy to provide the highest Combined Code.
standard of service to all of our Johnston Press newspapers continued customers.
Each operating company has Back in 2002 a scoring methodology and to be at the forefront of breaking news staff appointed to respond to all audit programme was developed by stories during 2006.
The Newsletter in customer enquiries.
There are strict independent environmental risk Belfast was at the heart of the political procedures for resolving customer consultants to facilitate the ongoing debate as the British and Irish complaints or queries regarding service monitoring and control of our policies governments struggled to restore the and these are carefully monitored by and procedures.
Extensive training was Northern Ireland assembly.
carried out and a rolling programme of Michael Stone, who staged a violent internal audits of environmental impacts assault on the Stormont Assembly, Local management in each operation are and risks was introduced.
Additionally subsequently wrote to the Newsletter responsible for ensuring that their audits by external independent from prison to justify his actions.
companies and all their employees consultants have continued in order to comply with the requirements of all verify the findings of these internal The Yorkshire Post was first to reveal customer and competition related reviews.
Detailed reports are produced that one of the men accused of the legislation.
It is Group policy that the after each visit and the implementation murder of a Bradford police officer had interests of Johnston Press only ever of all recommendations is monitored by fled the country wearing a veil and using require strict compliance and no one in management.
the Group has authority to give any order or direction that would result in a The Group continues to benefit from its Websites featured prominently in the way violation of this policy.
To monitor this investment in more energy efficient editors broke exclusive stories during the and for training purposes, the Group equipment as well as the time and effort year.
One of the website successes of undertakes mystery shopping exercises.
put into the monitoring and control of the year was the Lancashire site at energy consumption.
The equipment Preston which won the Digital Innovation The Group has also developed a series introduced for this control has enabled the Award at the Newspaper Societys of customer service related metrics Group to continue to benefit from rebates Advertising and Digital Media Wards.
which are being rolled out across the against the Climate Change Levy Tax.
Pictures of a fireworks factory explosion Group.
We have also commissioned in Sussex were first revealed on a independent audits of our customer 2006 was a significant year for Johnston website as was the Irish Sea helicopter services in an effort to drive continual Press in terms of ongoing efforts in the crash tragedy which claimed six lives, improvement.
The Group Sales Charter field of energy management.
A introduced in 2004 has become scaffolding collapse which resulted in enshrined in our operations to ensure Looking first at electricity, the enlarged workers being trapped was first revealed that our customers and advertisers are Groups annual consumption was 59.6m on the Milton Keynes site.
A visit by the always dealt with in a fair and equitable kWh.
Of this 14.6m kWh related to those Queen to Biggleswade got similar online manner and the terms of trade are businesses acquired in the second half treatment and was backed up in the published in the Group's newspapers.
Pictures of a tornado Equal attention is paid to the service that for like basis, as can be seen in the table which hit a village were first shown on we provide to our readers with each below, our electricity consumption the Stamford site.
editor directly responsible for any decreased by 2.6%.
The Editorial Review Group, there are two significant influences, firstly One of the major personal achievements a body of senior Group editors, also the one-off negative impact of of the year was completed by Belfast meets regularly to discuss editorial policy establishing and building up volumes at Newsletter feature writer Geoff Hill, who and issues related to content.
The Group our new press facility in Dinnington, completed a 16,000-mile motorbike also conforms to the Press Complaint inevitably this initial phase is inefficient, journey from Chile to Alaska, having Commission guidelines.
and secondly the ongoing benefit of written a series of articles on the way.
closing the older inefficient presses that Dinnington replaces.
We should see the full benefit of this in 2007.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 49 Corporate Social Responsibility - continued If we were to include the acquired heatset press in Portsmouth and its been set to encompass a further 1% businesses, the total electricity replacement with the more efficient press reduction in consumption.
consumption in our printing centres was at TSPL helped this, as did removing the 40.8m kWh.
During the year we inefficient services at the closed press Following on from 2004 when we processed 143.3k tonnes of newsprint halls.
It should also be mentioned that undertook the first review of our motors through our major print centres with an the milder winters have contributed to fleet, progress has continued to be made average consumption of 284.8 this reduction.
The details of this are set out in kWh tonne, an increase of 11.9%.
apparent increase has been caused by a The Group also saw significant number of factors.
reductions in its usage of water which is The increase in the fleet was mainly directly attributable to two down to the acquisitions made in the During the course of the year we moved developments: firstly the Groups year and although the fleet increased by the majority of our printing onto 42.5gsm investment in computer to plate 7.6% the CO2 rating only increased by paper and standardised on a narrower technology, which removes the need for 5.2% as we continue where practical to web width.
This saved approximately the old imaging process which was a purchase lower rated cars.
The average 7.3% of our newsprint in terms of weight heavy user of water, and secondly the CO2 rating of the fleet decreased by but did not reduce the number of pages recycling developments at Dinnington, 2.3% to 168. processed through our presses.
Adjusted the details of which are below.
Energy for this the kWh tonne would have been consumption details are summarised in Dinnington New Initiatives 264.0, a 3.7% increase over 2005.
With the measurement and auditing of mentioned previously, this increase is the environmental impacts firmly in place, inevitable consequence of the inefficient The Group continues to make excellent this year saw the launch of several new start up and shut down of the presses progress in achieving the target set out initiatives to actively reduce the associated with the transfer of work to in its Energy Management Policy, which consumption and waste generation at Dinnington as well as the effect of limited was adopted in 2003, for a 7% reduction the Groups printing operations.
energy efficiency programmes being in in consumption on a like for like basis place at the acquired press centres.
In fact, The new printing centre at Dinnington electricity consumption on that basis was the first employer to move onto the Gas consumption, both on an absolute since 2002 is already down by 6.7%.
multi environmental award winning and productivity basis, decreased Gas consumption in the same period is former coalfield site.
The closure in 2005 of the old down by 36.3%.
wildlife, leisure and industrial spaces replaced by a more modern heatset created.
press at Caledonian Offset Limited All categories of waste are measured COL, which became part of the Group and monitored and systems are in The new press line at Dinnington, which through acquisition of The Scotsman operation, including an independent was commissioned using the latest Publications Limited.
COL complies with audit, to ensure that all waste is correctly energy reducing drive technology has, as and exceeds the requirements of its disposed of.
Initiatives to reduce waste mentioned earlier, allowed five older less permit under the Pollution Prevention production are constantly evaluated.
energy efficient press lines to be and Control Act 1999.
Annual Projects to re-cycle press and pre-press removed.
The building housing the new independent servicing and testing of the chemistry are underway, and the press was designed to maximise the use Katec Oxidiser used on the heatset reduction of packaging has continued of natural light and heat, and again press is carried out to ensure through further investment in recyclable replaces five less efficient environments.
compliance with all regulations which are fibre packaging and bulk raw material.
governed by the Scottish Environment Virtually all the paper processed at Protection Agency SEPA.
SEPA also Acquisitions Dinnington comes from 100% recycled carries out regular inspections, the most Recent acquisitions have been audited fibre, and the old cardboard reel cores recent being 28 September 2006 when for energy efficiency and waste have been replaced with reusable fibre no compliance issues were found and a management.
The necessary investment cores that are returned to the paper mill favourable report achieved.
By way of is underway to bring them in line with after printing.
On-site recycling comparison, the system employed at Group standards.
equipment has been installed to allow COL is significantly more efficient than water and solvents used in the printing that on the press now closed at Carbon Footprint process to be cleaned and reused.
It removes 99.96% of Recognising the increased awareness of addition bulk storage of printing Volatile Organic Compounds VOC climate change and every corporations materials was included within the present in the process and VOCs responsibility to manage its carbon building design which has led to reduced emitted to air have been reduced by footprint, the Group has established a raw material transport requirements.
36% compared to Portsmouth to Carbon Footprint Task Force which will 3 1.6mg Nm.
This compares very operate along similar lines to the Health Dinnington along with other Group print favourably to the regulatory requirements & Safety Committee.
The remit of the 3 centres is on course to achieve a 10% of 50mg Nm.
Task Force will be to: reduction in oil based ink usage through the installation of the latest computer The operation continues to seek ways of i Establish the extent of our current controlled pre press technology.
Further reducing solvent usage as part of its carbon footprint and introduce investment in its mailroom activities has Solvent Management Plan, testing and measurement and monitoring allowed the Group to continue to substituting whenever possible low processes going forward.
decrease its usage of plastic based solvent and non-VOC products as they ii Drive initiatives to reduce our carbon packaging materials.
iii Investigate and implement Newsprint Waste programmes which promote the use As part of its ongoing commitment, as The Group adheres to the requirements of sustainable resources.
agreed with the Government, the of the Producer Responsibility iv Champion and communicate industry, through the Newspaper Society, Obligations Packaging Waste programmes to reduce energy has continued to raise the target for the Regulations 1997.
The Group employs consumption across the Group.
recycled content of newsprint used in an industry recognised recycler to handle the production of UK newspapers.
process waste and all non-paper waste The Committee will be chaired by the Against a target of 67%, the actual figure is handled through them.
This has been Chief Financial Officer.
a very successful operation encompassing safe removal of waste Shareholders Newspapers cannot be recycled with a transparent audit trail and an ISO Members of the Board Executive and indefinitely due to the process requiring 14001 accreditation.
Non-Executive have met a number of some virgin fibre to maintain paper shareholders during the past year to strength.
All virgin fibre comes from In addition, the paper-based waste is discuss Corporate Social Responsibility renewable managed softwood coniferous now removed and recycled through a matters and to address any questions forests, which themselves are carefully Group-wide arrangement with one of our raised by them.
Companies with no printing facilities are only Emissions to Air required to account for any packaging The only emissions to air within the utilised prior to delivery to the customer.
Group are associated with heatset presses.
To facilitate the expansion of The Group is committed to ensure that our Portsmouth Printing operations, an its recycled newsprint goes into the Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 51
