48 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 coRpoR AtE RE SpoNSIBIlIt Y Kazakhmys recognises that the highest practicable standards of health, safety, environmental and community practices are vital to its success, and are a key responsibility of all employees oUr CommiTmenT To CorPoraTe resPonsibiliTy The trust and confidence of those with whom the Group deals, together with its reputation, are amongst its most important assets.
Along with its commitment to competitiveness and performance, Kazakhmys recognises that the highest practicable standards of health, safety, environmental and community practices are vital to its success, and are a key responsibility of all employees.
healTh, safeTy and environmenT In September 2005 the Board established a Group Health, Safety and Environment GHSE Committee which comprises David Munro chairman, Philip Aiken and James Rutland.
The GHSE Committee is responsible for setting standards, monitoring performance and providing guidance to operational management on health, safety and environment matters.
In 2006, the GHSE Committee appointed an independent safety consultant to support its work and intends to engage an independent environmental specialist during 2007.
In 2006, the Groups Kazakhstan operations established an operational HSE committee reporting to the GHSE Committee with responsibility to review incidents, recommend improvements in systems, and implement risk reduction and training programmes top MANAGEMENT ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR MAKING SURE to prevent recurrence of incidents.
This committee STAFF ARE FULLY TRAINED IN SAFE WORKING PRACTICES consists of senior operational and HSE specialists AND THAT AN AWARENESS OF SAFETY ISSUES IS from the Kazakh Mining business.
EMBEDDED ACROSS THE GROUP BottoM BASED ON OUR ANALYSIS OF SAFETY A Group HSE Manager was appointed during the INCIDENTS, NEW SAFETY PROCEDURES AND PROTECTIVE year, reporting to the chairman of the GHSE Committee.
EqUIPMENT WERE INTRODUCED IN 2006 He is responsible for reporting on health, safety and environment issues, supporting and coordinating further development of the Groups occupational health and safety management system and environment management system, ensuring the implementation of policy and the transfer of best practice across the Group.
B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 49 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 SAfEtY For example, the Board commissioned an investigation In March 2006, the Board adopted a safety policy which into fall of ground incidents during the year, which had underlines its and managements belief that safety is as accounted for 56 incidents and nine fatalities across high a priority as production and that a safe working the Group in 2005.
An internal project team, with environment will be more productive and profitable.
support from an external consultant, has established The Board believes that work-related incidents are a trial programme of work at the South Mine, preventable and that all employees have a responsibility Zhezkazgan, which will review current geotechnical to achieve this goal.
Accordingly, systems are being best practice and risk assessment techniques.
The developed to ensure that hazards are identified, riskprogramme includes the training of managers assessed and, where practical, eliminated or otherwise supervisors in root cause analysis, geotechnical controlled.
The Board aims to reinforce these objectives investigations looking at bolting and other roof by the training, motivation, and participation of the support methods, structural issues and the use of whole workforce and by ensuring the policy becomes explosives.
Improvements will also be made in mining integral to the way the Groups businesses and supervision, technology and methods.
at the South Mine trial will be rolled out across the whole Group.
These are expected to enhance not Our safety performance only safety but also operational efficiency and mine Prior to 2006, accident statistics were only reported in profitability.
Progress on this initiative is reviewed at compliance with Kazakhstan legislation.
However, in every Board meeting.
order to provide a basis for comparison with our peer group, the Group intends to adopt Lost Time Injury Fall from height incidents 44 incidents, six fatalities Frequency Rate LTIFR as a key safety performance and plant machinery moving parts incidents 42 indicator.
Because of difficulties inherent within the incidents, two fatalities have also been analysed in Groups traditional methods of collating accident detail and a number of underlying causes identified, statistics, the transition to LTIFR has taken time to resulting in new safety procedures and the provision implement.
In 2006, metrics based on total recordable of new protective equipment and barriers across cases, lost time injury severity and fatalities have been the Group.
used to monitor performance whilst the Group develops its systems to be able to report reliably Internal and external audits undertaken by specialists on LTIFR in 2007. provide valuable feedback to the operational teams, which assist in improving safety risks.
A number of During the year, there were 32 fatalities at the Groups recently implemented initiatives and programmes to operations 2005: 37.
Fatalities at the Groups operations improve safety based on recommendations made by are unacceptable and the Board is committed to an externally commissioned health and safety audit significantly improve its safety performance.
Groups target will always be zero fatalities.
Training on safety issues is provided to employees All fatal accidents are reported to, and discussed and contractors on an ongoing basis to ensure an by, the Board and the GHSE Committee, and are awareness of safety issues is embedded across the investigated by a State-appointed commission, with Group, with special focus being placed on training whom senior operational management work closely.
in the identification of risks and hazard awareness.
These investigations determine the underlying causes Such training is designed to reinforce managements and make recommendations to prevent recurrence.
understanding of safety issues and create a working Lessons learnt are shared across the Group and environment in which all instances of injury at work with contractors.
50 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 coRpoR AtE RE SpoNSIBIlIt Y continued Kazakhmys aims to carry out its activities in an environmentally friendly manner, focusing on the responsible use and management of water, energy and waste, minimising air pollution and appropriate land rehabilitation All the Groups operations have adopted the Group causes of these illnesses.
These include work-related occupational health and safety management system checks based on individual exposure to occupational in compliance with local regulations, and it is intended hazards and the adaptation of plant and machinery to to develop the system to bring it up to OHSAS 18001 reduce exposure to, for example, vibration and specifications.
To this end, it is planned to have four repetitive strain-related injuries.
production units smelter, concentrator, underground mine and open pit mine certified by the end of 2007.
The Group has made significant investments in facilities These pilots will also be used during 2007 to develop to promote the wellbeing of employees including the a detailed implementation plan for all of the Groups upgrade to the sanatorium at Zheleznovodsk and operations with an operational life exceeding renovation of the Luchezarniy health complex by the five years.
Black Sea at a total cost of $14 million.
occUpAtIoNAl hEAlth ENvIRoNMENt The Group is committed to providing a healthy working Kazakhmys aims to carry out its activities in an environment for its employees and contractors.
The environmentally friendly manner, focusing on the Board believes that all work-related illnesses are responsible use and management of water, energy preventable and is working to reduce the incidence and waste, minimising air pollution and appropriate of occupational illness.
In addition, it is recognised land rehabilitation.
that lifestyle impacts on employee health within the workplace, with employee wellbeing programmes Performance targets are being incorporated into being implemented across the Group.
a Group environment policy being developed with assistance from external consultants for approval All employees receive a medical on joining and by the GHSE Committee and the Board in 2007. thereafter their health is regularly monitored to ensure At the same time, a baseline environmental audit is that occupational illnesses are treated as early as scheduled to be carried out in 2007 with the objective possible.
Whilst alcohol is strictly prohibited in all of identifying and addressing material environmental facilities in the interests of safety and a zero-tolerance issues across the Group.
policy operates in response to the use of unlawful drugs, the Group will support any employee Our environmental performance experiencing drug or alcohol-related illnesses.
To this The effective management of water is critical to the end, a number of Group-wide programmes have been long-term viability of the Groups operations, a number initiated aimed at promoting the general wellbeing of which are located in environmentally sensitive areas.
The Groups water usage rose by around 3.5% to 181,512 megalitres in 2006 2005: 175,300 megalitres due to During 2006, 122 new cases of occupational illnesses increased copper and zinc production at Group sites.
were reported 2005: 125, with the majority of these relating to back strain 43 cases, dust induced Notwithstanding this, the Group remains committed to bronchitis 35 cases and vibration induced nerve the efficient use of water and is taking steps to ensure damage 35 cases.
In response, medical surveillance that this commitment is translated into specific actions programmes were adapted to address the underlying to reuse and recycle water.
B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 51 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 OVER % % 20 9 decrease in waste generated reduction in SO emissions 2 Air emissions produced by Group facilities are a key Total energy used by Kazakhmys rose by 2% during area of focus.
The main emissions monitored are the year to 24.7 million GJ, as a result of increases in sulphur dioxide SO, nitrogen oxides NO, carbon production.
Energy audits are undertaken and projects 2 x dioxide CO, arsenic, ash and dust.
In 2006, SO commissioned to promote the use of energy efficient 2 2 emissions from our metallurgical operations were practices.
It is expected that over the next few years 775,837 tonnes 2005: 853,384 tonnes.
The reduction total energy consumption will increase due to the of SO emissions is a key environmental target and the planned development of a number of new operations.
2 Group has been pursuing a number of initiatives to reduce such emissions, particularly in the Balkhash The Group appreciates the need to minimise the area.
In 2002, it was decided to re-design the partially disturbance to land from its operations.
Kazakhstan built SO utilisation complex in Balkhash to include the legislation requires rehabilitation of all decommissioned 2 installation of a sulphuric acid plant to recover SO sites, which is reinforced within the subsoil use licences.
Work on the acid plant commenced in 2004 To this end, the Group is required to set aside a and is expected to be operational in 2007.
The plant dedicated provision for this purpose.
As at 31 December will have a capacity of 900,000 tonnes of sulphur 2006, this provision amounted to $28.4 million 2005: dioxide per annum, an SO recovery rate from $24.6 million.
2 incoming gases of over 98% and will create 1.25 million tonnes of sulphuric acid per annum, significantly The Group is focused on improving the quantification, reducing SO emissions in the Balkhash Region.
The collection and recycling of all solid wastes.
In 2006, 2 ecological benefits of this project will be augmented by Group operations generated 102.5 million tonnes of economic benefits for the Group provided by the sharp waste, a reduction of over 20% compared to 2005. growth in demand for sulphuric acid in the region in Waste from Group mining operations predominantly recent years.
The Group also plans to carry out an acid consists of waste rock extracted from underground plant survey at the Zhezkazgan Complex.
mines and overburden stripped from open pits.
In 2006, the Group increased waste rock backfilling Ecological monitoring in accordance with state nature in its underground mines and use of overburden protection legislation is agreed annually with the from its open pits for the pit slope benches.
opportunities to reuse and recycle a variety of wastes are currently being explored.
The Group also pays special attention to the monitoring of CO and greenhouse gas emissions, An environmental management system is in place at all 2 calculating CO, CH, N O, NO, CO, SF and carbon locations and complies with local regulations.
In 2007, 2 4 2 x 6 fluoride compound emissions from fuel firing from it is intended that these will be upgraded to meet ISO operations, including electricity and heat production, 14001 standards.
This process will be carried out in fuel firing by vehicles and strip coal mining.
In 2006, the same manner as the implementation of OHSAS CO equivalent emissions were 9.7 million tonnes.
18001 specifications, using pilot sites and the 2 subsequent roll-out across all Group operations with an operational life of more than five years.
52 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 coRpoR AtE RE SpoNSIBIlIt Y continued The Group understands that to continue to grow its business and to create shareholder value it must conduct its business affairs in a responsible manner oUr PeoPle and oUr CommUniTies Kazakhmys is committed to enhancing the welfare of its employees and the inhabitants of the communities in which it operates.
The Group understands that to continue to grow its business and to create shareholder value it needs to conduct its business affairs in a responsible manner.
The Group owns and maintains a number of recreational, medical and educational facilities both in various parts of Kazakhstan and outside the country to contribute to improving the welfare of its employees and the local community.
oUR pEoplE With a workforce of over 64,000 people, Kazakhmys is committed to improving the conditions in which employees operate and to optimise their performance.
Each employee has an employment agreement and collective employment agreements, primarily covering social benefits, are negotiated with representatives of local trade unions, which represent nearly all employees in Kazakhstan.
Kazakhmys aims to ensure that all employees perform to their highest potential by providing tailored training and development.
To this end, employees have the opportunity to participate in training and development top GULSARA IBRAYEVA BENEFITS FROM THE MODERN in a number of fields related to their role.
For example, FACILITIES AT A SCHOOL MAINTAINED BY THE GROUP each year a number of employees are selected to attend courses at universities and mining schools in BottoM ONGOING SUPPORT FOR THE HOSPITAL IN ZHEZKAZGAN ENSURES EMPLOYEES AND THE LOCAL Kazakhstan, China and Russia.
COMMUNITY CONTINUE TO BENEFIT FROM THE LATEST MEDICAL TREATMENTS Nutrition is an important part of employee healthcare and a Group-wide system has been established to contribute to employees diet, including the provision of canteens which serve healthy food to employees.
In Kazakhstan, this system is supported by a greenhouse complex of over 370 hectares, which provides a variety of fruit and vegetables to local canteens.
B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 53 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 $ M OVER 49 16,000 spent by the Group on community children benefited from Group supported activities medical recovery centres oUR coMMUNItY These medical facilities provide a valuable service to Kazakhmys is committed to supporting local the local community and are also available at no cost or communities and remaining sensitive to their needs.
at subsidised rates to Group employees, their families A number of recreational, medical and educational and pensioners.
facilities are owned and maintained by the Group both in various parts of Kazakhstan and outside the country.
In Zhezkazgan and Balkhash, Kazakhmys has handed In total, the Groups community spend amounted to over ownership of the heating distribution system to almost $49 million in 2006. the local community but continues to provide the hot water from its heating plants at favourable rates, and The education of local children is a priority, with the maintains the systems.
With temperatures reaching Group supporting a wide range of associated activities.
minus 40C in winter, the Group plays an important In 2006, Kazakhmys contributed almost $4 million to role in providing an essential service to the local a number of kindergartens and schools across community.
Kazakhmys also performs much of the road Kazakhstan.
Besides providing computer, sports and maintenance in both towns and uses its own aircraft to music facilities, the children are taught not only how to operate a regular commercial service between Almaty read, write, sing and dance but also about the culture and Zhezkazgan.
Furthermore, the Group continues to of Kazakhstan.
In addition, each kindergarten has wellinvest in training the local workforce under the equipped physiotherapy rooms run by qualified provisions of certain subsoil contracts.
One of the main areas where Kazakhmys contributes to The Group also supports eight medical recovery the community is in the provision of sporting facilities.
centres for children in Kazakhstan.
These take the form The Group owns seven major sports complexes that of summer camps where children can recuperate from are visited by approximately 500,000 people per year.
illnesses through outdoor excursions and a variety of These provide facilities for local people and employees leisure activities.
These centres are usually located in to participate in ice hockey, football, basketball, tennis, rural areas and have full healthcare services, as well as track and field athletics, martial arts and swimming, leisure facilities including computer rooms, libraries among others.
As well as a first-class basketball team, and playrooms.
Each year, over 16,000 children Kazakhmys ice hockey team plays in the major league benefit from these centres.
Last year the Group completed the construction of a new sports centre in Satpaev, costing One of the Groups most successful projects has over $20 million.
The centre includes a swimming been the construction of a hospital in Zhezkazgan.
pool, indoor football and hockey pitches, and modern Continuing support is provided to the hospital, gym facilities.
including the purchase of newly developed medical equipment.
This facility allows employees and the Kazakhmys intends to maintain and improve its support local community to benefit from a wide range of for local communities and to ensure its presence is treatments including drug therapy, physiotherapy, a source of positive influence for those whom its hydrotherapeutic procedures and dental services.
Further health and diagnostic centres are supported in Balkhash, Karaganda and Almaty, and sanatorium facilities are available in Almaty, Zheleznovodsk and Karkaralinsk, which treat and rehabilitate more than 10,000 patients a year.
In total, almost $11 million was spent by the Group in 2006 on hospital and medical centres throughout Kazakhstan.
