Social Responsibility The Board is responsible for ensuring Renewable energy In Austria and Germany, Keller has been that Group companies have effective In Germany, we worked on the involved in a number of projects using systems for managing significant social, foundations for several wind farms: geothermal power for heating systems.
environmental, ethical and health and one of these was the Borkum West Wind In such projects, Kellers foundations have safety risks, which are appropriate to Park, 45 kilometres offshore in the North been designed to accommodate absorber the geographies in which they operate.
Sea, where we performed drilling works tubes, which conduct heat from the earth The Boards responsibility is discharged to a depth of 50m at times through into the buildings.
through the Managing Directors of the storm force seven conditions.
is destined to accommodate 12 fiveDam remediation and ood control megawatt wind turbines taller than the Group companies continued their Environment Eiffel Tower, which will deliver electricity involvement in a variety of dam Contributing to a better environment to German households by 2008.
Another remediation schemes, forming part of Kellers solutions are often contributors wind energy project was the Kittlitz a worldwide focus on upgrading major to environmental projects.
These include Wind Park in Brandenburg, where dams to prevent premature failure due to land reclamation schemes, soil erosion Keller used vibro compaction and vibro soil erosion and earthquake.
For example, 3 control, ood control, decontamination replacement techniques to improve the we are performing some two million m of or containment of contamination, the soil conditions on a former coal mining sand compaction as part of a ood control preparation of browneld sites and, site, for the construction of five new and irrigation project at the Oued Harka of growing importance, foundations wind power plants.
dam in Tunisia and have constructed a for renewable energy facilities.
Examples Amongst the many other renewable 25m deep slurry wall for a new dam in of some such projects undertaken energy projects in which we were involved Algerias Mostaganem region.
during the year are given below.
last year were: a new storage tank facility Over the past few years, our The Groups acquisition of for bio-diesel fuel at Galena Park, Texas, companies have been heavily involved Phi in April 2006 added some new where Hayward Baker installed vibro-piers: in ood protection schemes in Poland, environmentally friendly solutions to compaction grouting works to correct Slovakia and Austria, where our works the Groups product offering.
Phis settlements at a newly constructed have included improving the core sealing soft-faced reinforcing systems, which ethanol plant in Iowa: foundations for of river dykes to reduce their permeability represent about 75% of their sales, are solar eld panels at the new Eldorado and increasing the height of the dykes to an alternative to sheet piling which reduce Solar Generating Station at Boulder City, improve their overall stability.
Last year the need to remove soil and to import Nevada: and vibro stone columns to Hayward Baker performed two extensive expensive ll, whilst the use of softwood support what is heralded as the countrys dry soil mixing operations as part of the type timber a renewable source has biggest biomass power plant near levee repair programme in New Orleans: a reduced carbon footprint compared Lockerbie in Scotland, capable of treatment of the soft soils surrounding the with alternative solutions.
generating 44 megawatts of power proposed 17th Street Canal oodgate will annually enough for 70,000 homes.
allow the oodgate structure to resist high In India, we are providing drilling and pressures associated with storm surge: grouting services for one of the new and some 4,500 columns, each 40 feet hydropower schemes, forming part in length and 2.6 feet in diameter, were of the Teesta Barrage Project.
installed for soil stabilisation below the proposed West Bank Levee P24.
24 Keller Group plc Social Responsibility Keller undertakes ground improvement works on the site of a former coal mine in Brandenburg, Germany, for the construction of the Kittlitz Wind Park.
Decontamination and control Environmental management systems Environmental management systems Two of our commonly used techniques driven of contamination Many of our site activities do have cast-in-situ DCIS piling and vibro concrete Our US businesses were involved in environmental impacts most notably, columns VCC are displacement systems, a number of decontamination projects emissions of noise, dust and slurry, and which do not generate spoil from the ground.
For example, in Memphis, the use of specialist products such as Where the ground contains toxic matter, Tennessee we undertook a pilot study grouts.
Risk assessments are carried displacement systems ensure that the materials which looked into using jetting techniques out at the start of all projects and where stay in situ, rather than having to be transported typically by road to a treatment or disposal site.
to install deep permeable reactive barriers hazards are identied, steps are taken to Our vibro replacement technique, which for the remediation of ground water mitigate the risks.
We have a continuous we use even more frequently than DCIS piling contamination.
As part of the Mott Haven programme of trying to reduce and VCC, uses only inert stone in its processes Schools Complex clean-up project in environmental impacts by, for example, and is usually an alternative to more expensive New Yorks Bronx district, Hayward Baker selecting new plant with reduced noise concrete or steel piling options.
The carbon undertook jet grouting and tie-backs to emissions, researching the viability of new, content of this technique is considerably less than piling options.
Like our DCIS piling and support a retaining wall, to allow more benign materials and seeking better VCC systems, it is a displacement system and contaminated materials to be excavated.
ways of capturing waste from drilling.
offers the same advantage of creating no spoil.
And, also in the state of New York, we For example, where possible, KGE A further benefit of our vibro systems installed a jet grouting base stabilisation in the UK is introducing the use of grout is that we are increasingly employing recycled mat for the new Sawmill Creek Pump based on bentonite plus, instead of aggregates where and when we are able to Station, as part of a larger overall project pulverised fuel ash PFA the use of source them.
In England, for example, KGE used around 40,000 tonnes of recycled to clean up Onondaga Lake in Syracuse, which is provoking increasing concerns.
aggregate, representing some 30% of its one of the most polluted lakes in the US.
Bentonite plus, which has significant requirement in 2006.
Elsewhere, Keller Ground bulk-handling advantages, was used Engineering in Australia installed a last year in a large mine inll job, as hydraulic barrier to control the part of the project to reopen Scotlands contamination of groundwater caused  rail line.
by coal gasication processes at a former Makers clients are increasingly gasworks site at Armidale.
In the UK, asking for materials to come from contamination removal formed part of sustainable sources.
To ensure that it a packaged solution for a housebuilder can comply with these requirements, developing the site of a former sand Makers has actively sought to appoint and gravel quarry.
suppliers who can provide materials, particularly timber, from sustainable and traceable sources.
25 Keller Group plc Social Responsibility Social Responsibility Working with the community Sponsorship and donations Regular evening meetings, surgeries Makers Social Housing Partnering team, Many projects in which Group companies and workshops are held with residents working closely with the London Borough are involved are located in remote areas, throughout the duration of a contract, of Greenwich is helping to bring the game away from local populations and, giving an opportunity to openly discuss of rugby league to the local community by therefore, there is usually little impact on, the works and to gain useful feedback sponsoring a local schools initiative organised or relationship with, the local community.
on how best to deliver the project with by the Greenwich Admirals, London and North Occasionally, we nd ourselves Kents top amateur rugby league club, and the residents in occupation.
Periodic supporting related community events.
Similarly, working in environmentally sensitive newsletters are issued to keep all in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets, areas, which call for specic methods of residents up to date with the activities where Makers undertook the renewal of kitchens working.
This was the case in the Hunter on site and the progress of the works.
and bathrooms to bring two estates up to the region of Australia, where we worked This dialogue is backed up by an Governments Decent Homes standard, during the year on the Sandgate rail grade interactive Community section on Makers sponsored Christmas lunches for separation project.
A new section of track the estates well-established OAP clubs.
For most of our businesses, however, was to be installed between the existing support for local community projects is indirect track and environmentally sensitive Health and safety by, for example, sponsoring or supporting through wetlands.
Many threatened local species Principles of health and safety matched funding the efforts of employees who had the potential to be affected by the The Board is committed to providing a are involved in charitable or community projects.
upgrade project but Keller was able to healthy and safe working environment These are many and varied and in 2006 offer a ground improvement solution included a mission trip to Malawi, where one for all employees and others affected by of our UK employees was involved in building using dry soil mixing technology which Kellers works.
The Managing Director of a playground and doing some light construction was unlikely to disturb the local wildlife.
each division is responsible for ensuring work at one of the day care centres for The one business in the Group that formal health and safety policies are AIDS orphans.
which does have a major impact on the developed, published and maintained communities in which it works is Makers and that organisational arrangements which, through its social housing for health and safety management refurbishment schemes, has significant are established and maintained in interfaces with residents and community the businesses within their division.
Makers has an experienced, Responsibility for implementing the in-house resident liaison team which health and safety policies rests with manages these interfaces on a projectthe line management of each business, by-project basis.
whilst each individual employee has a responsibility for complying with the policy.
As a minimum standard, local policies and organisational arrangements for health and safety must include compliance with all legal requirements and the creation of a safety awareness culture by encouraging employee involvement in health and safety matters.
26 Keller Group plc Social Responsibility The Board is committed to providing a healthy and safe working environment for all employees and others affected by Kellers works.
Safety performance in 2006 These KPIs show an improvement Case, Hayward Baker, McKinney, The Board reviews the health and safety in the 2006 safety performance of the Anderson and Suncoast each employ performance of the operating companies US foundation businesses, Australia and full-time safety professionals who coon a quarterly basis, as well as monitoring Makers in the UK, whilst the performance operate on safety improvement initiatives leading indicators, such as hours spent of KGE in the UK deteriorated slightly and such as sharing results of incident on safety training and safety improvement that of Suncoast and Continental Europe investigations: running tailored safety initiatives.
Where possible, the Board & Overseas was disappointing.
However, programmes: developing consistent compares safety performance against the long-term trend across the whole safety audit criteria, which enables them industry norms.
Standard measures Group is one of improvement, with total to conduct peer reviews: and establishing of safety performance, as published reportable accidents falling from 226 in a joint supplier programme for safety by national safety regulators, vary from 2003 to 146 in 2006 in spite of an increase supplies and bought-in training, to country to country.
Within the Group, in both the average number of employees improve consistency and buying power.
Keller uses the accident frequency rate and the number of hours worked.
Safety training and safety audits AFR and accident incident rate AIR continue to be a main priority for our to track the safety performance of its US US safety managers.
Specic safety businesses, where AFR is the number In the US, a construction companys initiatives introduced in 2006 included: of accidents per 100,000 hours worked safety record, relative to other businesses, Certied Crane Operator certication and AIR is the number of accidents is usually measured through the for McKinneys crane operators: per 100,000 employees and where experience modication rating EMR.
Speak Up Listen Up an accidents comprise fatalities, major A low score indicates a good safety employee focused safety feedback injuries as dened by the Health and record.
In 2006, the combined EMR for process and updating of the injury Safety Executive and injuries involving our US foundation businesses was 0.59, and illness prevention programme more than three days absence.
against an industry standard rating of at Anderson: The AFRs and AIRs for 2006 and 1.00 and a previous years rating of 0.63. a new eet and driver safety 2005 are shown below: programme, to help prevent and reduce motor accidents at McKinney: and AFRs and AIRs a safety website for Suncoast 2006 2006 2005 2005 employees to give guidance and AFR AIR AFR AIR raise the level of safety awareness USA, excluding Suncoast 0.56 1,009 0.62 1,081 throughout the organisation.
Suncoast 0.47 1,075 0.14 340 Continental Europe & Overseas 2.93 5,684 2.05 4,369 UK Keller Ground Engineering KGE 1.99 3,971 1.91 3,811 UK Makers 0.31 616 0.32 642 Australia 1.98 4,549 2.29 5,092 27 Keller Group plc Social Responsibility Social Responsibility Continental Europe & Overseas During 2006, KGE obtained accreditation In 2006, Makers introduced several British In our Continental Europe & Overseas for its safety management schemes for Safety Council BSC training packages, operations, a procedure for on-site Health & Safety OHSAS 18001 and for including the Level 1 Certicate in Health health and safety forms part of the Environmental Management ISO 14001.
& Safety, Level 2 Risk Assessment and quality management system.
In addition, Safety initiatives during the year included Level 2 Certicate in Supervising Staff.
operating units are required to respect the introduction of random drugs testing, These are being delivered in-house by and comply with all local regulations.
increased training for plant operators the Health & Safety team, and assessed Training courses are held on a regular to reduce the dependency on ladders on externally by the BSC.
In addition, the new basis in order to improve risk awareness sites and a revised procedure for loading Makers Integrated Management System on site.
Each business unit employs a lorries to eliminate the use of ladders, for quality and safety management was safety officer, either on a fullor part-time thus enabling compliance with the implemented.
This meets the OHSAS basis, according to the business need new Working at Height Regulations.
18001 standard for safety management and local regulations.
Performance is For 2007, KGE has targeted a and external accreditation for the system monitored by the divisional head ofce reduction of 10% in reportable accidents, is being sought.
in Germany and compared to national based on a three-year rolling average.
Once again, there were no HSE standards, where these are available.
Makers recorded four reportable prosecutions or enforcement notices accidents in the year, the same number brought against either of our UK UK as in the previous year.
Again, the average businesses in 2006 and there are In the UK, KGE saw an increase in number of employees and the cumulative none pending.
reportable accidents in 2006 to 14 2005: hours worked were up on the previous 13.
However, both the average number year, so that its AIR reduced to 616, Australia of employees and the cumulative hours which compares very favourably with a The key safety objective for our operations worked were up by around 11% on the construction industry average, excluding in Australia is to achieve zero lost-time previous year, resulting in an AIR of 3,971 fatalities, of 2,041. injuries.
Apart from Piling Contractors, compared with an average AIR of 2,758 which Keller acquired in August 2006 for members of the Federation of Piling and for which data will be included in Specialists, the most appropriate future reports, the Australian businesses comparator group.
recorded ten lost-time injuries, down from 11 in 2004.
These statistics should be viewed in the context of increases in the average number of employees and the cumulative hours worked which were up by 8% and 10% respectively.
The AFR and AIR were much improved on 2005 and remain below the national construction industry average.
28 28 Keller Gr Keller Group plc oup plc Social Responsibility Management development includes a strategic programme offered each year to some 25 managers from across the Group.
Following the appointment of a new Employees Safety Manager for Frankipile towards Throughout the year our businesses the end of 2005, a new company Safety have continued to use a variety of Policy and Procedures Manual was media and forums for communicating adopted and placed on the company with their employees including company intranet, with training for all employees, newsletters, consultative councils, results including management, on the presentations, suggestion schemes and implementation of the manual completed informal channels, such as companyin the first half of the year.
Since then, wide social events.
the Safety Manager has been working In addition to job-specic and safety with his counterparts in Piling Contractors training, in which considerable resource and Vibro-Pile to formulate consistent is invested by all our businesses, approaches to safety statistical reporting the Group has various management and policies: and to establish a forum development programmes.
These where health and safety issues can be comprise a number of modules, which regularly discussed and addressed across are offered locally in the main centres the Australian business units.
of operation: a strategic programme Safety training has been stepped offered each year to some 25 managers up and many safety procedures have from across the Group: and the further been formalised or standardised across development of individuals at, or just below, the Australian businesses.
We believe Board level through executive programmes the new focus on safety and fresh at international business schools.
initiatives introduced during the year It is our policy to employ and train have been at the heart of the disabled people wherever their skills improvements seen in 2006. and qualications allow and when suitable vacancies are available.
Disabled employees are encouraged to undertake training and career development to prepare them for promotion.
Should existing employees become disabled, every effort is made to nd appropriate work and training if appropriate.
29 29 Keller Gr Keller Group plc oup plc Social Responsibility
