Objectives Corporate The Board recognises that the Groups short and long-term social economic development can and should be achieved only through a responsible approach to social, environmental and ethical issues responsibility SEE.
To this end it has identified the following objectives which are derived from the Boards assessment of the primary SEE risks and opportunities facing the Group: 1 To increase profitability by making more efficient use of resources, including labour, materials, water and energy.
2 To reduce the environmental impact of our operations through effective waste management, appropriate choice of materials and careful consideration of design and management of our supply chain.
3 To provide leadership in the raising of awareness and understanding of sustainability in our workforce, members of our supply chain, our clients and other stakeholders and to encourage participation in achieving our goals.
4 To continue to support local communities, through public consultation, by pursuing opportunities for employment, interaction with schools and support for local wellbeing.
5 To continue to recruit apprentices and graduates and to develop and train our workforce to raise aspirations and to By providing our clients with the highest possible meet the demands of the future.
quality of service and through sustainable, 6 To set targets to achieve greater sustainability year on year.
profitable growth, our vision is to be the most 7 To provide a safe working environment for all our staff and highly respected company in the industry.
the general public and to continuously strive to improve our We will continue to build on our strengths and health & safety performance.
further develop our areas of expertise for the The executive directors are responsible for the implementation benefit of all associated with the Group.
of these objectives within their divisions and report to the Board periodically as to progress or when material issues arise.
The Board is also kept informed of SEE issues through the mechanisms described further below.
Environmental We are committed to our sustainability policy, to environmental protection and improved performance.
The policy will be implemented in all that we do via the aims and objectives stated below: Strict compliance with the letter and intent of all relevant legal requirements, codes of practice and regulations.
The organisation of our operations in order to minimise pollution and disturbance to our neighbours and the general public.
Kier Building Maintenance was praised for its diverse workforce and practices as The efficient use of materials and resources with particular regard winner of the first ever Diversity Award at the 10th Contract Journal Awards.
to the long-term sustainability of consumable items, both directly and through our supply chain.
Minimising the need to travel but where travel is unavoidable, consider the least environmentally damaging system.
The establishment and maintenance of management structures with specific responsibility for the implementation of our sustainability policy within our operating companies and divisions.
The establishment of targets to measure our environmental performance in key areas as set out on page 31.
Regular management reviews of the content and implementation of environmental policy with the objective of achieving continuous improvement in performance through the ongoing establishment of best practice.
29 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 vision as the most highly respected Group in the marketplace.
We Corporate are committed to offering good career opportunities for youngsters social in construction skills through innovative apprenticeship and training programmes.
These award-winning initiatives are based on responsibility recruiting young people from the local communities within which continued we work to offer on-the-job training delivered by our own experts.
With good calibre people, upholding our core values, at the forefront of all our operations, we are focused on sustaining our business for the future and adding value for our clients, customers, shareholders and all those with whom we do business.
We are a committed equal opportunities employer.
Our equality and diversity policy is available on our website.
John Dodds is the director responsible for human resource matters, including health & safety.
He meets regularly with the head of personnel and reports to the Board on any risks or issues that are identified.
Recognising the need to meet our commitment in the future to our past and present employees, we have taken significant steps this year to address our pensions deficit as described in more detail on page 24.
Training and people development The Kier Group is committed to the lifelong development of all its employees.
Our approach involves recruiting talented people into the industry, supported by a career development framework that supports people from entry level to senior leadership and prepares Individual operating companies have appointed directors our teams to meet and exceed our customers requirements.
Our responsible for the environmental policy, some of whom form career development framework incorporates a series of programmes, the Groups Sustainability Committee chaired by Paul Sheffield.
supporting people at all stages of their careers.
These directors monitor implementation and are responsible for the management of environmental risk providing regular reports At the introductory level of the career development programme, to the Kier Group Board via John Dodds who is responsible for we recruited over 60 graduates and 70 students to start their environmental matters.
We offer a comprehensive and structured graduate scheme that includes technical and managerial The full Group environmental policy is available on our website, training to recognised professional standards.
This helps to motivate which also has details of environmental news and awards attained people in the Group to achieve their career goals, and to attract by our various businesses.
high levels of new recruits.
The Group continues to work with schools, colleges, universities and careers advisors to promote the Kier in the community construction industry as a career choice and has over 100 people Kier Group and its trading companies enjoy positive relationships currently studying for technical qualifications on various training within the communities where we operate and where our schemes having joined the Group as school leavers.
We also have employees live.
over 160 craft apprentices in construction skills.
Over 10% of our workforce is on new entry training programmes, and this helps us We will seek to enhance these relationships by learning to to maintain and improve the talent of our workforce.
This balanced understand the needs of these communities, supporting projects approach will be enhanced further over the next year.
which increase well-being within the community.
Wherever appropriate, we donate to local charities and sponsor many sports The Group actively encourages all employees to achieve full teams, supporting our own employees in their local fund-raising professional membership in their relevant discipline.
We also donate the resources of our craft based teams the Group has in place a Graduate development programme taking to assist needy causes where their skills are best suited.
graduate level employees to full membership in over 10 recognised professional institutions.
Kier is a National Vocational Qualification We will continue to put safety first and support our staff with NVQ centre, and is recognised by the Joint Awarding Body as a occupational and lifestyle advice.
model of best practice for the delivery of NVQs in construction management.
We currently have over 60 professional and technical We carry out safety presentations for schools at every staff working towards construction management NVQs.
Additionally, opportunity and have published educational literature aimed we are delivering specialist plant operations NVQs at our at pupils and young people and produced a range of supporting Greenburn opencast mining site.
Safety training is a priority for all staff.
Kier has introduced a Employment comprehensive accredited safety training system covering all staff In order for our business to be sustainable, Kier Group will continue over the last year, with over 550 people attending accredited health to attract, develop and retain employees of the calibre to deliver our & safety programmes in the last year.
Our technical training is Kier Caribbean and Industrials Antiguan health & safety programme involves all members of the site team.
Every operative spends a week working as part of the health & safety team, receives in-depth training in all aspects of site safety and sits an exam at the end of the week.
All staff at the Sandals expansion project in Antigua have now received pass certificates in recognition of their health & safety awareness.
30 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 based around the findings of various best practice groups and 1 helps to disseminate knowledge around the Group.
Our management development programmes support the Groups aim of developing people within the business.
During 2005 the number of promotions within Kier almost doubled from the previous year as people were prepared for more senior roles.
Kier has been running an Executive Leadership Programme based around defined competencies that is giving structured development to senior management and directors.
This is linked to the Groups strategy of sharing best practice.
During 2006, Kier has introduced a Directors Development Programme aimed at supporting our business leaders.
Health & Safety 2 Throughout the year Kier Group continued to build on the positive approach to health & safety that it values in all its employees and supply chain members.
This approach, coupled with the Groups Dont Walk By campaign and its ongoing focus on behavioural issues, has made everyone more vigilant and proactive in identifying and correcting health & safety issues, preventing them from becoming major problems.
By addressing the risk and not the symptom, Kier has brought about significant reductions in its accident incident rate referred to on page 24.
In recognition, the Group received nine gold, two silver, and one bronze award from RoSPA and seven British Safety Council Awards.
Through their positive, proactive attitude, Kier Groups staff and supply chain work tirelessly to reduce the potential for accidents 1.
Former Home Secretary David Blunkett at the formal reopening of Kier Sheffields to happen, and to protect the long-term health of those working Sharrow Industries workshop following its refurbishment.
Sharrow Industries supplies all PVCu windows and kitchen furniture for the Sheffield Decent Homes programme.
The continuous roll-out of the ISO18001 14001 More than half of the 39 employees have disabilities or medical conditions registration programme has ensured that high standards and ranging from auditory and visual impairment through to learning difficulties and awareness continue to be raised and the third party audit carried epilepsy.
Individual employee programmes of training, adaptation and support from out by BSI ensures that the Group continues to deliver best practice.
organisations such as Work Step contribute to employee and business development on an ongoing basis.
In the last year the workshop has produced 22,000 window This continuing improvement approach culminated in Kier Group units, 18,000 kitchen units, and 4,000 composite doors.
being awarded the highly coveted Quality in Construction Health 2.
Phased reinstatement at our opencast coal mining operations at Greenburn in & Safety Management Award 2006.
This was truly a magnificent Ayrshire.
To achieve maximum value from these operations, we are also extracting team effort for both Kier Groups staff and supply chain.
This is then made into buff-coloured bricks for use by Kier Homes in the construction of their new developments in Scotland.
This has reduced overall lorry Our health & safety policy, along with relevant news and awards movements and the end product blends sympathetically with local architecture.
can be found on our website.
The Group head of safety, health & environment reports to the Board on a monthly basis in order that material issues, risks and developing trends are quickly addressed.
Customers Good customer care is one of our fundamental principles and we have a high level of involvement with our customers and clients to give them every opportunity to provide valuable feedback.
Many of our customers are included in project groups, surveys, conferences, workshops and social functions.
Maintaining respect for our customers who include the thousands of tenants in whose homes we frequently work is based on the need to consult with and listen to them.
We are committed to providing our customers and clients with a reliable service based on continuous improvement and delivering what we promise.
Environmental key performance indicators Actual Actual Actual 03 04 04 05 05 06 Waste as % of Construction revenue 0.30 0.26 0.30 2 Energy use m including Support Services 10.29 9.91 13.24 CO2 emissions from staff vehicles including Support Services 8,972 8,412 8,986 Environmental training days per person year 0.13 0.19 0.10 Infringements 20 0 Cost of waste adjusted by 15% to allow for landfill tax increase No adjustment has been made to reflect increased energy costs over the year 31 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
