14 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Social responsibility Ingrained in our culture Kingfishers vision for social responsibility We will ensure that the long-term development of our business is sustainable and reflects the values and expectations of our communities.
Kingfisher is committed to being a responsible company, ensuring that its operations are environmentally and socially sustainable for the long-term.
The Group faces many complex and challenging issues from factory working conditions in its supply chain to timber sourcing and climate change.
Although Kingfisher doesnt have all the answers, it is firmly committed to working with others to seek solutions and to improve performance.
Kingfisher sees responsible business practice as good business sense, helping to manage risks as well as opening up new business opportunities.
During 2005 Kingfisher developed Kingfisher is committed to ensuring that its wood and paper a more comprehensive and products come either from proven, well managed forests or systematic approach in order to recycled material.
In 2005 Kingfisher introduced buying standards identify and manage key environmental on timber which provide guidance to buyers and suppliers.
A new Social Kingfishers businesses are making progress in sourcing Responsibility Policy and management system timber from forests that are certified as well managed.
For called Steps to Responsible Growth have been example, at B&Q UK around 75% of all timber product lines are introduced.
This section provides an overview of Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified.
At Castorama France Kingfishers progress during 2005.
A separate Social all garden furniture is FSC or Tropical Forest Trust TFT certified Responsibility Report is available on and at Castorama Italy over 134 products in the garden range www.
com SR and a printed summary is were FSC certified by August 2005. available on request.
The report includes an independent assurance statement from URS Verification.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 15 Kingfishers Social Responsibility Policy Focus areas Issues 1 Chemicals 1 Product T 2imber stewardship 3 Supplier environmental performance 4 Product environmental and social impact 2 Climate 5 change Energy T 6ransport management 3 Product 7 disposal Sustainable W 8aste operation Packaging 9 4 10 Factory working conditions Supply chain 5 Respect 11 for the diversity of people Equality and Social Responsibility Policy diversity Kingfishers Social Responsibility Policy identifies 12 specific issues in six key areas of focus product stewardship, 6 Storeneighbourhoods 12 energy management, sustainable operation, supply chain, Community equality and diversity and community investment each with investment clear aims and policy commitments.
Steps to Responsible Growth Steps to Responsible Growth sets out specific actions on each of the 12 issues in Kingfishers Policy.
It identifies three levels of progress for each issue: Minimum action a meaningful start with a commitment to improve Policy target meeting the basic requirements of the policy Leadership position recognised as a leader in action and debate The progress of each operating company is assessed quarterly and reported on www.
com SR. Kingfisher has also identified social responsibility key performance indicators KPIs and plans to report these next year.
The following targets have been set: All operating companies to achieve minimum action on all 12 issues by the end of February 2007 Encouraging customers Improving factory All operating companies to achieve the policy target to reuse carrier bags working conditions action on all 12 issues by the end of 2010 To encourage customers to use Kingfisher recognises that it is Responsibilities fewer plastic bags, B&Q UK has not always easy for suppliers Kingfisher recognises that real progress will only be launched a trial in Scotland to to achieve the standards set made if the senior management is committed to social charge customers 5p for every out in its Code of Conduct on responsibility.
In 2005 the Board decided to integrate plastic carrier bag.
fully its social responsibility governance into the agenda the proceeds on to Keep In 2005 Kingfisher introduced of its Executive Committee.
Scotland Beautiful to fund an Information Pack on Factory Kingfisher also has a Social Responsibility Steering anti-litter campaigns.
The trial Working Conditions in order Group which brings together representatives from each has seen an 82% reduction in to provide greater guidance operating company to discuss progress and share best carrier bags used and there are and support for suppliers.
The social responsibility department provides plans for further trials and China, workshops were held support and guidance to the operating companies.
rolling out the scheme nationally for factory managers and if feedback is positive.
Kingfisher buyers to encourage as at 31 January 2005 closer collaboration.
Social Environmental 16 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Operating review UK In 2005 consumer demand was seriously impacted by higher taxes and living costs, as well as concerns about household indebtedness, interest rates and the direction of house prices.
A 15% decline in housing transactions and 8% fewer planning applications for home alterations compounded the weakness in demand for bigger ticket projects such as kitchens and bathrooms for the nine months to September 2005.
B&Q estimates that the Repair, Maintenance and Improvement market declined nearly 4% in the year, the weakest market for over 10 years.
B&Qs market share was 14.8% 2004 05: 14.7% and B&Q continued to be ranked as the number one DIY retailer by Verdict in its 2006 Customer Service Index.
B&Q Trading B&Qs total sales fell 3.7% to 3.9 billion down 7.8% like-for-like LFL.
Customer footfall was lower and sales in all major categories were weak with sales of kitchens, bathrooms and bedrooms the worst affected.
Retail profit fell 52.0% to 208.5 million reflecting the lower sales and lower margins as a result across many ranges including paint and light bulbs.
A new of stock clearance, more aggressive discounting and price competition The Real Deal marketing campaign was launched with more in the weak market.
Furthermore, underlying LFL cost inflation was prominent communication of great value.
B&Q also extended the 4% with store rents rising by 6% and business rates by 15%.
Diamond Card, its over 60s discount card, to every store in the UK.
Management action In the second quarter of 2005 06, it In addition, B&Q trialled two 10% off weekends and two Big became apparent that the UK home improvement market was in a Project weekends to stimulate demand.
These drove footfall and sharp cyclical down-turn with little prospect of an early bounce-back.
market share in higher ticket projects and reduced stocks to below New management acted to improve competitiveness and reduce last years levels.
During 2006 07 new store tills will be introduced costs so that B&Q is better suited to operate in the current market, with improved systems functionality, allowing promotions to be and well placed to benefit from a market upturn when this comes.
specifically targeted at major projects.
Immediate priorities were to develop new product ranges, reinforce Service improvements Service Squads were introduced in price competitiveness, enhance customer service and improve store over 100 of B&Qs biggest stores in the year and this roll-out will environments whilst reducing operating and fixed costs.
Service Squads are shop floor staff, linked Product range development UK consumers continue to with two-way radio communications, whose sole responsibility is regard product choice as the key driver in deciding which DIY store customer assistance.
Stores were also cleared of excess point of to visit.
B&Q has the widest range of all DIY stores with its largest sale material which improved navigation.
Staff servicing the Warehouse stores stocking around 32,000 products.
Half of all the Showroom categories have undergone specialist training to help smaller, older stores have now been converted to the customers plan and design their kitchen and bathroom projects mini-Warehouse format with an increase of up to 30% in product and more specialist consultants have been scheduled to work choice.
B&Q also plans to broaden its ranges in its Warehouse in-store during busy periods.
For example, from a standing start, B&Q became the UKs Store development Following 10 years of expanding the number one retailer of fixed air-conditioning following the Warehouse store network, B&Q has almost twice the selling space introduction of an exclusive DIY range sourced from the Far East.
of its nearest direct competitor.
Recognising that finding and During the second half of the year, the process for reviewing and obtaining planning permission for economically attractive sites for updating existing product ranges was overhauled with the aim of new Warehouse stores was becoming increasingly difficult, B&Q reducing the time from concept to shelf.
New products developed a smaller format mini-Warehouse.
This has been very introduced in the year performed well, including updated ranges of successful: popular with customers, easier to develop and with tiles, wooden floors, bathrooms, kitchens and plants, with more good financial returns.
Building on the existing Warehouse estate new products planned for 2006 07. and the new mini-Warehouse format, B&Q has re-focused its store Price competitiveness B&Q continued its long-term Every development on the mini-Warehouse format and the updating of Day Low Pricing strategy on everyday products, reducing prices the larger Warehouse stores to showcase finished home Better products at better prices New ranges at B&Q include this Clevedon kitchen which was featured in a The Real Deal television advertising campaign in March.
The kitchen has solid oak doors and frames and is part of the Select range of mid-priced kitchens being rolled out to all Warehouse stores.
Clear direction firm action improvement projects alongside component tools and materials.
30 million was saved in the year in stores and supply chain by It will close older, smaller stores not suitable for conversion due to flexing costs in response to lower sales.
B&Qs central office was their proximity to other B&Q stores and limit new store openings to streamlined with the loss of 400 roles which will result in annualised markets where B&Q is not currently represented.
During the year, six Warehouse and eight mini-Warehouse stores opened and 21 stores were converted to the UK Trade mini-Warehouse format.
In total 25 stores closed, 17 as part of the Screwfix Direct Following the previous years expansion of space rationalisation programme.
B&Q now has 114 Warehouses, fulfilment capacity, sales grew 18.7% to 271.3 million and retail 88 mini-Warehouses and 120 unconverted smaller stores.
Format profit was 15.7 million 2004 05: 7.6 million.
Sales benefited trials continue in four Warehouse stores aimed at developing a from range development and a bigger catalogue.
A further six trial modernisation blueprint for the Warehouse estate.
These trials are Screwfix Direct Trade Counters were opened in the year and are expected to complete during 2006. proving very popular with customers.
Fifteen more are planned to At the end of 2006 07 B&Q expects to have 114 Warehouses, open in 2006 07.
117 mini-Warehouses and 91 unconverted smaller stores.
In total, Trade Depot Two trial branches opened towards the end of nine new stores will open, six existing Warehouses will be the year, focused on serving general builders and specialist trade revamped and 23 older smaller stores will be converted.
Trade Depot offers a similar range of products to the plans to downsize 17 Warehouses, three are expected to be Brico Dpt in France, including doors and windows, heating and complete by the end of the year.
plumbing and kitchens and bathrooms.
The early response from Cost reduction Initiatives to reduce costs have been customers is encouraging and three further branches are planned focused on central functions and productivity improvements.
