10 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 People Aiming Competitive pay and conditions Salary levels are competitive for the local market and supplemented with attractive healthcare and bonus high schemes that reward good performance.
ShareSave schemes, where practicable under local regulations, Retailing is a people business and Kingfishers success encourage employees to become shareholders in Kingfisher depends on the people that work in, or support, its stores.
with over 8,000 staff participating worldwide.
As a result, Kingfisher works hard to attract, develop and retain the best employees at all levels, and ensure they have Specialist training challenging and rewarding careers.
Significant emphasis is placed on training colleagues to help Operating stores in 11 countries and product sourcing them do a better job and develop themselves personally.
For offices in a further three means adapting policies and example, at B&Q in the UK, over 19,000 employees attended practices to reflect local cultures and customs.
However, training courses at the B&Q University last year on subjects there are some key common values and a common aim of such as product knowledge and in-store computer systems.
attracting, developing and retaining the best people.
In addition, 500 kitchen and bathroom sales people were given extensive specialist training in kitchen planning, interior design and online design to enable them to give the best advice to customers.
At Castorama in France, more than 1,000 sales staff were given product knowledge training on key ranges.
Specialist training is particularly important in Kingfishers Asian businesses as knowledge of home improvement among consumers is lower.
During the year, staff training in B&Q China averaged 48 hours per person.
Kingfisher operates a variety of management training programmes across the Group.
These include B&Qs Fast Track management development programme in the UK and the Management Academy for its best managers.
Exciting career opportunities Kingfisher actively promotes people to new positions from within, enabling employees to work their way up.
This can mean opportunities to work in a number of operating companies and work abroad.
This experience is invaluable to the individual and helps Kingfisher share the best ideas and best working practices between operating companies.
Senior examples of this include Patrick Langlade, Chief Executive of Brico Dpt in France, who started as a Castorama store manager in 1984.
Another example is Steve Gilman, now Chief Executive of B&Q Asia, who started in the UK as a store manager more than 25 years ago.
In Castorama France, over 1,500 workers enjoyed promotions or transfers to new roles last year to enhance their careers.
In B&Q China, 675 staff received promotions and only eight of the 9,500 staff are European ex-patriots, meaning that local employees have every opportunity to occupy the most senior roles.
Castorama Poland started a collaboration programme with campus career advisers at Polish universities last year in order to boost quality recruitment.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 11 Valuing diversity Manager in 1990.
He joined Brico Dpt in 1998 as a Store Manager Kingfisher values age and experience.
In the UK, B&Q is and was appointed to his current role of Regional Director in 2000. well-known for its older workers policy and around a Willy says: I was lucky to meet exceptional management who quarter of B&Qs employees are aged over 50.
Trade Depot, believed in me and who, thanks to in-house training, gave me the one of the Groups newest operating companies, actively opportunity to develop.
seeks more experienced workers for its stores so they can offer expert advice to trade customers.
Staff at the first two branches had an average of 12 years trade experience each.
Mary Shi, HR Director designate for Around 45% of B&Qs 38,000 employees are female.
B&Q China, East Region There has been a flexible working policy in place for a Mary has been promoted from store roles number of years with 60% of employees working part-time to a senior management position within or flexible hours.
She was the manager of the very first B&Q China store, which opened in Responsible employer Shanghai Hutai in 1999.
She then became Kingfisher is a responsible business and actively promotes General Manager of the stores in Shuzhou its Social Responsibility programme see pages 14 and 15, and Beijing, before taking on district management roles.
Earlier this year she was appointed HR Director with policies on gender, age, disability and race.
Several operating companies run volunteering schemes through designate for the whole of the East Region.
which staff can help on local community initiatives in work Mary says: Ive been working at B&Q for nearly eight years now time.
Kingfisher also offers a number of match it schemes and Ive been able to develop my career with different roles in different across the Group through which Kingfisher matches money cities.
Its been a great experience for me.
raised by employees for designated charities.
Two-way communication is encouraged with its employees across the world as a means of developing staff Fabien Perez fide Laribal fide Boisson 31, engagement.
Most operating companies operate annual staff Senior Buyer, Trade Depot surveys to monitor key employment issues.
At B&Q UK, over Fabien joined Kingfishers new Trade Depot 29,000 people took part in the most recent Employee business last year after three years in Engagement survey which is carried out every six months.
buying roles at Brico Dpt in France.
The move has enabled the Trade Depot team to learn valuable lessons from Brico Dpt, on which the UK format is based.
Trade Depot has used some of its French counterparts suppliers and merchandising ideas, as well as basing Ian Strickland 39, Director of Format, its simple, honest, local philosophy on that of Brico Dpt.
B&Q UK Fabien says: This new assignment is providing further Ian was recently appointed Director of international experience for me and giving me a great opportunity to Format at B&Q in the UK, working on develop technically.
It allows me to work in a foreign language and to developing the next generation of B&Q gain exposure to working and living in a different culture.
This followed six years exciting challenge to help build a new business for Kingfisher.
in China where he was Managing Director of B&Q China and then Project Development Director for the whole of the Asia region.
Poonam Bhavani 65, Customer Adviser, In his new role, Ian is able to use his experience in China, where the B&Q UK stores are highly adapted for project initiator customers.
Poonam has worked as a part-time checkout Ian says: Working within our international businesses has been operator at the B&Q store in Ilford since a tremendous experience.
Markets are very different globally and a 1987, after her children went to school.
one-size-fits-all approach is never the ultimate solution.
It has helped She is now a grandmother and has recently me think more about what is right for our customers and to seek a reduced her hours so that she can look after solution for their culture and way of life.
She says: I like meeting people and talking to customers.
I also enjoy working within a team environment.
Willy Tintin 43, Regional Director, The change to the mini-Warehouse format in 2004 has been a great Brico Dpt experience and working on the new EPOS till system has helped keep Willy has worked for both of Kingfishers me up-to-date with modern technology.
Working alongside my team French businesses, Castorama and Brico members has kept me feeling young and Im happy to be part of a Dpt in a career spanning 25 years.
He quality team delivering great customer service.
has enjoyed regular promotions in both businesses.
He joined Castorama in 1981 as a Sales Attendant and became a Store
