Responsible business Business review AGE VERIFICATION CHECKS MADE IN 3,000 DECEMBER 2006 AVERAGE PERCENTAGE OF REPORTABLE INCIDENTS 0.07% PER EMPLOYEE IN 2006 OF EMPLOYEES HAVE WORKED FOR 10 YEARS 20% OR MORE AT LADBROKES EMPLOYEES TRAINED AT THE LADBROKES, 3 200 ACADEMY IN 2006 OF LIGHT FITTINGS IN OUR BETTING OUTLETS 80% ARE ENERGY EFFICIENT RAISED BY THE LADBROKES IN THE COMMUNITY 2.3m CHARITABLE TRUST OF OUR STAFF ARE TRAINED IN DEALING WITH 100% PROBLEM GAMBLING THE YEAR THAT RAIN FOREST ALLIANCE COFFEE WILL BE 2007 AVAILABLE IN ALL OUR SHOPS OF OUR APPROVED PRINT SUPPLIERS HAVE A WASTE 100% RECYCLING POLICY 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Responsible business Business review New Ladbrokes is committed to being at Follow the G the forefront of our industry when it comes regula is invo to responsible business practice.
Inves We d of ou loyal w Ladbrokes has a track As one of the worlds leading betting and gaming Supporting industry bodies record of demonstrating individ companies, Ladbrokes supports the Association To meet our social responsibilities, Ladbrokes has a strong commitment betwe of British Bookmakers ABB and the Remote been instrumental in helping establish social-impact to social responsibility are fe Gambling Association RGA in establishing , funding existing bodies and leading the and over the years, ethnic has taken a lead role wide social responsibility standards.
We believe that industry in developing and adopting codes of practice enjoy in promoting policy and we are taking all necessary steps to ensure that in our and staff programmes.
Many initiatives that began practice in this regard.
result business there is the correct balance between social with Ladbrokes have now been adopted by the Inves responsibility and commercial success.
industry as a whole, such as the social responsibility Paul Bellringer OBE, were code of practice for licensed betting offices.
advisor to Government, regulators and the Responsible gambling gambling industry on The L For most people, gambling is an enjoyable and We are founding members of the Responsibility in social responsibility.
However, for very few Gambling Trust RIGT, the Independent Betting and contin others gambling can become a serious behavioural Arbitration Service IBAS, and through RIGT support devel problem.
As a company that earns its living through GamCare and the Gordon House Association.
throu betting, Ladbrokes has a responsibility to help tackle emplo problem gambling, understand its causes, promote its Ladbrokes has a long relationship with GamCare treatment and train staff to recognise the symptoms in which was set up to promote responsible attitudes Our h potential customers.
We developed our front-line to gambling.
We were the first betting company no fat training programmes with the help of GamCare and to fund the new charity in 1996 and have continued incide over the past two years we have trained 100 per cent to support GamCare since then.
0.07 of our employees in responsible gambling practice.
previo Furthermore, we have an ongoing commitment Age verification UK av to keep staff fully up to date in this area.
All new Protecting the young is a key aspect of our joiners have responsible gambling included in their responsible gambling policies and we rigorously Empl induction programme.
enforce the 18 year age limit through age checks supp both on and offline and comprehensive staff training.
a foru Self-exclusion To this end, Ladbrokes became a founding member mana We make it as easy as possible for our customers of Citizencard, the national proof of age scheme for encou to self-exclude both in our shops and online.
com was You p All of our FOBTs carry advice on how to bet the first eGaming website to display the interactive comm responsibly and we have participated in the Staying AgeCheck logo, Citizencards electronic age in Control campaign in association with GamCare.
To illustrate our commitment we made over 3,000 verification checks during December 2006 alone.
1 Health Employee age distribution Gender breakdown of our employees Repo as at 31 December 2006 as at 31 December 2006 % 1.2 1.0 18-20 0.8 21-30 0.6 31-40 41-50 Females 0.4 51-60 Males 0.2 60 0.0 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 28 New regulatory framework We operate a flexible working policy and have a Following the ratification of the Gambling Act 2005, number of home workers, term-time only employees, the Gambling Commission has been formulating new those who work a compressed working week, as regulation for the UK gambling industry and Ladbrokes well as job-share and part-time roles.
Ladbrokes also is involved in the resultant consultation process.
undertakes a wide range of welfare initiatives each year to ensure employees are supported at times Investors in our people of stress or difficulty, including providing a Hospital We depend on the energy, enthusiasm and talent Savings Scheme, mymoneypal an online financial of our staff and are pleased to have an extremely advice package, stress management training and loyal workforce.
We employ a diverse range of valued a post-incident support team.
individuals: approximately 60 per cent are aged between 30 and 65, over 60 per cent of our employees Looking after our customers are female and approximately 11 per cent are from Ladbrokes internal code of customer service, Serious ethnic minorities.
We endeavour to provide an about Service, remains an example of excellence and enjoyable and rewarding place to work and as a the internal WOW!
Awards for customer service result, a number of our divisions have received continues to be supported.
Ladbrokes joined the Investors in People IIP recognition since 1998.
We Institute of Customer Service ICS in 2003 and so were awarded the IIP Corporate Recognition in 2005. far, more than 32 Area Managers and 58 Supervisors have achieved an ICS award.
In October, we joined The Ladbrokes Academy, our in-house career over 1,000 companies across the UK and Ireland development resource which was set up in 2005 to celebrate National Customer Service Week.
continues to grow and provides a wide range of development tools and training for employees Each year we carry out a mystery shopper campaign throughout the business.
In 2006, over 3,200 which, together with other Serious about Service employees received training through our Academy.
initiatives, helps focus service improvements across the business.
Our national average scores have Our health and safety record in 2006 was good, with fluctuated around the 80 per cent mark over the no fatalities or major injuries.
The number of reportable past three years, with some of our best performers incidents per employee across the UK averaged achieving over 90 per cent.
0.07 per cent in 2006, which was down from the previous year.
This is significantly lower than the 1 UK average of 1.05 per cent for the retail sector.
Employee relations and communications are supported by the elected staff councils, which provide a forum for discussion between employees and senior management.
Staff feedback and suggestions are encouraged through our Speak Up and Ideas from You programmes, which complement other communications initiatives across the business.
1 Health & Safety Executive Research Report 386.
Reportable incidents per employee % 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 Ladbrokes 2005 0.4 Ladbrokes 2006 0.2 UK Average Retail Sector 1994-2005 0.0 Over three-day absences 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Responsible business Business review continued Suppliers Respecting the environment Ladbrokes supplier strategy applies to all areas of the Since most of our activities are carried out electronically business and aims to ensure that spend is directed and are office or shop based, Ladbrokes does not through partner organisations who demonstrate have a major impact on the environment.
However, shared commitment to our corporate and social we are nevertheless committed to improving our goals.
Preferred supplier status is developed with environmental performance.
We recognise that this selected partners in areas that are critical to the improvement can be achieved by carefully managing continuity and success of our domestic and overseas energy and resource consumption, waste production, operations.
We currently have preferred relationships the purchasing of goods and services and business with over 20 suppliers in areas as diverse as telecoms, travel.
For example, we have established a best In 2006, we chose two key charities for the printing, staff recruitment and property maintenance.
practice energy figure for our retail shops which we focus of our 300,000 target on an annual basis, we have removed over Christmas fundraising Our suppliers are predominantly UK or EU based.
50,000 paper invoices from our payment cycle, and initiative Help the Aged Our supply base ranges from local to global our main print suppliers have a 100 per cent waste and Dreams Come True businesses providing goods and services across recycling policy and zero environmental impact from To kick-start the activity, Ladbrokes donated an our organisation.
additional 50,000 to each of them.
As members of GoodCorporation, we work with External recognition our leading suppliers to promote wider membership.
Ladbrokes continues to be a member of FTSE4Good We regularly audit the commitment to corporate and and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI.
social responsibility of all our supplier partners and We are currently second in our class in both DJSI their owners, as well as the environmental impact World & DJSI STOXX indices.
During 2006, we were of their operations.
also recognised by The Sunday Times as one of the top 100 Companies that Count, which is awarded Supporting our communities to high performers in the annual Business in the The Ladbrokes betting shop is typically at the heart Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
We came of the communities where we operate.
To help support second in our sector in the CR Index and 56th overall.
and protect these areas we have partnered with Crimestoppers a UK charity focusing on reducing GoodCorporation has accredited Ladbrokes for crime.
A leaflet detailing Crimestoppers schemes high standards of corporate social responsibility is available in every Ladbrokes shop across the UK.
The GoodCorporation standard covers practices towards employees, suppliers Ladbrokes in the Community Charitable Trust and customers, as well as community and continues to grow and has become a successful environmental impacts.
charitable body, well-supported by Ladbrokes employees.
Our employees helped raise over Full Responsible Business Report 2.3 million for good causes across the UK.
In addition For full details of our responsible business policies to these national charities, staff are encouraged to and to read our 2006 Responsible Business support charities of their choice.
During 2006 this Report please visit Ladbrokes corporate website, included support for Children in Need, Macmillan www.
Further information on our Cancer Support, Sue Ryder Care, the RNLI, approach to responsible business is also included numerous local hospices and health-related in the Directors Report on page 40 of this and victim support charities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 Ladbrokes and the WOW!
Awards In 2004 we recognised that the national WOW!
Awards concept to include Head Office, whereby staff can process gave us an opportunity to introduce a culture nominate each other for an award via our intranet.
of positive recognition for our staff.
Ladbrokes has been recognised as the first We created a unique WOW!
nomination card business to fully adopt the WOW!
Awards in its to encourage our customers to highlight particular stores and has numerous success stories to tell, examples of good service, and in the first year we including the fact that Ladbrokes staff have been received 436 nominations.
We have supported this finalists for the national WOW!
Award for Service scheme ever since and have now extended the Excellence for the last three years running.
Ladbrokes Academy Ladbrokes competes in a rapidly growing and look to progress talented individuals along their career technology driven international marketplace.
They include Retail management programmes, challenge is to make sure that our employees have focused at the area manager and district supervisor the necessary skills to deal with the complexities levels, and the Junior Trader scheme supporting of such an environment and that they find the right growth in markets and betting products.
career within Ladbrokes to suit their talents and aspirations.
In recognition of this, Ladbrokes invests Ladbrokes is also very aware of the need to provide heavily in the training and development of its the companys future senior executives.
Set up as employees and spends over 750,000 on this The Ladbrokes Leaders Programme, the emphasis area each year.
is very much on personal development.
Each employee on the programme is extensively profiled The Ladbrokes Academy was launched in 2003 and involved in determining their development to bring together all of our training initiatives.
The options, drawing on the resources offered by the Academy site not only hosts a number of essential UK and Europes leading business schools and training initiatives but also contains example supported by executive coaching.
In this way, talented personal development plans and questionnaires employees at all levels are encouraged to play a vital that enable users to make informed decisions part in taking the company forward into the future.
about their potential career path.
Many targeted development programmes exist within the Academy.
They focus on expanding the skills and experience of the whole workforce and Staff nominated by our customers for WOW!
