Corporate social responsibility for the year to 31 December 2006 The Laird Group PLC, its Divisions and businesses the Group involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
During the year the Companys membership of the FTSE4Good UK Index, a financial index series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, was renewed.
Product Stewardship Lairds aim is to improve the quality of life for people around the world through the provision of innovative, value-added products that advance performance and protection across the electronics and the residential and home improvement markets.
As a forward-thinking Group, Laird recognises the need to behave as a good corporate citizen and pursue  design and manufacturing practices, via various strategies including maximising resource productivity and minimising energy intensity.
In keeping with this strategy Laird Technologies is proactively engineering the next generation of EMI shielding technology.
In 2006 the business introduced a series of , Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHS-compliant products for a wide range of applications, for example its Beryllium-free Recyclable Clean Copper gaskets alleviate any environmental, safety and segregation concerns associated with the traditional use and recycling of Beryllium-based copper alloys, and its patent-pending EcoGreen fabric-over-foam gaskets offer a halogen-free option with uncompromised EMI shielding effectiveness.
Business Ethics The Laird Group PLC believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in todays business world and therefore places high priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
The Group commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all dealings on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness.
The Group applies these same standards to all business dealings with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Groups policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the relevant competition laws of each country in which it operates.
A copy of the Business Ethics and Conduct Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Health and Safety The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and the Group maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and promote and develop good health, safety and environmental practices.
The Laird Risk Management Group RMG, chaired by an executive director, currently Mr Rapp, and with members drawn from the Groups businesses examines risks within the operations and in particular oversees health, safety and environmental matters.
The RMG, which met four times during 2006, reports to the Board.
During the year comprehensive health, safety and environmental audits were carried out at all recently acquired Group businesses and update audits were conducted at all other major Group facilities.
The results of the health, safety and environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMG.
Health, safety and environmental training is provided, and reinforced via refresher courses where necessary, to designated employees and focuses on the perceived risk within each business.
Although each business has its own Health and Safety Committee which has representatives from management and employees it is recognised that there are benefits of sharing knowledge within the Group and in the UK a Health and Safety Forum which has representatives from each business met three times during 2006.
Issues discussed during the year included new Health & Safety regulations, work related road safety and energy and water conservation.
2006 Health & Safety achievements  Appointment of a full-time Group Environmental Health & Safety Manager to conduct EHS Risk Audits, produce site improvement action plans monitor follow up and facilitate the implementation of the ISO 14001 standard and oversee the integration of OHSAS 18001 across 14001 registered sites.
 UK-based ERA Products Limited recorded a 33% year on year reduction in accident rates per 100 employees in 2006.
 Amesbury Textiles in the USA received a Gold Certificate of Safety Achievement from the North Carolina Department of Labor.
 Laird Technologies Pennsylvania, US facility reduced workplace accidents from.
Data for Group accident rates has historically been captured and monitored on an individual facility basis.
However, because of different statutory reporting requirements in the different countries in which the Group operates, the data has not been collated on a Group-wide consistent basis.
A uniform reporting requirement has now been established, in addition to the statutory requirements, and aggregate Group accident rates per 100 employees will be provided in the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Laird Group PLC 29 Corporate social responsibility continued for the year to 31 December 2006 Environmental The Group is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy working environments.
Detailed policies are developed and implemented by the operating divisions and their subsidiary businesses to reflect their specific trading activities and the associated risks.
The Groups minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water and raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents are prevented through comprehensive training.
2006 was another year of progress in overall performance in the areas of health, safety and environmental management, as evidenced by the continuation of the Groups ISO 14001 accreditation programme: all of the Groups manufacturing facilities are now accredited, or re-certified to the 2004 version of, the standard, with the exception of certain recent acquisitions, which are targeted to achieve accreditation during 2007.
This is in addition to the majority of the Groups main manufacturing facilities being ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 certified.
Ten ISO 14001 accredited manufacturing sites successfully integrated the OHSAS 18001 specification, providing an integrated Health, Safety & Environmental management system.
The Group aims to complete this integration across the remaining ISO 14001 registered sites in 2007.
The Group undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of its manufacturing sites.
The formalisation of environmental management systems via the certified Environmental and Health and Safety standards will promote continuous improvement and allow consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of natural resources.
The Groups performance in these areas continued to improve in 2006 with reductions in both greenhouse gas emissions and levels of waste to landfill.
Group CO2 emissions were cut by 20% to 68,565 total kilograms per 1m of Group sales and waste to landfill was reduced 16% to 5,261 kilograms total waste to landfill per 1m of Group sales.
2006 Environmental initiatives  UK-based Linear Limited achieved a significant reduction in water usage through the implementation of an ISO 14001-driven action plan.
Through usage monitoring, the installation of flushing systems and awareness training for employees, the business reduced water usage from 930 cubic metres in 2005 to 309 cubic metres in 2006.
 Amesbury Foam-Tite in Massachusetts, US sought to lessen the environmental impact of its packaging by redesigning the cartons to use less cardboard and include 50% recycled material.
The redesign also eliminated the use of staples, thus facilitating recycling by the recipient customer.
 Laird Technologies facility in Penang, Malaysia realised a cost saving of $56,000 in 2006 through the implementation of a recycling plan for all plastic trays and cartons used on-site.
 Laird Technologies facility in Shanghai, China commenced an ISO 14001 programme of electricity usage reduction.
By following initiatives including usage monitoring, the shutting down of idle equipment, more efficient use of office air-conditioning and raising employee awareness through training and signage, the business realised a cost saving of $29,000.
 Laird Technologies invested more than $300,000 to boost its recycling of process water streams at its Shenzhen, China plant.
The new treatment facility will, once fully operational in the third quarter of 2007, increase internal water recycling to 60%, up from the current level of 20%, significantly reducing the plants need for fresh water and halving its levels of liquid waste.
A copy of the Groups Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
30 The Laird Group PLC Charitable Donations and Community Affairs The well-being of the communities in which the Group operates is important to its long term development and success.
During the year the Group gave 15,000 to national and local charities 2005, 49,000.
The Group supported a number of large UK charities for example, Guide Dogs for the Blind, Children in Need and When You Wish Upon a Star.
The subsidiaries of the Group, many of which are long-established in their communities, support a variety of local initiatives.
In 2006 the Group published two editions of its employee newsletter, Insight, which is available to all Group employees via email and intranet sites.
The newsletters feature articles on charity and community involvement, employee achievements and key events within the Group.
2006 Charitable and Community initiatives  Participation in an annual raffle and silent auction in which employees put together auction baskets with proceeds donated to the United Way charity in the US.
 Donations including food, toys, clothing and holiday gifts to local orphanages in California and Pennsylvania, US and Penang, Malaysia and donation of funds to a charitable organisation providing nursing care and support for children and the elderly in Rosenheim, Germany.
 Support by several Group companies of a variety of local sports teams through the provision of team sponsorships, kit and equipment donations and other fund-raising events.
 The Laird Group PLC Head Offices sponsored Guide Dog, Hero, graduated from training and was placed with a sight-impaired person.
Head Office is continuing its commitment to the charity Guide Dogs for the Blind through the sponsorship of another trainee dog in 2007.
 Participation in quarterly blood donation drives in the US for use in the local area and support of local health services for disadvantaged families.
 Partnership programme with a sheltered workshop whereby a management mentoring system allows business practice to be applied to the workshops drinks cans recycling efforts.
A tiered reward system generates quarterly proceeds that are donated by the workshop to local and international hunger relief organisations including Heifer International.
 An initiative was launched at a UK business to encourage employees to make charitable donations instead of sending Christmas cards to colleagues.
