Corporate social responsibility LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate social responsibility statement continued to make a positive contribution to society best practice.
We aim to continue to System EMS, which operates to an by encouraging staff to support and manage the impact of our operations accredited standard to support the participate in the communities in which and develop initiatives to improve our achievement of responsible management we operate.
in our business and environmental goals.
For example, LogicaCMG in the In 2005, we commissioned an The LogicaCMG EMS develops Netherlands has a social and community independent report on our emissions in management programmes to reduce investment programme called Bloom.
This the UK to quantify the extent of the impact.
pollution, conserve resources and gauge programme is operated in partnership with The majority of LogicaCMG UKs emissions performance results in its everyday Unicef, with the theme of developing people originate from the use of electricity, operations, then applies these standards in order to combat poverty.
The programme gas and water supply, business travel to its strategic partnerships.
We work with involves the organisation of staff fundraising transport and waste.
partners nationwide to overcome barriers to events and the free delivery of manpower In 2006, we took the next step and environmental improvement and constantly and ICT knowledge to projects in initiated an environmental campaign seek to demonstrate environmental developing countries.
Fundraising events entitled Stamp down our Carbon acceptability to our stakeholders.
have included a sponsored run, a tennis Footprint.
The approach adopted has LogicaCMG has met the FTSE Groups tournament and a world championship been to pilot schemes in individual corporate responsibility criteria and is a football party and have already resulted in business units first and then use the constituent company in the FTSE4Good contributions amounting to 20,000 for lessons learned to scale up across the Index Series.
Created by the FTSE Group, Unicef.
This funding has meant that about UK.
The initiatives, which will continue the global index company, the FTSE4Good 700 children in developing countries will to be fully rolled out across the UK in 2007, Index Series is designed to identify have the opportunity to go to school.
The follow the 3 Rs closely and include: companies that meet globally recognised Bloom programme is expected to run for at corporate responsibility standards.
least a further three years in its current form.
Reduce: Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series are working towards environmental raising awareness through targeted 1.5 Environment sustainability, developing positive communications and seminars to help The company believes that, by their nature, relationships with stakeholders and our staff, and their families and friends, the groups operations have a minimal up-holding and supporting universal reduce energy use at home, as well impact on the environment.
as at work we acknowledge that there are inevitable improved powering down of our facilities environmental impacts associated with 2.
Our employees overnight and at weekends daily operations.
We aim to minimise encouraging reduced business travel any harmful effects and consider the 2.1 Releasing potential and use of conferencing technology development and implementation of The merging of LogicaCMG, Unilog and upgrading of our of ce equipment to environmental standards to achieve most recently WM-data brings together fewer and more energy-ef cient devices.
this to be of great importance.
As such, three businesses, each of which recognised we strongly encourage the 3 Rs: Re-use: that their reputation and their ability to successfully deliver to customers was reduce replacing, where possible, the founded on the quality of their people.
re-use reliance on disposable items with The values espoused by each business recycle.
In the course of our operations we seek Recycle: During 2006, signi cant steps were taken to identify opportunities to reduce to capitalise upon these strong legacies switching to more sustainable sources consumption of energy, water and other and to create a company with one vision, of electricity to power our of ces natural resources.
We also strive to re-use one set of values and one set of systems improving our recycling facilities.
and recycle where possible and dispose and processes.
of non-recyclable items responsibly, thereby Already in 2006, we made savings of over minimising our impact on the environment.
2,500 tonnes of carbon dioxide through The LogicaCMG Way is based upon Our environmental policy is the switching to more carbon friendly a number of important principles: communicated on the companys website electricity suppliers, as well as unit-led openness, communication and intranet, and we have allocated pilot schemes that reduced business travel and involvement management resources to implement emissions by over 30%, and increased mutual respect, fairness and meritocracy the policy across the group.
leadership that by adopting simple, environmentally As we work to ensure that our operations professionalism and quality friendly initiatives, the company will raise will result in a cleaner environment, we recruiting the best people and releasing awareness amongst stakeholders and intend to maintain the continual improvement their potential the wider community.
of our products, processes and services.
loyalty The company regularly reviews its An important expression of this client focus and teamwork.
environmental policy to ensure that commitment is the development of the it re ects changes in regulations and LogicaCMG Environmental Management 44 The integration of Unilog and the relaunch business management to talk frequently personal development, training of the LogicaCMG brand in the market to employees, without the need to bring and succession planning to support has provided an ideal opportunity to them together in one place.
In particular, personal growth communicate our principles and strategy as a way of communicating on business an annual review of performance throughout the organisation as well as performance, priorities and changes.
that drives decisions about pay being a focal point of communications This approach also provides an important and career progression.
with our new colleagues in Unilog.
Similar and direct way for employees to ask focus will be given to extending these questions and provide feedback to 2.4 Health and safety messages into WM-data in 2007. senior management.
We aim to ensure a safe and healthy Developing our capability, delivering We value feedback and suggestions from working environment for all our employees, value to our customers on a global basis employees.
Each year we run an on-line outside contractors and visitors, not only and securing long-term pro table growth employee survey in multiple languages, on LogicaCMG premises, but also for those is founded on releasing the potential of as a means of gathering feedback from staff and contractors working on client sites.
Each of the businesses employees on what it is like to work for The company aims to comply with all already had in place established, effective LogicaCMG and to assist in identifying relevant local legislation or regulations, academies that delivered high-quality areas for further improvement.
Following and best practice guidelines recommended programmes in areas such as leadership the acquisitions of Unilog and WM-data, we by national health and safety authorities.
and technical and personal skills.
are re ning our employee satisfaction survey We also liaise with staff regarding our We are building on this strong foundation to ensure consistency across the group.
policies and practices so that we can to create a world-class corporate We will report on this measure in 2007. continue to maintain a healthy, safe university for personal and professional We also recognise the value of formal and enjoyable environment.
It will link the transfer, communications through employee Due to increasing global security exchange and creation of knowledge consultation committees and works concerns, we continue to upgrade our to our strategic corporate objectives councils.
The LogicaCMG European Works policies to ensure our people are able and thus be the power behind ongoing Council, with elected representatives, to operate safely in all countries.
Where innovation of LogicaCMG products, is a forum for dialogue with employees appropriate, employees have access to services and processes globally.
At a country level, several local online information regarding international We are currently bringing the committees or councils exist to exchange safety and security provided by an expert universities together, streamlining the information, increase understanding, security company.
This security company various offerings and creating new enhance decision-making and ensure is also used to vet travel arrangements programmes: for example a mini-MBA the effective implementation of changes.
and provide safeguards as required.
As well programme is being introduced to as this, guidance issued by organisations support group leadership development.
2.3 A meritocracy such as the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Programmes exist across a range of The group embraces diversity.
Employees Of ce is taken into account.
technical, delivery and personal skill areas of both genders, from different nations, delivered by both traditional classroom cultures, ethnic groups, generations and 3.
We have plans backgrounds contribute their skills and Our staff have always been generous in to extend our existing relationships with different perspectives to improving our their support for charitable causes.
The renowned business schools and to align solutions and delivering to our customers.
company supports give as you earn programmes with our core performance It is a cornerstone of our ethos that schemes to facilitate financial donations management system in support of LogicaCMG is a meritocracy, where all by staff via the payroll.
In addition, the achieving worldwide standards employees are recognised and rewarded company encourages staff to support and providing accreditation.
on the basis of their performance, effort, charities and participate in local charitable contribution and achievements.
events and, where possible, donates 2.2 Communications and The companys performance surplus computers to local good causes.
employee satisfaction management and personal development When making charitable donations, the LogicaCMG recognises that, as a rapidly processes are being rolled out through companys aim is to develop partnerships changing, knowledge-based business, the extended group.
They are based with national charities and noncommunication is a critical ingredient on the following principles: governmental organisations in the countries for success.
We place emphasis on both in which it operates.
For example in response that employees have a clear formal and informal communication.
to the tsunami disaster which struck Asia understanding of how they contribute The manager has a key role to play in on 26 December 2004, the company to the business and have clear personal communication.
Managers are accessible, established the Tsunami Support Fund with objectives, aligned to the business encourage collaboration and the a donation of 100,000 from the company strategy and objectives development of ideas that contribute and further contributions from staff.
The career pathways that identify key to business performance and continuous purpose of the Fund was to raise money capabilities and behaviours at different improvement.
for medium and long-term projects relating competency levels across core In addition to face-to-face meetings, to the education of affected children career paths we use Net meetings which allow in that region.
45 Governance Corporate social responsibility LogicaCMG Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate social responsibility statement continued In the UK the company also implemented an innovative scheme to bene t two of the countrys largest child support charities, the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children NSPCC and Children First.
As part of this scheme we pay the two organisations a proportion of the receipts received from all of our clients who signed up to our prompt payment plan.
The money raised from this prompt payment scheme is used for a variety of programmes across the two charities.
These include young peoples centres, family support services and treatment and therapeutic services, which are core areas of both charities programmes.
In future we propose applying monies collected in this way across these three services, based on where our staff prefer to spend the money.
Total UK charitable donations in 2006 were 45,000.
We believe that being active in the wider community is an essential part of corporate responsibility and, as such, is an essential element of the way we run our business.
We believe our charitable involvement and social responsibility are intrinsic to the future of our people and our company.
Many staff contribute their own time to a variety of charitable activities.
The company supports and encourages such activities and has put together a voluntary database on which employees can list the charitable works in which they participate.
It is anticipated that this will prove helpful in strengthening networks across the company and enable many of the organisations we support to bene t from our wide range of contacts.
Our objective is to create a mutually supportive network which helps to add value to the various charitable organisations in which we are involved.
Political contributions Our policy is not to make any donations to political parties.
However, the UK Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Act, which came into force in February 2001, fide fines political donations and political expenditure so broadly that some of our activities may fall within the fide nitions in the legislation.
Whilst we do not intend to alter our normal activities, we will continue to seek shareholder authority when necessary for such expenditure to ensure that the requirements of the Act are met.
