LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company believes that by working closely We welcome initiatives to enhance the communities in which it operates.
Dispersal with all its stakeholders in minimising the impact experience of all users of busy town and city policies developed in conjunction with local of its activities on the communities in which it centres and actively participate in this by the use police forces, relevant authorities and operates and by helping to protect that of CCTV and regular liaison with police and neighbours are a very effective way of environment, it will not only satisfy the demands council officials.
We are fully supportive of the minimising the primary risks associated with late of modern corporate life, but will also improve Governments Alcohol Harm Reduction night entertainment.
These policies include the its own business methods and deliver the Strategy and all other initiatives that encourage provision of street marshals, DJ announcements highest levels of corporate governance.
The safe and sensible drinking.
encouraging gradual dispersal, strict adherence Company has the most experienced operational to licensing conditions, litter patrols, assistance management in the leisure sector, who are We believe that the issue of alcohol abuse needs with obtaining taxis for single women and the dedicated to the safety and welfare of their staff to be considered in a broader context, which graduated reduction of noise levels in the venue.
includes all those involved in the leisure sector, the drinks manufacturers and suppliers, other sellers of UNDERAGE DRINKING RESPONSIBLE RETAILING alcohol such as supermarkets and off-licences, Underage drinking remains a problem that all The sector within which the Company operates Government agencies, relevant support agencies licensed premises face on a regular basis.
In a has been at the forefront of national publicity and the consumers of alcohol themselves.
bid to exclude underage drinkers from its relating to binge or antisocial drinking and premises, the Company operates various resultant behavioural issues.
In preparation for the To promote responsible drinking and to lessen schemes.
The national Challenge 21 scheme is implementation of the Licensing Act 2003 in the impact of any antisocial behaviour on the adopted across the estate, challenging customers 2005, the Company produced a five point plan communities in which it operates, the Company to prove their age if they appear under 21.
If identifying those factors it felt were key to has implemented the following initiatives: identification presented as proof of age appears contributing to reducing antisocial drinking, safer to have been tampered with, the ID is venues and safer town and city centres.
This planany nominated driver in a group of three or confiscated and the police are called, often was forwarded to every local authority and more customers receiving complimentary soft issuing 80 on-the-spot fines.
The Company corresponding police force in the areas in which drinks: takes its responsibilities in this area very seriously the Company operates.
The plan outlined and offers the opportunity for young adults, removing irresponsible promotions and all dispersal policies, minimum pricing conditions, over the age of 13 and under 18, to experience you can drink offers: capacity conditions, risk assessment, dancing dancing and entertainment in its venues in a establishing an internal minimum price for the provision and policies for managing the cumulative strictly controlled environment with no alcoholic sale of an alcoholic drink: effect of licensed venues in the affected towns.
each venue tariff board being reviewed and many cases, the strategies outlined in these plans certain soft drinks prices being reduced: are now part of the Companys commitment to HEALTH AND SAFETY the towns and cities where its venues are locatedHealth and safety standards are maintained and free drinking water: and embedded in its operational licences.
promoted through an active in-house team who the availability of hot food and drinks, regularly carry out health and safety audits and particularly during evening trading: In conjunction with Bars Entertaining Dancing review and develop policies and procedures to requiring unit managers to become active Association BEDA, the representative body of ensure the Company meets all relevant safety members of any local Pubwatch schemes: the late night industry, we have lobbied the regulation requirements and positions itself signage reminding customers of the stringent Government in relation to minimum pricing of proactively for changes to the regulatory security measures in place and requesting alcoholic drinks in all outlets licensed for the sale environment.
Staff receive specifically designed them to leave the area quietly: and of alcohol, including retail outlets, such as training courses in relation to food safety, noise, supermarkets.
Various local authorities and policefirst aid and the responsible sale of alcohol security measures to allow incidents of authorities have supported this proposition but among others and general housekeeping antisocial behaviour to be recorded and with little encouragement from the Government standards have improved since the introduction passed to the police, as appropriate.
or other leisure industry organisations.
We will of the Lite Patrol Scanner System.
This reporting continue to lobby Government for a consistent system monitors and highlights risks within each The Company employs several other initiatives and proportionate response to the issues arising unit i. e. a spillage or broken glass and prompts to ensure the safety of its customers and to from the sale of alcohol generally.
appropriate and timely remedial action to be mitigate the impact of its business on the LUMINAR plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 19 taken by relevant unit personnel.
develop or refurbish new premises without ato improve fuel consumption levels and Search policies also operate in all of the smoking area.
Where it is not possible to reduce CO emissions, the Company has 2 Companys venues, with door supervisors accommodate smokers inside a venue, introduced an all diesel policy for all Company carrying out random searches of customers and alternative initiatives will be introduced such as cars: and their belongings to prevent weapons being taken the smoking wristband system currently in use where possible, the use of public transport, inside the venues.
in Scotland, allowing customers exit and re-entry telephones, video conferencing and homeinto units.
working are encouraged in an effort to reduce DRUG AWARENESS the number of miles travelled.
Recent press coverage has highlighted the To improve the working environment, the dangers of drink spiking and misuse of drugs Company follows best practice guidelines from CHARITY remains an issue in the late night sector.
The the Government and ensures its premises meet The Company remains committed to the Company has long-standing policies for mitigating all statutory guidelines in relation to the standard ECHO Trust, a childrens charity founded by the of airflow and air extraction in its premises.
The the risks of this difficult issue.
A zero tolerance Company in 2002, the work of which is referred Company ensures that its premises possess air policy is in place in all of the Companys venues to in the Directors Report.
The Trust ensures circulation and handling equipment to the and any person found to be using or handling the availability of cash for good causes across prevailing standards at the time of their drugs will have those drugs confiscated and be the country and within the communities in installation.
All new and refurbished premises reported to the police.
All of the Companys which it operates.
During the year, a total of comply with CIBSE design guidelines, BSI British venues benefit from extensive CCTV systems, 403,079 was donated to the Trust by our Standard 5720 and technical standards for places with door supervisors carrying out regular checks customers and staff as a result of charity of entertainment published by the District of all areas, including public toilets.
Comprehensive search policies are employed in Following the Asian Pacific Tsunami on Boxing all units and management actively promote the Day 2004, the trustees felt it should make a ENVIRONMENTAL sale of spikeys within their venues a device donation to a specific project in that area.
The The Companys environmental strategy is specifically designed to prevent drink tampering.
ECHO Trust donated 100,000 to Children On designed to minimise the impact of its business the Edge to build a child friendly and safe space on the communities in which it operates and it An independent company is also employed to in Banda Aceh, Indonesia.
is committed to growing its business in an make unscheduled visits across the estate and environmentally friendly manner.
The Company trained dogs are used to search for drugs.
The is committed to minimising any adverse effects Company ensures that all staff are fully trained in the Companys activities have on the recognising drug use and dealing with those environment and, by establishing frameworks by suffering from the effects of drug misuse.
Many which these impacts can be identified and of the Companys larger venues have trained measured, it hopes to manage and reduce any paramedics available.
Examples of the measures it takes to protect and enhance the environment are: SMOKING The Company believes its customers should approximately 80% of the waste produced by have the right to decide whether or not they the Company is glass and progress has been smoke but does not believe others should be made in diverting substantial amounts of this affected by those deciding to do so.
All glass away from landfill: refurbished or newly developed venues in the all cooking oils used in food operations are Companys estate incorporate external smoking recycled and procedures are in place to areas and the Company was therefore well increase the amount of card and paper placed to deal with the recent smoking ban recycling: introduced in Scotland in March 2006.
In the Company carefully monitors energy usage preparation for the smoking ban being and employs initiatives such as water meters introduced to England in 2007, the Company is, and renewable energy sources to ensure where possible, developing external smoking responsible consumption: areas within its venues.
