Marks and Spencer Group plc www.
com people2006 17 Our People Last year we invested more than ever to enable our people to meet and exceed the expectations of our customers.
MEET ONE Improving our employees ability to fulfil their programme, with 56,000 completing Our OF OUR NEW roles is key to our success.
To achieve this, Service Style customer service training COACHES we needed to simplify the way we pay, train during the year.
One in six of our customer assistants has A clear structure with real opportunities been trained as a Coach, responsible for In May 2005, we introduced a new fourtraining new staff and upskilling colleagues.
point pay and career structure for customer Our 8,000 Coaches are critical in ensuring assistants, creating some of the highest product knowledge, work methods and rewards in retail and replacing a myriad of customer service are at the highest levels.
rates with clear career progression through the new roles Trainee, Qualified, Coach In head office, the Buying Academy has Jill Gadsdon is one of our and Section Co-ordinator.
These changes trained 900 staff in buying and Coaches at the Finsbury mean we can now better recruit and retain merchandising practices, achieving far Pavement store in the City talented people.
shorter lead times and increasing availability of London.
She was trained whilst managing tight markdown targets.
and accredited for the role In 2006 07, we will continue to develop the in November 2005 and has Your M&S Career Path and will also create Listening to employees since trained six of her a similar structure for Section and Store Some 1,500 people across M&S are elected colleagues at the store.
This builds on our new retail representatives on our Business asked about what Coaching management structure which ensures that Involvement Groups BIGs, our vehicle for meant to her, Jill said: The some of our most talented people manage employee communication, consultation and best thing about being a our flagships, helping these key stores involvement.
We have broadened the BIG Coach is watching people Ive trained doing a good job, perform ahead of the chain.
constitution, increased training to make it a approaching customers and more effective forum and now fund three going the extra mile to help Training to deliver full-time representatives.
Its nice to know that Last year, we worked hard to achieve my help and advice has given consistently good service in every store.
We introduced a new employee survey in them the confidence to be Although there is more to do, our customer February 2006, Your M&S, your say, which better at their jobs.
research and monthly mystery shopper allows us to compare satisfaction scores programme found significant improvements, against other leading UK companies for the following our biggest ever service training first time.
Turnover of staff, which fell by 1% during the year, is amongst the lowest in the sector.
This means that we are retaining more expertise and talent in the business.
Our store teams now have clearer responsibilities, better scheduling and have all undertaken our customer service training programme, so that they are better able to look after our customers needs.
