com  Marks and Spencer Group plc Responsible retailing For many years we have applied strict ethical standards so our customers can make responsible choices.
On fish sourcing, Greenpeace, the Marine LOOK BEHIND THE LABEL Conservation Society and the Seafood Choices Alliance named us the leading In January 2006, we launched retailer in the protection of endangered fish Look behind the label, a species.
This applies across our offer from campaign about the way our fresh fillets to fish in sandwiches and pies.
products are sourced and made.
We want our Our customers have asked us to develop customers to know about packaging that is more environmentally the lengths we go to to give friendly.
This year, we used around 1,500 them responsible and ethical tonnes of recycled plastic in our packaging choices we want them and tested in-store recycling schemes.
to know what sets us apart These efforts won us the Best Retail from our peers.
Recycling Initiative in the 2005 National The campaign covered areas Recycling Awards and the 2005 Institute of such as animal welfare, Grocery Distributors Tetra Pak We became the first major UK retailer to start selling Fairtrade, responsible fish Environmental Award.
clothing made from Fairtrade certified cotton.
sourcing, responsible use of chemicals, free-range eggs, During the year, we invested heavily in our non-GM foods, removing In a year of significant achievement, a staff.
You can read more about Our People hydrogenated fats from number of initiatives stood out.
on page 17 and also in our Corporate virtually all our foods and Social Responsibility Report which is leading the industry on salt We became the only major UK retailer to available to download from our website reduction.
sell only Fairtrade coffee, both in our 200 www.
Caf Revive coffee shops and our Food Halls.
The Fairtrade Foundation estimates We also continued to support the that this commitment will lift UK Fairtrade communities in which we operate and coffee sales by 18%.
invested a total of 9.3m, in cash and in kind, in community initiatives.
We also announced that by the end of 2006 all our tea will be Fairtrade-only.
In March, Through Marks & Start, the biggest of we also became the first major UK retailer these initiatives, we provided 2,635 people to offer a range of Fairtrade cotton t-shirts with work experience placements.
adult participants, drawn from groups such as the disabled and homeless, went on to Healthy eating is increasingly important to find work.
Our healthy foods, identified by the Eat Well sunflower, now make up Finally, we worked closely with Care 20% of our entire food catalogue.
During International and communities in Sri Lanka the year, we were the first major UK retailer to re-build 80 homes destroyed by the 2004 to commit to removing hydrogenated fats tsunami.
In addition, we helped the affected from virtually all our food and we are villagers set up their own businesses and reducing salt ahead of industry and provided them with training.
We recognise that climate change is a We take animal welfare seriously in the serious issue and have stepped up efforts manufacture of all our products.
Improved efficiencies together RSPCA recognised this when they gave with our use of greener electricity meant us their 2005 Alternative Award for Fashion that last year we produced 9% less carbon Retail for our policies on animal welfare.
Marks and Spencer Group plc www.
com yourdirectors2006 19 Your directors PAUL MYNERS LORD BURNS STUART ROSE IAN DYSON STEVEN SHARP KEVIN LOMAX JEREMY DARROCH STEVEN HOLLIDAY JACK KEENAN DAVID MICHELS LOUISE PATTEN PAUL MYNERS STEVEN SHARP JACK KEENAN CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MARKETING, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed as a non-executive director in April 2002 E-COMMERCE, STORE DESIGN AND Chairman and as Chairman in May 2004.
Paul is DEVELOPMENT Appointed in September 2001.
Jack is CEO Chairman of Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited: Appointed in November 2005.
Steven started of Grand Cru Consulting Ltd.
He was previously Guardian Media Group plc: The Low Pay Commission: his retail marketing career with the Bejam Group in Deputy CEO of Guinness UDV and a Board member and the Trustees of Tate.
He progressed to the Argyll Group and became of Diageo plc.
He is a non-executive director of director of the Bank of New York and a member of Marketing Director of Asda in 1987.
He joined the Tomkins plc, Amphora Fine Wine Fund plc and Senior the Court of Directors of the Bank of England.
Board of Debenhams in 1989, and became Group Non-Executive Director of The Body Shop International Marketing Director of the Burton Group.
Jack is Patron of Cambridge Universitys Centre LORD BURNS been Marketing Director of Booker plc and Arcadia for International Business and Management.
DEPUTY CHAIRMAN Chairman Group plc.
Terry will DAVID MICHELS become Chairman following our AGM in July 2006.
KEVIN LOMAX NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR He is Chairman of Abbey National plc and Glas Cymru SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Appointed in March 2006.
David previously Ltd Welsh Water and a non-executive director of Chairman worked with Grand Metropolitan, Hilton International Banco Santander Central Hispano SA and Pearson Appointed in September 2000.
A founding and Stakis before rejoining Hilton International in 1999 Group plc.
He was formerly Permanent Secretary to investor in Misys plc in 1979, Kevin was non-executive as Chief Executive, becoming Chief Executive of Hilton the Treasury and chaired the Parliamentary Financial Chairman from May 1980 until June 1985 when he Group plc from 2000 to 2006.
David was formerly a Services and Markets Bill Joint Committee.
became Executive Chairman, leading Misys through a non-executive director of Arcadia Group plc and is a period of significant growth.
On the appointment of a non-executive director of The British Land Company STUART ROSE non-executive Chairman in November 2005, he is now plc, easyJet plc and Strategic Hotels & Resorts.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE Chief Executive of Misys.
Stuart was Chief LOUISE PATTEN Executive of Arcadia Group plc between 2000 and JEREMY DARROCH NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 2002.
Previously he was Chief Executive of Booker plc NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed in February 2006.
He is a non-executive director of Land Appointed in February 2006.
Jeremy is Chief Non-Executive Chairman of Brixton plc, a nonSecurities plc and Chairman of the British Fashion Financial Officer at British Sky Broadcasting Plc.
He executive director of Bradford & Bingley plc and a Council.
was previously at DSG International plc Dixons Group senior adviser to Bain & Co. She began her career at plc, where he became Group Finance Director in Citibank and remained in financial services until 1993 IAN DYSON 2002.
Formerly, Jeremy was Finance Director for when she joined Bain & Co as a Partner.
She was GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Procter & Gambles European Healthcare division.
He formerly a non-executive director of Hilton Group plc, Appointed in June 2005.
Ian was formerly is a member of the 100 Group of Finance Directors.
GUS plc and Somerfield plc.
Finance Director of The Rank Group plc and previously Group Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc, prior to STEVEN HOLLIDAY Independent which he was Finance Director of Le Meridien Hotels a NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Audit Committee division of Forte plc.
He has also been a partner of Appointed in July 2004.
Steve is Group Remuneration Committee Arthur Andersen.
Ian was a non-executive director of Deputy CEO of National Grid plc, where he will Nomination Committee Misys plc until September 2005. become Group CEO by the end of 2006.
He was formerly an executive director of British Borneo Oil and Gas.
Previously, he spent 19 years with the Kevin Lomax, Senior Independent Director, is Exxon Group.
His international experience includes retiring from the Board on 31 August 2006, when a four-year spell in the US.
he will have completed two three-year terms as a non-executive director.
On 1 September 2006, David Michels will succeed Kevin as Senior Independent Director and Jeremy Darroch as Audit Committee chairman.
