Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Marshalls believe in conducting its business in a The Group values and derives considerable manner which achieves sustainable growth whilst competitive advantage from active co-operation incorporating and demonstrating a high degree of with its established suppliers in terms of innovation social responsibility.
Marshalls regard Corporate and product development.
Social Responsibility CSR as a journey, in the course of which it aims to align increasingly its business values, purpose and strategy with the social and Social and Ethical Responsibilities economic needs of its stakeholders, whilst The Group takes its Social and Ethical responsibilities embedding responsible and ethical business polices very seriously and is the only member of the Ethical and practices in everything it does.
Trading Initiative the ETI in its sector.
The Board takes regular account of social, As a member of the ETI it is committed to adopting environmental and ethical matters in the business of the ETI Base Code on a progressive basis throughout the Group and believes in being responsible in the its supply chains with specific focus on China and way that it conducts its operations.
The Code is based on International Labour responsible for managing the key elements of the Organization conventions and as such is widely CSR policy together with a full time CSR manager.
acknowledged as a model code of labour practice.
It contains provisions based on the following Marshalls is pleased to be a constituent member of principles: no-one should be forced to work: workers the FTSE4Good UK Index.
During the year, the Group should be able to join and form trade unions: working published its first Corporate Social Responsibility conditions should be safe and healthy: child labour Report which was posted to shareholders in should not be used: working hours should not be September 2006.
Copies are available on the excessive: wages should be enough to live on and Companys web site at www.
provide some discretionary income: workers should be treated equally regardless of their sex, ethical group, religion or political opinions: where possible, The Market Place workers should be provided with regular The Group recognises the importance of building employment: and workers should not be physically and maintaining positive relationships with its abused or disciplined.
As well as adopting the ETI Base Code, the Group has There is a commitment to a process of continual also committed to monitoring and independent improvement in meeting customers requirements verification of its supply chains, awareness-raising and expectations.
This is highlighted in the and training, driving year-on-year improvements, established customer service improvement assessing the impact of its core business activities on programme.
This programme has, since its inception labour standards, reporting annually to the ETI on in 2003, resulted in significant and sustained progress and participating in ETI projects.
improvement in customer order delivery, on time, in full and with increasingly error free product and administration.
The Group Purchasing Policy sets out the standards and ethics by which business is conducted.
It ensures that there is no bias or conflict of interest and all suppliers will be treated fairly and without prejudice.
The Group negotiates terms and conditions, including payment terms, with all its principal suppliers.
Save in the case of a dispute, payments are Children from Churchfield Primary School, Cannock Works made in accordance with such negotiated arrangements.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 23 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 24 Corporate Social Responsibility continued In May 2006 an independent audit of the Groups sole ensure that it continues to set stretching standards in terms of excellence, leadership, ownership, trust, supplier of Indian Natural Sandstone showed honesty and integrity.
There is also a published compliance to the ETI Base Code.
process through which employees can raise, in confidence, serious concerns about possible The Environment improprieties.
Marshalls is committed to assessing and managing the environmental impacts of all its operations.
The Marshalls believes that people are the key to the Environmental Report is on pages 26 to 29. success of the business and recognises the importance of diversity in terms of the community, its The Community employees and its customers.
The Board is committed to promoting and maintaining a working The Group is actively involved in programmes to environment where people are treated with respect promote good community relations and encourages and where individual talent is recognised and valued.
each business to form and support mutually The Group is committed to providing training supportive relationships with their immediate designed to raise levels of awareness and sensitivity communities which will add value to the local to matters of equality and dignity at work.
The Groups aim is to achieve this through the During the year, the Group made charitable adoption of fair and merit-based employment donations of 25,657 2005: 24,115.
It is the Groups policies and through adherence to relevant policy not to make political donations and no political legislation as the minimum acceptable standard.
donations were made in the year 2005: Nil.
Individuals with recognised disabilities are provided with equality of opportunity during their Alongside cash donations, the Group supports local employment and wherever reasonably practicable, community engagement by allowing employees to appropriate adjustments are made to ensure that participate in local projects which add value to the they do not suffer disadvantage in the workplace.
The Group continues its policy to donate products to community groups and local charities to help transform the local environment for the people living in close proximity to its sites.
Details of some of the community projects are included in the full Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Marshalls continues to be an active member of Business in the Community and has recently joined a Cares programme to progress further its connections with local communities, schools and other like minded responsible businesses.
During 2006 Marshalls contributed to many locally organised initiatives including educational school visits, college tours, work experience schemes and many other local initiatives close to our operations.
Employees The Groups Statement of Values and Principles sets out the high standards to which all Marshalls employees are encouraged and expected to adhere.
The statement includes guidance on business practice, employee relations and equality of opportunity and is subject to regular review to Reading with local primary school children 24 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 Marshalls text 2006:Marshalls Text 3 4 07 14:46 Page 25 Managers are charged with ensuring that employees health and safety performance.
To complement the for whom they have responsibility are properly extensive management health and safety training inducted at business level and provided with the programme, 2006 saw the introduction of one day necessary support both to fulfil their roles effectively refresher courses to ensure that the management and to help them develop to their full potential.
In population keep abreast of current legislation.
this way, employees are encouraged to engage fully with the businesses in which they work and to The Safety, Health and Incident Prevention Teams, identify closely with the Group's strategic aims and which consist of employees and managers, continues objectives.
to be the cornerstone of the safety management systems at site level and make a significant Investment in personal development continues with contribution to the improving annual safety initiatives in place designed to identify and nurture performance.
Manual handling continues to be the potential, ensure consistent management practices major health and safety risk and the Groups policy of are applied and provide opportunities for succession eliminating manual handling activities wherever into more senior roles.
These comprise participation practicable remains unchanged.
in regular internal coaching and mentoring programmes, undertaking internal development projects and assignments and active links with Marshalls continues the implementation of BSIleading business schools, together with on-line accredited Integrated Management Systems access to the most up to date management thinking throughout the Group.
These systems incorporate on leading business and development issues.
The accreditation to OHSAS Occupational Health and Group continues to encourage and support the Safety Management Systems Specification 18001 development of its employees through programmes and at the end of 2006 a total of 25 sites had secured of NVQ accreditation and attainment of Investor in the OHSAS 18001 accreditation, which represents People status across many sites: to date in excess of 55.9 per cent of all employees.
Accreditation of all the 350 employees have attained NVQ accreditation with remaining locations is scheduled for 2007 and 2008. a similar number actively working towards them.
In the course of 2006 the Group extended its An increasing emphasis is being placed on internal Behavioural Safety Programme to 12 locations.
This communication to employees through the use of programme aims to identify and resolve unsafe acts e-mail, intranet, newsletters, briefings and both in a positive non-judgemental manner.
The formal and informal presentations.
programme will be progressively rolled out across the Group during 2007 and 2008.
Further development of information and consultation processes has continued during 2006, maintaining the improvement in communications The Groups accident performance is monitored by through the increased involvement of, and the Board on a monthly basis.
The overall rate of engagement with, recognised trades unions and workplace accidents within the Group continues to their elected employee representatives.
The number of injury accidents reportable to the HSE under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Employees are actively encouraged to donate funds Dangerous Occurrence Regulations RIDDOR was to charity through payroll which accounted for 21.4 per 1,000 employees in 2006, compared with approximately 23,000 in 2006 2005: 23,000.
24.6 per 1,000 employees in 2005, a reduction of 13 per cent.
The target is to reduce this figure by a Health and Safety further 10 per cent in 2007.
Health and safety remains one of Marshalls highest Accidents and incidents priorities and is considered fundamental to the rate per 1,000 employees 2006 2005 success of the business.
The Group is committed to a Major injury 2.9 2.7 policy of continuous improvement of both its health Injury resulting in over 3 absence days from work 18.5 21.9 All RIDDORS 21.4 24.6 and safety management system and its annual Average UK headcount 2,746 2,884 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2006 25
