WDB 20-37 artwork 12 12 06 3:55 pm Page 1 W&DB ACCOUNTS 06 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OUR PEOPLE opportunities for students, people returning to the work environment and those who find vocational rather than Treating our people in a FIT manner remains a priority for academic training the best way to maximise their potential.
the Group and this ethos underpins all of our employee As a Group with pubs that operate at the heart of their local policies.
FIT is a summary of three fundamental behaviours communities we are proud that the people we employ that apply throughout the Group: in these pubs are drawn from these communities.
Fairness - Any action, decision or policy adopted within the The Group runs a development programme for our people Group should be both equitable and reasonable.
It should that focuses specifically on issues relating to diversity and in not result in one particular group of employees gaining an addition, this topic also features in other development and unjustified advantage or benefit at the expense of another.
training programmes such as recruitment and selection.
Integrity - If a commitment is made it should be kept.
If it Pathfinder Pubs is a member of the Employers Forum on cannot be delivered or circumstances change so that an Disability.
During the year we had an ongoing programme alternative course of action is appropriate this should be of accessibility audits of our outlets and made significant clearly explained.
investment in changes that make our pubs more accessible to customers and employees with a disability.
Transparency - Wherever there is the freedom to do so, the Group should act in a manner that is open to the scrutiny This year has also seen the introduction of a Childcare of our employees and the wider community.
Voucher Scheme offering employees significant tax savings when paying for a whole range of childcare initiatives.
The Chief Executive takes responsibility for all people related matters, which are then delegated through the Many within our head office and supply chain teams have other Executive Directors and the Groups Director of been with us for more than 25 years and we recognise this Human Resources.
The Group also publishes a full Equal loyalty and commitment with long service awards for both Opportunities Policy and a Whistleblowing Policy, both of 25 and 40 years service.
which are available on the Groups website, www.
This year we have extended our Pathfinder Privilege Listening to our people scheme, offering employees and Group pensioners 20% off The Word, the Groups employee magazine, is sent to all their food and accommodation bill in most Pathfinder Pubs, 12,500 people who work for the Group together with to our shareholders: something that has been particularly our pensioners, keeping them updated on Group events and well received.
providing an opportunity to record and celebrate employee achievements.
This is supported by regular fortnightly or Developing all of our people monthly briefing sessions throughout the Group.
The Group operates a whole range of activities designed to encourage anyone who wants to develop within the business.
The Group has a long history of excellent consultative and collective bargaining relationships with its trade unions, at All bar and kitchen staff receive a comprehensive induction, its breweries, distribution centres, head office and pub sites.
job skills and health and safety training and can then opt Employee representatives, both trade union officials and lay to go on to undertake specialist courses in areas such as members, have a significant and recognised role to play in catering or cellar management before moving on to our developing our business and we intend to continue to Keyholder Programme.
The Keyholder Programme is encourage such participation.
designed to encourage staff within Pathfinders pubs to obtain the skills they need to ultimately manage their own Our confidential employee attitude survey is an important outlet and then possibly move into area management.
part of our employee feedback process.
The next round of this survey is due to be run in 2007 and we are confident that We offer similar induction, job skills and health and safety we will maintain and build upon the excellent scores we have training to all our industrial staff together with specialist achieved in our two previous surveys.
courses such as fork lift truck and HGV driving.
Ultimately they can graduate onto courses accredited by the Chartered Institute of Management CIM that prepare them for The Group operates a free Employee Assistance Programme supervisory, technical or management roles.
providing confidential support for employees, either directly or through their manager, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
For head office and management staff we run a large range Diversity and work life balance of development programmes, many accredited by the CIM or other external training education bodies.
Our people are The vast majority of our people work on a part time basis to suit their personal circumstances offering excellent encouraged to apply for these in order to develop themselves 20 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 WDB 20-37 artwork 12 12 06 3:55 pm Page 2 W&DB ACCOUNTS 06  and their teams.
As well as internal programmes the Group by setting challenging targets for energy reduction to ensure supports many of its employees through further and higher continuous improvement in environmental performance.
We also run short courses covering general interests and hobbies to encourage people to think about We collate and analyse statistics related to the Climate development in a positive way and to foster a spirit of Control Levy, energy usage and effluent production to lifelong learning.
compare production sites and provide targets for general improvement initiatives.
The results are also used to The Group has been continually accredited with the prestigious assist in the determination of capital investment projects, Investor in People standard since 1995 and has won a number update future energy targets and form part of the post of National Training Awards over the same period.
A sensitive approach to restructuring We also continue to monitor energy usage per square foot The Group has been at the forefront of the industrys consolidation in our managed estate and have recently appointed a process and the transfer of managed pubs to the tenanted utilities specialist to help us fully optimise the benefits of lease operating model.
In addition to this, Pathfinder Pubs was the first pub operator to work on a joint project with the Carbon Trust Whilst we seek to minimise the impact of this on employees, and we are about to start detailed energy usage monitoring we recognise that this does sometimes result in people in a large sample of our pubs to actively explore opportunities leaving the business.
The Group has a redundancy policy that, for further carbon emission reduction.
One practical outcome through individual and collective consultative processes, seeks of an increased focus on energy usage has been the purchase to avoid or minimise the number of job losses that may result and installation of more energy efficient cellar coolers and from such activity.
Where avoidance is not a viable option we bottle cabinets.
seek to minimise the impact through the selective use of initiatives such as redeployment, natural wastage, voluntary We now use low energy lighting in the majority of the trading severance, outplacement support and enhanced redundancy areas and all of the back of house areas within our Pathfinder packages.
In 2004 the Group was highly commended at the Human Water use Resources Excellence Awards for its work in this area.
We continue to undertake detailed surveys at our prime usage sites with a view to recommending methods of reducing PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT usage.
We have now completed water risk assessments in all of our Pathfinder pubs and monitoring procedures are The Board determines the Groups Environmental Policy and being introduced on a rolling basis.
We also work with water the Environmental Committee, chaired by the Finance authorities and the Environment Agency to meet standards Director, is responsible for policy implementation.
for disposal of rainwater and effluent.
Environmental management Adding to the work already undertaken, a major project The Group uses structured environmental management has been initiated at our Burton brewing site which, once systems and processes that allow it to: - completed, should see significant and sustained reductions in our consumption of water and generation of effluent.
Adopt economic production processes, which minimise environmental impact.
Recycling Continue to aim for prevention of pollution at source.
We recycle wherever it is practical to do so.
During the Provide appropriate training so that employees are able course of our last financial year we recycled nearly 350 to exercise personal responsibility in preventing harm tonnes of cardboard, over 100 tonnes of plastic and over to the environment.
700 tonnes of glass within our packaging operation alone.
Contribute to every aspect of environmental protection.
Provide facilities for environmental auditing.
We are also running recycling initiatives in conjunction with our waste disposal contractor within our Pathfinder Pubs The Group has Integrated Pollution Prevention Control IPPC estate.
We currently have 150 pubs participating in the permits from the Environment Agency for our qualifying scheme who, on an annual basis, will recycle over 2,800 production sites.
This permit recognises the best use of tonnes of glass, a tonnage that will increase as more available techniques for energy and waste management.
pubs are added to the initiative.
We are also exploring the possibility of setting up a similar scheme for Energy recycling cardboard.
The Groups aim is to minimise energy consumption by its continued use of measuring and monitoring techniques and 21 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 WDB 20-37 artwork 12 12 06 3:55 pm Page 3 W&DB ACCOUNTS 06  HEALTH AND SAFETY to take positive steps to ensure that difficult situations are The Board and health and safety handled in a calm, safe and considered manner.
Particular The Group has a Health and Safety Policy, endorsed by the emphasis is placed upon the identification of potential Board and used throughout the Group.
The annual report underage drinkers and the Group supports the Challenge and presentation to the Board by the Group Health and Safety 21 initiative in both its managed and leased pub estate.
Manager gives detailed statistics on health and safety issues and the progress made in improving our performance where Within The Union Pub Company we run a customised drinks required.
These reports also outline planned health and and drugs awareness programme, which our lessees and safety initiatives and comments on potential future tenants are encouraged to attend.
Having been chosen as developments and challenges.
Most Responsible On Trade Retailer Pub Company at the Responsible Drinks Retailing Awards 2004 run by The Health and safety practical application and Morning Advertiser, The Union Pub Company continues to employee involvement lead the field in this area.
Relevant health and safety information and guidance forms a part of our induction process, and many managers have been The Group is a member of the British Beer and Pub trained in risk assessment techniques.
All of our production, Association BBPA, and Pathfinder Pubs and The Union Pub distribution and head office locations, together with Company are both associate members of The Portman Group Pathfinder Pubs, have active health and safety committees, and are committed to complying with the provisions of its involving both managers and employees, which meet code.
Full details of this code of practice can be found on The regularly and are co-ordinated by the Group Health and Portman Group website either directly or via the link from Safety Manager.
the Groups own website www.
The Union Pub Company and Pathfinder Pubs will also be supporting the Within Pathfinder Pubs, all pubs undergo health and safety Drinkaware Trust and the activities it plans.
audits by an external contractor and the measures by which we judge a satisfactory outcome are continually reviewed and For the last two years the Group has provided funding for raised.
Each pub receives a comprehensive health and safety Staffordshire County Youth Service enabling them to give manual for use as a source of information, guidance and their teenage Peer Health Advisors alcohol awareness training together with a set of compliance documentation training.
The outcome was that well over 1,000 young people that has been widely praised by Environmental Health Officers.
have received advice and support from this initiative and it is likely that this will be repeated this year.
In The Union Pub Company tenants and lessees are provided with the opportunity to receive health and safety training, and IN THE COMMUNITY can also obtain examples of best practice for use within their pubs.
The Group is committed to being an active and positive contributor to the communities it serves.
The Groups Field Operations Interventions for Larger Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR Committee Enterprises FOILE Initiative meets at least quarterly, under the stewardship of the The FOILE Initiative is a programme established by the Finance Director.
Health and Safety Executive HSE with a view to taking a more proactive stance to health and safety management.
Community support The Group were pleased to be asked to work in partnership The Group works with Business in the Community and with the HSE and we look forward to seeing this relationship encourages employees to get involved in voluntary projects develop further.
Examples this year have involved teams of employees undertaking projects with the National Trust, A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS ALCOHOL the Acorns Childrens Hospice in Walsall and two local schools, all aimed at providing or refurbishing facilities Our promotional material carries a clear and concise for these organisations.
The Group is very pleased to be message encouraging the responsible consumption of asked to support, both financially and practically, these alcohol, together with information about the alcohol content employee initiatives.
Marstons Pedigree was the first beer brand to include a responsible drinking message in its WDB Brands personnel in Wolverhampton are also involved television advertising, something that the rest of the sector in the Mayors Charities through our support of the has been quick to adopt.
Our training programmes for our retail staff include Charitable donations significant elements designed to assist their determination of Each year our licensed retail managers, pub staff and when it would be inappropriate to serve a customer and how tenants raise significant amounts of money for many 22 W&DB ANNUAL REPORT 2006 WDB 20-37 artwork 12 12 06 3:55 pm Page 4 W&DB ACCOUNTS 06  different charitable causes through local pub based activity and contributions from the Pathfinder Local Heroes Foundation.
Donations from the foundation are funded directly from contributions made by employees within its head office function, which are then matched by the Pathfinder Pubs division.
In addition to providing prizes and administrative support for the charitable activities of their tenants and lessees, The Union Pub Company raises money for nominated charities and WDB Brands makes hundreds of prize donations for charitable activities run by its Free Trade customers.
Our employees also run their own W&DB Employee Charity Fund, which we are proud to support.
This fund is run by employees for employees and since its inception has raised well over 160,000 for local causes.
In the last twelve months the fund has made donations totalling some 11,000 to a range of good local causes nominated by our employees.
In support of this the Group runs Give As You Earn arrangements for employees enabling them to make tax-efficient donations to this, or any other registered charity of their choice.
The administration charges for running this scheme are borne by the Group, thereby ensuring that employees donations are given in their entirety to good causes.
ETHICAL PURCHASING As a responsible employer we have a duty to support and encourage a responsible purchasing policy for all of its goods and services.
As a minimum, all of our purchasing professionals abide by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supplys CIPS Professional Code of Ethics Statement.
This code requires purchasing professionals to have due regard for their responsibilities in respect of a whole range of issues and full details of the code can be found on the CIPS website or follow the link on our own Group website, www.
The Finance Director, through the Group Director of Purchasing, is responsible for the implementation and monitoring of this policy.
In support of our commitment to this code of practice we are also registered members of SEDEX, the Suppliers Ethical Data Exchange.
