MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties 37 Meggitts risk management framework includes a formal process for identifying, assessing and responding to risk in relation to the groups strategy and business objectives.
Risk management operates at all levels throughout Meggitt, across business lines, regions and functions.
The Board is responsible for risk management including maintaining the groups risk governance structure and an appropriate internal control framework see page 51.
In 2012, the role of Senior Vice President, Risk Management and Corporate Administration was created to give greater focus to Meggitts risk management and reporting.
The role, approved by the Board, reports directly to the Group Corporate Affairs Director.
Types of risk We monitor risk across four broad categoriesmarkets, operations, finance and corporate.
The risks outlined below, which are not presented in order of priority, are those the group believes are the principal ones it faces.
However, additional risks, of which the group is unaware, or risks the group does not currently consider material, could have an adverse impact.
Markets Finance Change in risk in year Competition Credit No change Product demand Exchange rates IT security Financing Higher risk Retirement benets funding Lower risk Operations Corporate Acquisitions Environmental Contracts Legal and regulatory Equipment fault Organisational structure Supply chain MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 38 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Markets Competition We operate in a highly competitive global market that has Protecting our position by maintaining a broad experienced significant consolidation in recent years.
contracts to competitors, some of whom have greater financial, Maintaining diverse products and operations to technological and marketing resources, or being forced to accept reduce the effect of action by any single competitor.
lower margins, would have an adverse effect on Meggitts results.
Maintaining a competitive manufacturing base with low-cost operations in China, Mexico and Vietnam.
The groups competitive position would suffer were it unable to Maintaining the highest manufacturing and quality meet future investment requirements, continue research and standards and adhering to individual customer development or provide cash and equipment incentives to original certication requirements.
Such investments, which decrease Developing proprietary intellectual property and our cash ow in the short-term, need to be recovered through products in markets that demand high levels of future revenues.
technology, quality and service and strong, long-term Losing key intellectual property or failing to enforce its rights relationships with customers.
could hinder our development and provide competitor advantage.
Maintaining a robust intellectual property protection programme.
Ensuring good operational cash ow and available finance.
Aligning organisational structure with customer requirements.
Military markets currently account for 39% of group revenues.
Spreading our activities across the civil aerospace, Product demand Any reduction in military spending or reordering of priorities, military and energy markets.
particularly by the US government Meggitts largest end Generating revenues from original equipment customer, could adversely affect our revenues.
Operating across different geographical regions.
A significant or prolonged downturn due to recession, commodity Maintaining, where practical, a exible manufacturing prices, terrorist attack or aerospace regulations would decrease cost base, maximising benets by sourcing from demand for the groups products from civil aerospace customers, lower cost markets as appropriate.
which currently account for 45% of group revenues.
Intellectual property and other business data are stored and Monitoring risks and prioritising mitigation actions IT security transmitted electronically.
Accordingly, the group is exposed to through an IT security committee.
the increasing risk of data loss either through third-party breach Continually enhancing IT security policies, upgrading of our systems or the unintentional loss of data by employees.
and standardising security tools and implementing comprehensive, group-wide training programmes.
The group is implementing a number of global IT solutions based Progressively rolling out SAP under the governance around a core SAP ERP system across its sites.
Failure to of a dedicated steering committee18 sites to date implement the new systems successfully could lead to successfully implemented.
increased costs, loss of data, operational delays and unplanned Hosting SAP in two separate locations, each with increases in working capital.
Operations Acquisitions Meggitt continues to pursue acquisitions as part of our growth Undertaking robust due diligence procedures.
Such acquisitions may not realise expected benets.
Obtaining representations, warranties and indemnities from vendors where possible.
Appointing full-time integration teams on all major acquisitions.
Implementing comprehensive business integration processes building on the success of previous acquisition integrations.
Integration of PacSci is now largely complete.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 39 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Operations Contracts Multi-year, xed price contracts with original equipment Ensuring estimates of cost are based on reliable manufacturing customers expose us to variations in historic data, future productivity improvements and, production costs.
where possible, entering into multi-year, xed price contracts with major suppliers.
The group is subject to the contracting regulations of our Maintaining a comprehensive ethics and business government customers, particularly those of the US government, conduct programme, including guidelines for doing our largest end customer, which can impose a range of sanctions business with the US Government and an antiin response to violations.
Entering into commitments only after rigorous commercial and legal reviews of contract terms.
Implementing a programme of training and development to strengthen the commercial functions within the businesses.
Meggitts products generally operate in extreme environments Designing engineering standards and manufacturing Equipment fault where a serious incident arising from failure could result in processes that ensure stringent quality and reliability liabilities for personal injury or death and damage to our standards.
Implementing best practice operational performance standards through the rollout of the Meggitt The group may also be subject to material product warranty Production System.
obligations to third parties for equipment it manufactures Protecting the group from potential product and services.
liability claims with liability insurance subject to coverage limits.
We rely on our own manufacturing operations and independent Maintaining significant investment in modernising Supply chain suppliers for key raw materials and components, some of which facilities and improving production processes to may be available from a limited number of suppliers.
Any develop leading manufacturing operations.
disruption to the supply chain could have an impact on our Maintaining a supplier risk assessment programme.
ability to meet customer requirements and adversely affect Subjecting robust business continuity plans to regular the groups results.
testing to manage the risk of a loss of a major facility or supplier.
Meggitts operations are becoming increasingly subject to global Continuing to source a significant proportion of laws and regulations restricting the use of various hazardous products and services from lower cost economies.
substances in our manufacturing processes and in our products.
Forming an Obsolescence Review Board consisting This exposes the group to potential supply chain disruptions of of senior members of the HSE, procurement, critical substances needed to meet stringent product engineering, quality and legal departments to track performance requirements mandated by our customers.
and assess regulatory developments and create action plans to identify and qualify alternative substances or sources of supply as required.
Finance Credit Credit risk exists in relation to customers, banks and insurers.
Maintaining a wide customer base and rigorous credit control procedures.
Maintaining a broad insurer group and monitoring the credit rating of those insurers.
Implementing offset arrangements and cash deposit restrictions.
We operate in, and sell products to, a range of countries with Maintaining hedging in excess of 70% of the next Exchange rates different currencies, resulting in exchange rate exposure.
Transaction risk arises where revenues are denominated in Addressing longer-term risk of exposure to exchange currencies different from those of the costs of manufacture.
rate uctuations by sourcing goods and services in Translation risk arises on the conversion into sterling of income currencies matching the revenue exposure where statements and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Managing translation risk where possible by matching the currency of borrowings with the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 40 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action Finance Financing Meggitts long-term nancing is provided by shareholders in Maintaining good relationships with major the form of equity and by banks and other institutions in the shareholders as evidenced by the equity placing form of debt.
of 246 million in January 2011 to support the acquisition of Pacic scientific Aerospace.
The ability to raise additional equity finance depends on general Negotiating debt facility extensions.
During the year market conditions and convincing potential investors of the the group successfully renanced a 2013 maturing strategic case for investing in Meggitt.
bank facility with a new five-year USD400 million Debt facilities are provided for nite periods of time and need to committed revolving bank facility.
No further be renewed periodically, unless repaid from cash generated.
Such renewal could be affected by any structural issues in the Maintaining a broad and geographically diverse credit markets.
banking syndicate, with good credit ratings.
Using longer term US private placement funding Debt facilities contain covenants which, if breached, could result to reduce reliance on banks.
in the facilities being withdrawn.
Basing covenant calculations on frozen GAAP to reduce volatility arising from certain fair value measurements and any future accounting standard changes.
Including covenant clauses that enable net debt and EBITDA to be retranslated to sterling at similar exchange rates to reduce exchange movement volatility.
Regularly monitoring actual and forecast results against covenant ratios.
The groups post-retirement benefit schemes are in deficit Closing all dened benefit pension schemes in the Retirement 299.7 million at 31 December 2012.
The future deficit position UK and US to new members.
benets funding may be adversely affected by poor investment performance, Reducing future service costs by basing UK future changes in corporate bond yields and ination rates, greater than accruals on career average salaries and freezing anticipated improvements in life expectancy and changes in the group contributions to post-retiree healthcare regulatory environment.
This would have an adverse effect on schemes at 2011 levels.
amounts recorded in the income statement and the level of future Agreeing deficit recovery plans with the trustees cash contributions required to be made.
based on actuarial advice and the results of scheme valuations.
Corporate Meggitts operations and facilities are subject to laws and Designing processes that minimise the effect of the Environmental regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous groups operations on the environment.
substances into air and water, the handling, storage and disposal Maintaining a programme of independent third-party of such materials, and other environmental matters.
Failing to audits of our sites.
comply with our obligations potentially exposes the group to Carrying out extensive environmental due diligence serious consequences, including fines, other sanctions and on potential acquisitions.
Purchasing environmental insurance for all new, and acquired, sites where this is appropriate.
We are involved in the investigation and remediation of current and former sites for which we have been identied as a potentially responsible party under US law.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 41 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business and Maintaining a legal compliance and risk management Legal and provide for such costs where appropriate.
However, there is a risk function to oversee the management of these risks regulatory that successful claims or costs could exceed provisions.
For and the appropriate response to any issues as example, a number of asbestos-related claims have been made they arise.
To date, the amount connected Maintaining a comprehensive health and safety with such claims in any year has not been material and many programme across all of our businesses, including claims are covered fully or partly by existing insurance and third-party audits, benchmarking of performance, indemnities.
Investing significant resources in implementing best The group is subject to the laws and regulations of the countries practice trade compliance and ethics programmes in which it operates, including health and safety, environmental, which are reviewed quarterly by the Boards Ethics export and import compliance and government contracting and Trade Compliance Committee.
In the US, there is a system of voluntary disclosure to the relevant authorities to deal with any breach of export laws.
Any reported or unreported breach may be investigated and, depending upon its seriousness, result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including suspension or debarment.
The US authorities are investigating alleged violations of US export control laws by four US Meggitt subsidiaries and a UK business.
These investigations are likely to lead to financial penalties for which provision has been made and the imposition of corrective measures.
Suspension or debarment and denial of export privileges are also possible.
The aerospace industry is highly regulated so the group would be adversely affected if a material certication, authorisation or approval were revoked or suspended.
Meggitts success depends upon the efforts, abilities, experience Maintaining development and succession programmes, Organisational structure and expertise of certain senior and specialist employees.
competitive benchmarked remuneration packages and Failure to retain them or recruit alternatives would have an good communications at all levels.
Strengthening central sales and marketing, operational excellence, IT, legal and compliance functions.
The group would be adversely affected by work stoppages Implementing a new divisional structure.
or slowdowns at its facilities and those of key customers Standardising back ofce functions, provided or suppliers.
increasingly through shared service centres.
As the group continues to grow organically and through acquisition it risks becoming fragmented and unable to execute its strategic objectives.
