Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 37 Risks and uncertainties Melrose operates in a wide variety of sectors and countries and is exposed to a range of risks and uncertainties from a strategic, operational, compliance, ethical and financial perspective.
Detailed below are risks and uncertainties that could impact on the Companys performance.
A risk management and internal controls framework is in place within the Group to ensure that such risks and uncertainties can be identied and where possible managed suitably.
Strategic Risk Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors t Discovery of unforeseen liabilities following t Structured and focused due diligence undertaken.
Acquisition of new businesses acquisition.
t Focus on acquisition targets that have strong and improvement strategies t Value generation post acquisition does not meet headline fundamentals - high quality products, expectations.
leading market share but are underperforming their potential and ability to generate sustainable t Need for a greater amount of capital expenditure cash ows and profit growth.
and working capital to grow the acquired business than originally forecast.
t Hands-on role taken by Directors and other senior employees of the Group.
Development of t Ability to integrate newly acquired businesses into strategic plans, restructuring opportunities, capital an enlarged Group.
expenditure and working capital management.
t Timing of disposal of companies.
t Directors are experienced in judging and regularly Disposals reviewing the appropriate time in a business t Long term liabilities retained by the Group post cycle for disposal to realise maximum value for disposal.
t Each disposal is assessed on its merits, along with the extent to which indemnities, warranties and guarantees are provided.
Operational Risk Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors t difficult macro-economic conditions, changing t Diverse range of companies operating within the Economic and political risk pattern of global demand and political uncertainty.
Group, within a variety of different industries and countries, which reduces macro-economic and political risks.
t Regular monitoring of order books and other leading indicators, to ensure the Group and each of its businesses can respond quickly to any adverse trading conditions.
This includes the identication of cost reduction and efficiency measures.
t Concentration of customers in certain markets t Diverse portfolio of businesses serving different Customers and or countries around the world.
No reliance on any one customer, or group of customers.
At a business t Financial viability of key customers.
unit level, performance could be materially t Major customers may not buy into product affected by the loss of a key customer and regular concepts that are at the forefront of technology, monitoring is undertaken to reduce such risks.
or delay placing orders for such products.
t Active credit management and development of t Pricing pressures from major customers and customer relations at a business level.
t Monitoring of key markets for early warning of t Operational problems at key customers leading to negative commercial trends.
delays in future orders being placed and existing orders being received.
Melrose Industries PLC 38 Annual Report 2012 Risks and uncertainties continued Operational Risk Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors t Over reliance on a small number of suppliers, t Diverse portfolio of suppliers.
The Company is not Suppliers leading to a lack of availability.
reliant on any one supplier, or group of suppliers.
t Production volatility and supply chain disruption.
t Ongoing assessment of suppliers, including the monitoring of their financial viability.
t Fluctuations in cost of raw materials.
t If commercially suitable, contract prices are agreed with raw material suppliers to reduce the effect of short term price uctuations.
Risks are further reduced by the use of escalation clauses, surcharges and price increases when negotiating contracts, together with the use of matching hedging arrangements.
t Reputational risks from product quality issues.
t Investment made available to allow for product Product quality improvements and efficient production processes.
t Product liabilities regarding defective products.
t Well dened testing procedures together with suitable research and development facilities at key manufacturing locations.
t Maintenance of insurance policies to cover product related liabilities.
t Delays in the manufacture of products due to t Maintenance of insurance policies to cover certain Production delays equipment failure, re, natural disaster, war or civil losses and ensure recovery of production.
t Diverse range of companies operating in the Group, within a variety of different industries and countries.
t Increased level of competition leading to loss t Substantial investment in research and Competitive markets of market share and or reducing operational development.
Funds made available for both margins.
the development of new products and to meet changing customer demands.
t Ongoing monitoring of competing markets and products to ensure that potential threats are identied quickly.
t Development of close customer relationships, understanding of customer needs and rigorous focus on costs.
t Failure of IT systems leading to severe operational t Different IT systems used in each business.
Regular review of IT policies and procedures within each business, to include disaster recovery planning.
t Over reliance on small number of Directors and t Succession planning within the Group is Loss of key management other senior managers, within both the Group and co-ordinated via the Nominations Committee individual businesses.
in conjunction with the Board and includes all Directors and senior employees.
t Competition to recruit and retain highly qualied management and technical personnel.
t The Company recognises that, as with most businesses, particularly those operating within a technical eld, it is dependent on Directors and employees with particular managerial, engineering, or technical skills.
Appropriate remuneration packages and long term incentive arrangements are offered in an effort to retain such individuals.
net Stock code: MRO 39 Compliance and Ethical Risk Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors t Ongoing changes to legal and or regulatory t Regular monitoring of legal and regulatory Legal, regulatory and requirements that may substantially differ from matters at both a Group and business unit intellectual property IP country to country.
Consultation with external advisers where necessary.
t Development of suitable corporate governance t Infringement or other inappropriate use of the and compliance procedures both at a Group and Groups IP rights by a third party, leading to business unit level.
reputational issues and potential loss of sales.
t Protection of rights over trademarks, copyright, t Infringement of anti-corruption and economic patents, designs and trade secrets, where sanctions.
t Reputational risk caused by ethical breach.
t Group-wide policies are in place to ensure ethical Business conduct standards are adhered to within the businesses, which include anti-bribery and whistleblowing procedures.
t Potential risk of injury or damage to employees t Strong approach to managing health and safety.
Health, safety and or third parties if policies and procedures are not Employee suggestions actively encouraged.
t Group-wide health and safety KPIs within the t Breach of legal and or regulatory requirements.
Lifting, Energy and Other Industrial divisions, designed to overlay the well established business specic KPIs.
The Elster businesses will start to report under these Group health and safety KPIs during 2013. Review of health, safety and environmental matters at both Group Board meetings and business level meetings, together with the completion of risk control surveys.
Financial Risk Nature of Risk Mitigating Factors t Inability of the Group to meet its financial t Ensure the Company has adequate resources to Liquidity obligations.
meet its liabilities by reviewing its rolling forecasts, ensuring there is sufficient headroom within committed bank facilities to cope with market volatility.
t Material uctuations of interest rates.
t The Company enters into a suitable amount of Finance cost interest rate protection to limit this exposure.
t Exposure to uctuations in foreign currency t The Company policy is to protect against the Exchange rate values.
majority of foreign exchange risk which affects cash.
t Transaction risk when a business is acquired disposed and amounts paid received in a foreign t Protection against specic transaction risks are currency.
taken by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
t Pension deficit levels are affected by changes in t Each of the Groups key funded pension plans are Pensions asset values, discount rates, ination and now closed to new entrants and future service mortality assumptions.
Long term funding arrangements are agreed with each of these plans and reviewed t Higher deficit levels may increase requirement on following completion of actuarial valuations.
Other the Group to fund the deficit.
pension plans exist within the Group but these are largely unfunded schemes whereby funding plans are not required and benefit obligations are paid when due.
t Active management of pension plan assets.
Further information regarding the key pension plans can be found on pages 50 and 51 of the Directors report.
Further details in relation to the financial risks are shown within the Finance Directors review on pages 34 to 36.
