economic uncertainty, a more cautious funding position People TREASURY MANAGEMENT is adopted, with the Group being managed in a net The resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit AND CURRENCY RISK cash position.
talented people with the right skill-sets could adversely affect the Groups results.
This is further compounded by It is the Directors intention to continue to finance the Cash surpluses are invested in short-term deposits, with the Groups organic growth strategy and its policy of not activities and development of the Group from retained any working capital requirements being provided from externally hiring senior operational positions.
Mitigation of earnings and to operate the Groups business while Group cash resources, Group facilities, or by local overdraft this risk is achieved by succession planning, training of staff, maintaining a strong balance sheet position.
The Group has a multi-currency notional cash competitive pay structures and share plans linked to the benign economic environment, this equates to maintaining pool between the Eurozone subsidiaries and the UK-based Groups results and career progression.
the Groups net cash debt position within a relatively narrow Group Treasury subsidiary.
The structure facilitates interest band, with cash generated in excess of these requirements and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
Macroeconomic environment being used to buy back the Groups shares.
In a period of Recruitment activity is largely driven by economic cycles The main functional currencies of the Group are Sterling, and the levels of business confidence.
The Board look Euro and Australian Dollar.
The Group does not have to reduce the Groups cyclical risk by diversifying the material transactional currency exposures, nor is there a business by expanding geographically, increasing the material exposure to foreign denominated monetary assets number of disciplines, building part qualied and clerical and liabilities.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency businesses and continuing to build the temporary business.
translation differences in accounting for its overseas A substantial portion of the Groups gross profit arises from operations.
Our policy is not to hedge this exposure.
fees that are contingent upon the successful placement of a candidate in a position.
If a client cancels the assignment In certain cases, where the Group gives or receives shortat any stage in the process, the Group receives no term loans to and from other Group companies with different remuneration.
As a consequence, the Groups visibility of reporting currencies, it may use foreign exchange swap gross profits is generally quite short and reduces further derivative financial instruments to manage the currency and during periods of economic downturn.
interest rate exposure that arises on these loans.
It is the Groups policy not to seek to designate these derivatives Competition as hedges.
The degree of competition varies in each of the Groups main regions.
In the UK, Australia and North America, the recruitment market is well developed, highly competitive and PRINCIPLE RISKS fragmented.
The characteristics of a developed market are AND UNCERTAINTIES greater competition for clients and candidates, as well as pricing pressure.
In the majority of EMEA, Latin America and The management of the business and the execution of Asia, the recruitment market is generally less developed, the Groups strategy are subject to a number of risks.
The with a large proportion of all recruitment being carried out following section comprises a summary of the main risks by companies internal resources, rather than through PageGroup believes could potentially impact the Groups recruitment specialists.
This is changing due to changes in operating and financial performance.
legislation, increasing job mobility and the difficulty internal resources face in sourcing suitably qualied candidates and 28
