Principal risks and uncertainties The Group, in common with all businesses, could be affected A full risk register has been developed for ongoing evaluation by risks which could have a material effect on its short and and mitigation and the following are the key risks, potential longer-term fi financial performance.
These risks could cause impacts and mitigations that are relevant to the Group as a provider actual results to differ materially from forecasts or historic of software products and associated services.
Please also refer to the results.
Where possible, the Group seeks to mitigate these section on internal controls within the corporate governance report risks through its system of internal controls but this can only on pages 22 to 27. provide reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against material losses.
Principal risks have been identifi ed in the following fi five categories Products, Go To Market, Employees, Competition and Systems With regard to the Groups objectives, the board and executive and Infrastructure.
management team have identifi ed and prioritised the key risks and reviewed the controls in place for management to mitigate those risks.
Products Risk Mitigation Investment in research and innovation in product development Product Management has been a key focus area in the year ended is essential to meet customer and partner requirements in order 30 April 2012 and will continue to be so.
The Product Management to drive revenue growth and corporate performance.
In addition, teams have been strengthened and refocused under new leadership the ability to cross-sell the Micro Focus product set is an opportunity promoted from within.
Product Management has been more closely to exploit additional customer opportunities.
aligned with both Sales and Development.
Product Management for the Borland product set has been given renewed focus and now Potential impact reports directly to the General Manager for Borland, whilst Product Insuffi cient focus on key research and development projects may Management for COBOL Development and Mainframe Solutions damage the long-term growth prospects of the Group.
Poor crossCDMS reports to the President of Sales.
The Development teams selling of Micro Focus products will reduce the prospects for additional are also structured with the same reporting lines, such that there revenue streams going forward.
is close alignment and collaboration between Sales, Product Management and Development.
For the year ending 30 April 2013 product development plans have been approved, following detailed reviews, with additional investment frameworks undergoing assessment in response to marketplace trends and customer feedback.
With regard to cross-selling, sales teams receive training to cover selling techniques for the full portfolio of products, and sales incentives and training have been further improved to encourage enhanced collaboration across product sets.
Go to market models Risk Mitigation For the Group to succeed in meeting revenue and growth targets Revenue plans are supported by a range of measures to monitor and it requires successful go to market models across the full product drive improvements in go to market operating models.
In addition portfolio, with effective strategies and plans to exploit channel to quarterly business reviews with all geographies and monthly reviews opportunities and focus the salesforce on all types of customer with regional presidents, the President of Sales participates in weekly categories.
In addition, effective go to market models will be management team meetings to review sales performance and go more successful if accompanied by compelling Micro Focus brand to market priorities.
Customer sales cycles are reviewed regularly awareness programmes.
and a bid review process is in place to monitor and maximise customer revenue opportunities.
In addition to sales performance reviews, Potential impact marketing and product development programmes are assessed regularly Poor execution of go to market plans may limit the success to optimise levels of qualifi ed pipeline and ensure that marketing of the Group by targeting the wrong customers through programmes are supported by appropriate product offerings.
the wrong channels and using the wrong product offerings.
During the year a global leadership team for the Borland product set incorporating Test and Niche products, was established under a General Manager for Borland reporting directly to the Executive Chairman.
This was driven by the need for greater focus on this product set and to ensure that the sales organisation was properly enabled to sell the Borland technology.
A series of measures are in place to direct the focus of the sales force towards a broad range of customer categories.
These measures include detailed bid management, tailored quota targets and robust presales management.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 Go to market models The Group has introduced programmes to improve existing channels and expand into new routes to market.
The Group has established a dedicated Partners and Alliances team to increase the focus on maximising the opportunities with new and existing partners.
Strategic partners, such as systems integrators and key distributors, are served by tailored review and enablement programmes, while new online routes to market have been introduced, for example a web based sales site.
In addition, brand awareness programmes are in place and reviewed on an ongoing basis to draw on differentiated and consistent PR plans across key geographies.
These are supported by targeted analyst relations to reach and raise Micro Focus brand awareness through key marketplace infl uencers.
Brand building is also supported by a growing customer reference programme and online programmes such as effective search engine optimisation and improved corporate websites.
In the year ending 30 April 2013 the Group will be running online advertising campaigns to increase awareness of the Micro Focus and Borland brands.
Employees Risk Mitigation The retention and recruitment of highly skilled and motivated The Group has policies in place to help ensure that it is able to attract employees, at all levels of the Group, is critical to the success and and retain employees with the required skills.
These policies include future growth of the Group in all countries in which it currently training, career development and long-term fi financial incentives.
Employees require clear business objectives, and a well Leadership training schemes are in place to support management communicated vision and values, for the Group to achieve alignment development and succession plans.
At the start of the year ended and a common sense of corporate purpose among the workforce.
30April 2012 a renewed vision and corporate objectives were shared throughout the organisation and are reinforced through Potential impact regular employee communications plans and performance reviews.
Failure to retain and develop skill sets, particularly in sales and research and development may hinder the Groups sales and development plans.
Weak organisational alignment and inadequate incentives may lead to poor performance and instability.
Competition Risk Mitigation Comprehensive information about the markets in which Micro Focus Group product plans contain analysis of competitive threats and operates is required for the Group to assess competitive risks effectively subscriptions to industry analyst fi rms are leveraged to understand and to perform successfully.
market dynamics and competitor strategies better.
In addition, customer contact programmes are mined for competitive intelligence.
Potential impact Failure to understand the competitive landscape adequately and thereby identify where competitive threats exist may damage the successful sales of the Groups products.
Systems and infrastructure Risk Mitigation Adequate investment is required to develop effective systems Group policies are in place to review the ongoing additional investment and infrastructure that will support the ambitions of the Company.
required to enhance key IT systems and processes.
Management Management information must be of suffi cient quality to allow information draws on comprehensive product reports and functional effective and timely decision making.
plans to extract the key metrics needed to manage the Group at a corporate, regional and product level.
Potential impact Ineffective Micro Focus systems and infrastructure could lead to an The Business Change function provides programme and project unstable platform for the Groups future success, and deliver management support on key systems and infrastructure projects inadequate management information.
in order to ensure that the impact of planned changes to systems and infrastructure is properly assessed and the implementation of projects is effectively managed.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
