Our risks Like any other business, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which are influenced by both internal and external factors, often outside our control.
In this section, we describe the principal risks that could have a material effect on the Groups business activities.
Risk factors Management of risk We provide information on the nature of the risk, actions Our risk management activity is directed by the taken to mitigate risk exposure and an indication of Executive Management Committee, led by the Chief whether the type of risk is increasing, reducing or Executive Officer, and is facilitated by the Head of Risk remains largely unchanged.
Not all potential risks are and Internal Audit.
Risk registers are compiled, and listed below.
Some risks are excluded because the periodically updated, which map the nature of the risks Board considers them not material to the Group as a relative to their likelihood of occurrence and severity and associated trends.
Our processes aim to provide reasonable, but cannot give absolute, assurance that the risks significant Individual management committee members to our business have been identified and addressed.
are assigned responsibility for devising risk treatment Additionally, there may be risks that are not reasonably plans to eliminate, minimise or transfer risks.
The foreseeable at the date of this report for the Group Chief Executive Officer and members of the Executive to assess fully their potential impact on the business.
Management Committee undertake regular reviews The order in which risks are presented below is not of the risk register and progress with risk indicative of the relative potential impact on the Group.
The potential effect of these risks may be material to the Groups business by having an impact on revenues, The Board has overall responsibility for the risk management process and for ensuring that our risks are profits, net assets and financial resources.
Such risks also have the potential to impact on the Groups managed appropriately and, either directly or through reputation.
It is often difficult to assess with accuracy the Audit Committee, reviews the effectiveness of the the likely impact of an event on a Groups reputation, as Groups risk management processes and other internal any damage may often be disproportionate to the controls.
The Head of Risk and Internal Audit provides events actual financial impact.
the Audit Committee with a quarterly update of risk management activity and the risk register.
In general, the geographical spread of the Group provides a natural hedge against many of the principal risks identified on the following pages.
24 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance Our risks Governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Events that adversely Sustained levels of occupancy and room rates The Group has in place contingency and Increasing impact domestic or can be adversely affected by events that recovery plans to enable it to respond to international travel reduce domestic or international travel.
Such major incidents or crises.
events may include acts of terrorism, war or perceived increased risk of armed conflict, epidemics, natural disasters, increased cost of travel and industrial action.
These events may be localised to a particular country, region or could have a wider international perspective, especially where a large airport, for example, is a major hub for worldwide travel.
Reduced demand will impact on revenues and operational profitability.
Political and economic Major events affecting either economic or Many of these risks are beyond the control Increasing developments political stability on a global and regional level of the Group and the time-frames for represent an exposure to the Group.
developing appropriate risk management Economic events could include recessionary approaches can often be very short.
pressures which would have an impact on the Management is continually vigilant to Groups revenues, operating costs and political and economic developments and profitability.
Political risks include changes in seeks to identify emerging risks at the the regulatory environment in which the earliest opportunity.
The Group Groups business activities operate, including implements ownership structures, internal restrictions on the repatriation of funds or controls and takes such steps available to it control over the ownership of assets.
to minimise these exposures to the greatest extent possible.
The hotel industry supply The hotel industry operates in an inherently The Group has management systems in Increasing and demand cycle cyclical market place.
A weakening of place designed to create flexibility in the demand, or an increase in market roomoperating cost base so as to optimise supply, may lead to downward pressure on operating profits in volatile trading room rates which in turn would lead to a conditions, such as the profit protection negative effect on operating performance.
plans initiated during previous market down-turns.
Execution of the Groups strategy depends on The Group has a strong service culture Stable Human resources its ability to attract, develop and retain supported by recognition systems, employees with the appropriate skills, compensation and benefits arrangements, experience and aptitude.
The Group has appropriate systems for recruitment, reward and compensation and performance management.
Labour relations are actively managed on a regional and local basis.
Management agreements An element of the Groups strategy The Group has developed a management Increasing is to selectively increase the number of team in the Middle East region that has the management contracts to operate hotels necessary skills and resources to pursue owned by third-parties, primarily focusing on this element of the Groups strategy.
In this regard, the structured process for acquiring new Group faces competition from established contracts has been implemented and a global and regional brands.
Successful priority is to ensure that the critical roles execution of this strategy will depend on are filled and operational management is the Groups ability to identify suitable integrated into the Group system.
management opportunities, secure contracts on suitable contractual terms and ensure that contractual commitments are met and retained going forward.
Joint ventures and The Group has entered into a number of joint For these joint ventures, the Group has Stable subsidiaries with minority ventures in certain markets and is therefore appointed representatives who are shareholders subject to the risk of non-performance on the assigned responsibilities to manage the part of the minority partners especially when relationship with the joint venture partners the strategic objectives of the partners are not in order to enhance the alignment of fully aligned.
25 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our risks continued Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Treasury risk The Group trades in numerous international Foreign currency transactions exposure is Stable currencies but reports its financial results in primarily managed through funding of sterling.
Fluctuations in currency exchange purchases from operating income streams rates may either be accretive or dilutive to the arising in the same currency.
Interest rate Groups reported trading results and the hedges are used to manage interest rate Groups net asset value.
Unhedged interest risk to the extent that the perceived cost is rate exposures pose a risk to the Group when considered to outweigh the benefit from interest rates rise, resulting in increased costs the flexibility of variable rate borrowings.
of funding and an impact on overall financial The Group actively monitors the need and performance.
Credit risk arises from the risk timing of such hedges.
Investments in of financial loss if a financial counterparty fails short-term instruments are with to meet its contractual obligations in respect counterparties approved by the Board of its deposits or short-term investments.
taking into account the counterpartys credit rating and a maximum limit as to the amount that may be deposited.
Tax risk The Groups businesses operate in numerous The Group seeks to minimise tax risk by Stable tax jurisdictions.
Changes in tax laws in any ensuring that appropriate accounting of those jurisdictions may have adverse systems, processes and internal controls consequences on the Groups profits.
are in place to ensure that taxes are Similarly the Groups interpretation and calculated accurately and paid on a application of various tax laws may be timely basis, in compliance with tax challenged.
Tax authorities in many legislation.
A co-operative approach is jurisdictions are increasing their focus on undertaken in respect of provision of corporate tax affairs in order to maximise information to tax authorities during tax tax receipts.
audits and investigations, and external tax advisors are engaged in each tax jurisdiction where necessary to advise on such matters, and to give guidance on the implementation of any changes in tax legislation.
Full review of tax implications is carried out prior to undertaking any transactions involving new activities or structural changes, and external tax planning advice is obtained where appropriate.
The Board and Audit Committee receive regular updates on tax management issues.
Compliance and litigation The Group operates in many jurisdictions and The Group continues to monitor changes Increasing is exposed to the risk of non-compliance with in the regulatory environment in which increasingly complex statutory and regulatory it operates, identify its compliance requirements.
In addition the Group may be obligations and implement appropriate at risk of litigation from various parties with compliance programmes and has which it interacts, either through direct processes in place to manage the risks contractual arrangements or from the associated with its various contractual provision of services.
These include where the Group operates, particularly in comprehensive policies for ethics and emerging markets, local practices and the business conduct, anti-corruption and legal environment may be such that it is bribery, gifts and hospitality and charitable sometimes difficult for the Group to enforce donations.
There is training for its legal rights.
26 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance Our risks Governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Further information Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Safety, health and As a significant property owner and operator The Group has established and maintains Stable environment of hotels in multiple jurisdictions, the Group is health and safety and environmental exposed to a wide range of regulatory management systems that are aligned requirements and obligations concerning the with the requirements of ISO 14001 and health and safety of employees, visitors and OHSAS 18001.
By working to British guests.
Failure to implement and maintain standards, the Group is committed to sufficient controls regarding health and safety working to the highest standards of health issues could expose the Group to significant and safety and to an internationally sanctions, both civil and criminal, financial accredited system.
Details of progress penalties and reputational damage.
made in improving the Groups management systems are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 29 to 31.
Intellectual property rights Future development will, in part, be Substantial investment continues to be Stable and brands dependent on the recognition of the Groups made in protecting the Groups brands brands and perception of the values inherent from misuse and infringement, by way of in those brands.
Consistent delivery of trade mark registration and domain name product quality is vitally important to protection.
Management seeks to ensure influencing consumer preference and creating maintenance of standards by developing and maintaining value perception.
Historically strong working relationships with hotel the Group has mainly operated properties owners and undertaking regular monitoring which it owns.
The trend towards managing of service delivery.
third-party properties, primarily in the Middle East region increases the risk that product quality may not be delivered in accordance with the Groups standards.
This may increase the Groups exposure to litigation, increase risks to reputation, reduce revenues and become an inhibiting factor on ongoing development.
Property ownership The Groups strategy is to be both owner The Group continues to develop property Stable and manager of hotel properties.
Growth of specific asset management plans which the Groups portfolio of owned assets is focus on the capital requirements of each dependent on the availability of suitable property in terms of regular maintenance development sites, acquisitions and access and product enhancement.
A limit on such opportunities may rigorous management systems to monitor have a negative impact on future operational major capital projects to ensure they are profitability.
Property ownership requires properly managed and delivered on time ongoing investment in the form of and within budgeted parameters.
preventative maintenance, refurbishment, significant capital expenditure and product development.
There is also the possible loss of capital due to uninsured events and reductions in asset values as a result of demographic changes in the markets in which the properties are located.
Insurance Not all risks are insured, either because the The Groups insurance requirements are Stable cover is not available in the market or that regularly reviewed to ensure that the cover cover is not available on commercially viable obtained is appropriate to its risk profile terms.
The Group is exposed to the risk of and after taking into account the level of cover not being continually available.
retained risk the Board considers to be Availability may be influenced by factors appropriate, relative to the cost of cover outside the Groups control, which could available in the market place.
Insurance reduce the markets underwriting capacity, covers are arranged with a variety of breadth of policy coverage or simply make the insurers to ensure that arrangements are cost of cover too expensive.
The Group could not overly concentrated on a limited be exposed to uninsured third-party claims, number of carriers.
Choice of insurance loss of revenue or reduction of fixed asset carriers is dependent on satisfaction of a values which may, in turn, have an adverse number of relevant factors including a effect on Group profitability, cash flows and review of the insurers security ratings.
ability to satisfy banking covenants.
27 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Our risks continued Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Status Information Technology In order to maintain its competitiveness within The Group invests in systems that are tried Increasing systems and infrastructure the market place the Group will need to and tested so that as much operational ensure its IT systems deliver the necessary resilience as possible, cost considerations trading platforms and provide management permitting, can be obtained.
Investment is with accurate and timely information.
made in robust infrastructure technology to provide a reliable operating platform.
Crisis management and disaster recovery plans are in place for business critical systems.
Management regularly reviews IT requirements and risks to prioritise implementation of changes and improvements.
Data privacy A significant proportion of the Groups During the last year the Group has Increasing operating revenue is received from customers committed significant resources to through credit card transactions and the achievement and maintenance of the Group has an obligation to keep secure necessary IT infrastructure, operating customers credit card and other personal controls and training associated with details.
Non-compliance with data privacy data privacy and PCI-DSS.
regulations, which differ by jurisdiction, could result in fines and or other damages being incurred.
Additionally, the payment card industry requires the Group to comply with data security standards PCI-DSS as a condition in credit card merchant agreements.
Failure to comply with these standards could result in contractual penalties and withdrawal of credit card payment facilities.
28 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
