Risks and uncertainties This section highlights the principal risks that Actively managing potential risks affect the Company, together with the key mitigating activities in place to manage those Risk management process risks.
This does not represent a comprehensive Overall Board responsibility by Risk and Assurance Functions list of all of the risks that the Company faces, but focuses on those that are currently considered to be of most concern.
Regular risk workshops by business function The processes that are used to identify and manage risks are described in the Internal control and risk management statement on pages 30 and 31.
Risks identified, assessed and prioritised Risks mapped to controls Residual risks prioritised Confirmed with currently in place for mitigation Executive and Board Existing controls enforced Suggested action plans and tested agreed to bridge gaps Remedial action plans implemented Options for controls identified and costed Executive held accountable Plans approved by Executive and Board Market risks Risk description Mitigating activities Pricing and market changes External influences, such as changes in the Mitchells & Butlers business is focused on the general economic climate or competitor long-term potential of the eating-out market.
activity, could have a detrimental effect on The Company owns sites across the UK with customers spending patterns and therefore a wide spectrum of customer offers targeted the Companys revenue, profitability and at different consumer groups and leisure consequently the value of its assets.
This range allows the Company to respond to changes in consumer expenditure either by flexing our offerings or by substituting a different brand at a particular location.
This activity is supported by dedicated Pricing and Revenue Management and Asset Planning teams which analyse and evaluate a range of information including that in respect of competitors.
Consumer taste and brand management Social and demographic changes are driving On a regular basis, a brand strategy team the long-term growth in eating-out while at the meets involving marketers, operators and same time leading to a steady decline in the finance as part of a structured programme sales of on-trade drinks without food.
These to continuously improve existing brands and changes, together with other developments to develop new customer offers.
This process in consumer taste may reduce the appeal of is co-ordinated with the capital expenditure Mitchells & Butlers brands to its customers, programme to ensure that investment is taking especially if the Company fails to anticipate place in support of customers changing needs.
and identify these changes and respond to them adequately and promptly.
The Company uses an online guest satisfaction survey to collect customer feedback.
This feedback together with the results of research studies is monitored and evaluated by a dedicated customer insight team to ensure that the relevance to their customers of the Companys brands is maintained.
18 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Operational risks Risk description Mitigating activities Cost of goods price increases Increases in the price of goods for resale Mitchells & Butlers leverages its scale to drive as a result of increases in global demand and competitive cost advantage and collaborates uncertainty of supply in producing nations with suppliers to increase efficiencies in the can have a significant impact on the cost supply chain.
The fragmented nature of the base consequently impacting margins.
food supply industry on the world commodity markets gives the Company the opportunity to source products from a number of alternative suppliers in order to drive down cost.
The Company continually evolves the composition of menus and retail prices in order to optimise value to the customer as well as profits for the Company.
Property strategy and Mitchells & Butlers strategy is to increase its The Companys dedicated Acquisitions and acquisition targets number of restaurants to drive further scale Asset Planning team employs a rigorous advantage and provide strong incremental project appraisal process in respect of returns.
However, it may not be possible investments, using external advisers where to identify and acquire suitable sites on necessary.
Post-investment performance of acceptable terms and investments may acquired or converted sites investments is not perform as anticipated.
People planning and development Mitchells & Butlers business has a strong Remuneration packages are benchmarked customer focus, and as such it is important to ensure that they remain competitive and that it is able to attract, retain, develop and a talent review process is used to provide motivate the best people with the right structured succession planning.
The Company also makes significant investment in training to ensure that its people have the right skills to perform their jobs successfully.
Furthermore an employee survey is conducted bi-annually to establish employee satisfaction and engagement and compare it with other companies as well as previous surveys.
Where appropriate, changes in working practices are made in response to the findings of these surveys.
Energy price increases Mitchells & Butlers is a large commercial The energy procurement strategy seeks user of gas and electricity.
There is a risk that to reduce the risk of cost increases and costs increase because of global increases uncertainty over energy prices by a rolling in demand and uncertainty of supply in programme of short and medium-term energy producing nations.
A dedicated Energy Management team is responsible for optimising energy usage across the organisation by promoting energy efficient working practices via training and educational programmes and by the installation of energy efficient equipment.
Mitchells & Butlers relies on its food and drink The Company has in place crisis and continuity Business continuity and supply chain and the key IT systems underlying plans that are tested and refreshed regularly.
crisis management the business to serve its customers efficiently and effectively.
Supply chain interruption, IT system failure or crises such as terrorist activity or the threat of disease pandemic might restrict sales or reduce operational effectiveness.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 19 Risks and uncertainties continued Finance risks Risk description Mitigating activities Borrowing covenants There are risks that borrowing covenants are The Company maintains headroom against breached because of circumstances such as: these risks.
The finance team conducts daily cash forecasting with periodic reviews at the i A change in the economic climate leading Treasury Committee, the roles of which to reduced cash inflows, or include ensuring that the Board Treasury ii A material change in the valuation of the Policy is adhered to, monitoring its operation property portfolio.
and agreeing appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board.
In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant compliance is performed and frequent communication is maintained with the Securitisation Trustee.
Pension fund deficit There is a risk that the pension fund deficit Mitchells & Butlers maintains a close dialogue increases because of poor investment with the Trustees of the pension schemes and performance, lower long-term bond yields three of the 12 Trustees are appointed by the or increased life expectancy, leading to Company.
The Company has made significant unexpected increases in funding requirements additional contributions to reduce the funding by the Company.
The funding levels and contribution valuation carried out as at 31 March 2010 requirements will be reviewed again at the resulted in a deficit of 400m.
next triennial valuation as at March 2013.
Regulatory risks Risk description Mitigating activities A major health and safety failure could Mitchells & Butlers maintains a robust Failure to operate safely lead to illness, injury or loss of life or programme of health and safety checks and legally significant damage to the Companys both within its restaurants and pubs or a brands reputation.
and throughout the supply chain.
The dedicated Safety Assurance team uses a number of technical partners including food technologists, microbiologists and allergy specialists to ensure that our food procedures are safe.
Regular independent audits of trading sites are performed to ensure that procedures are followed and that appropriate standards are maintained.
Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are subject to regular safety and quality audits.
Comprehensive health and safety training programmes are in place.
20 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Governance In this section 22 Board of Directors 24 Directors report 27 Directors responsibilities statement 28 Corporate governance statement 32 Audit Committee report 34 Report on Directors remuneration Find out more online: www.
com ourbrands Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012 21
