DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Risk management and internal control It is in the nature of Mondis business that we are exposed to risks and uncertainties which may have an impact on our future performance and financial results, as well as on our ability to meet certain social and environmental objectives.
On an annual basis, the DLC executive committee and Boards conduct a formal systematic review of the most significant risks and uncertainties and the Groups responses to those risks.
These risks are assessed against pre-determined risk tolerance limits, established by the Boards.
In addition, the DLC audit committee reviews each of the principal risks in detail over the course of the year.
Additional risk reviews are undertaken on an ad-hoc basis for significant investment decisions and when changing business conditions dictate.
The Boards are responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective system of internal control.
The DLC executive committee, mandated by the Boards, has established a Group-wide system of internal control to manage Group risks.
The DLC audit committee has oversight of the Group-wide risk management system and of those risks which fall outside the remit of the DLC sustainable development committee which oversees all sustainability risks and the management thereof.
The Group-wide system, which complies with corporate governance codes in South Africa and the UK, supports the Boards in discharging their responsibility for ensuring that the wide range of risks associated with Mondis diverse international operations is effectively managed.
Risk management The Boards risk management framework addresses all significant strategic, sustainability, financial, operational and compliance-related risks which could undermine the Groups ability to achieve its business objectives in a sustainable manner.
Our risk management framework is designed to be flexible, to ensure that it remains relevant at all levels of the business given the diversity of our locations, markets and production processes: and dynamic, to ensure that it remains current and responsive to changing business conditions.
Clear accountability for risk management in the day-to-day activities of our Group is a key performance criterion for our line managers, who are provided with appropriate support through Group policies and procedures.
Risk management is embedded in all decision making processes, with holistic risk assessments conducted as part of all investment decisions.
The requisite risk and control capability is assured through board and executive committee challenge and appropriate management selection and skills development.
Continuous monitoring of risk and control processes across all key risk areas provides the basis for regular reports to management, the DLC executive committee and the Boards.
Internal control The Boards receive assurance from the DLC audit committee, which derives its information in part from regular internal and external audit reports of the Groups risk and internal controls.
The finance heads of the business units provide six-monthly confirmation that financial control frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
The Groups internal audit function is responsible for providing independent assurance to the DLC executive committee, the DLC audit committee and the Boards on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management process and for evaluating the internal control environment Mondi Group 57 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 57 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Risk management and internal control continued to ensure controls are adequately designed and are operating efficiently and effectively.
Actions are taken to correct internal control deficiencies as they are identified.
Our system of internal control, embedded in all key operations, is designed to provide reasonable rather than absolute assurance that our business objectives will be achieved, within risk tolerance levels defined by the Boards.
Regular management reporting provides a balanced assessment of key risks and controls and is an important component of the Boards assurance.
Key elements of Mondis system of internal control are: a simple and focused business strategy, restricting potential risk exposure: a clearly-defined organisation structure with established and reasonable division of responsibilities: Group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies and procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour: annual risk-profiling by local businesses and the Group to identify, monitor and manage significant risks, with the results discussed at business reviews and internal control, audit and risk meetings: a continuous review of operating performance: a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly results, annual budgets and periodic forecasts, monitored by the Boards: approval by the Boards of all major investments, with proposals being subject to rigorous strategic and commercial examination: a centrally co-ordinated internal audit programme, using internal and external resources to support the Boards in ensuring a sound control environment: completion by business unit management of a six-monthly internal control assessment, confirming compliance with Group policies and procedures, detailing controls in operation and listing any weaknesses: and assurance activities covering the key business risks summarised and reported annually to the Boards, the DLC audit committee and the DLC sustainable development committee.
Swiecie, Poland Lightweight recycled containerboard production line 58 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 58 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Principal risks and uncertainties We believe that we have effective systems and controls in place to manage the key risks identified below within the risk tolerance levels established by the Boards.
Our industry and operations Competitive environment in which we operate The industry in which we operate is highly We monitor industry developments in terms of changes in capacity as well as competitive and subject to significant trends and developments in our own product range and potential substitutes.
New capacity additions are A flexible and responsive approach to market and operating conditions and usually in large increments which, our strategic focus on low-cost production in growing markets, with consistent combined with product substitution investment in our operating capacity serve to mitigate this risk.
towards lighter weight products and alternative packaging solutions and In 2012, the acquisitions of Nordenia and the corrugated packaging operations in increasing environmental considerations, Germany and the Czech Republic, as well as the disposal of Aylesford Newsprint, have an impact on the supply-demand further position Mondi in our selected strategic growth areas.
balance and hence on market prices.
Cost and availability of a sustainable supply of raw materials Fibre wood, pulp and paper for recycling All our plantations in South Africa and leased managed forests in Russia are FSC and resins account for approximately certified.
With the exception of Stambolijski, Bulgaria, all of our mills have CoC one-third of our input costs.
It is our certificates in place, ensuring that the wood procured in 2012 was from nonobjective to acquire fibre from sustainable controversial sources.
Stambolijski will be certified to FSC CoC standards in 2013 sources and to avoid the use of any illegal and currently wood supplies meet our minimum wood standards that ensure or controversial supply.
legality and non-controversial wood sources.
We constantly monitor international market prices for our other raw materials paper for recycling and resins and, where possible, have cost pass-through mechanisms in place with customers to mitigate the risk of input cost increases.
Our focus on high-quality, low-cost operations, relatively high levels of integration and access to our own fibre in Russia and South Africa further mitigate this risk.
Cost of energy and related input costs Non-fibre input costs comprise Active investment in energy related projects have significantly improved energy approximately a third of our total variable self-sufficiency and efficiency in our operations.
Increasing energy costs, and the consequential impact thereof on both chemical and transport costs, may impact our operating profit margins.
Capital intensive operations We operate large facilities, often in Our management system ensures ongoing monitoring of all operations to ensure remote locations.
The ongoing safety they meet the requisite standards and performance requirements.
We have adequate and sustainable operation of such sites is insurance in place to cover material property damage, business interruption and critical to our success.
A structured maintenance programme is in place under the auspices of our Group technical director.
Emergency preparedness and response procedures are in place and subject to periodic drills.
indd 59 2013 03 04 3:00 PM Risk management and internal control continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued The locations in which we operate Geographical risk We operate in a number of countries with We are invested in a number of geographical locations, with a strategic focus differing political, economic and legal on low-cost high-growth markets.
This geographical diversity and decentralised systems.
In some countries, such systems management structure utilising local resources in countries in which we operate are less predictable than in countries with reduces our exposure to any specific jurisdiction.
We continue to actively monitor and adapt to changes in the environments in In addition, economic risks in certain which we operate.
regions are heightened following the macroeconomic uncertainties experienced in recent years.
Our people Attraction and retention of key skills and talent The complexity of operations and Appropriate reward and retention strategies are in place to attract and retain talent geographic diversity of our Group is such across the organisation.
At more senior levels, these include share-based incentive that high-quality, experienced employees schemes as described in note 28 of the annual financial statements.
are required in all locations.
Employee and contractor safety Our employees work in potentially We are committed to achieving zero harm in the workplace.
We engage in dangerous environments where hazards extensive safety training sessions, involving employees and contractors, at all our are ever-present and must be managed.
Our Nine Safety Rules to Live By, applied across the Group, are integral to our safety strategy.
Operations conduct statutory safety committee meetings where management and employees are represented.
A risk-based approach underpins our safety and health programmes.
All business units and operations are required to have safety improvement plans in place.
It is with great regret that we report two fatalities at our operations during the year one in Finland and one in Russia.
Our total recordable case rate per 200,000 hours worked was 0.79 2011: 0.92.
60 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 60 2013 03 04 3:00 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Environmental footprint Maintaining our socioeconomic licence Our approach to product stewardship is based on the Life-Cycle Initiative set out to trade is a strategic imperative.
Our certified products carry clear and informative labelling to ensure encompasses continued access to that our customers are aware of the environmental process controls and health credible sources of fibre as described and safety assessments conducted throughout the life cycles of our products.
above, protection of HCV areas and In 2012, no incidents of non-compliance relating to the regulatory and voluntary bio-diversity, eco-efficiency of products codes we subscribe to concerning product and service information and labelling throughout their lifecycle and our carbon were recorded.
We do not convert natural forests, riparian areas, wetlands or protected areas into plantations.
HCV areas are identified and preserved or enhanced, as is biological diversity.
In Russia we have set aside 522,260 hectares for conservation 25% of our landholding and 76,398 hectares in South Africa 25% of our landholding.
We use biomass energy sources such as black liquor as an alternative to fossil fuels at all of our mills.
Some 58% of Mondis fuel consumption for material operations comes from biomass and a number of our operations are completely energy self-sufficient.
Governance risks We operate in a number of legal The Corporate governance report on pages 66 to 79 provides a clear overview of jurisdictions and non-compliance with legal the Groups legal and governance risk management and compliance.
and governance requirements in these jurisdictions could expose the Group to significant risk if not adequately managed.
Financial risks Our trading and financing activities Our approach to financial risk management is described in notes 37 and 38 of the expose the Group to financial risks annual financial statements.
that, if left unmanaged, could adversely impact current or future earnings.
These risks relate to the currencies in which we conduct our activities, interest rate and liquidity risks as well as exposure to customer credit risk.
