com Group PLC Business Review Annual Report 2012 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The tables below summarise the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Financial risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation significant Financial institutions may reduce the quantum of The Group continues to focus on building strong lending and or tighten their acceptance criteria for relationships with providers to ensure the Group is worsening in financial markets customers seeking to obtain credit.
Financial able to provide solutions to the needs of providers institutions may reduce their reliance on the retail and to maximise the opportunities for providers to market to obtain funds or may have lower cost acquire customers in a cost effective manner.
funds available from other sources including the Bank of England to support their business activities.
Providers may increase their focus on customer retention rather than acquisition.
These factors may reduce commissions available to price comparison websites.
Reduction Providers may consolidate, withdraw their The Group continues to focus on building strong of providers products from price comparison websites or relationships with providers to ensure the Group is reduce their customer acquisition activity via able to provide solutions to the needs of providers price comparison websites.
This may reduce and to maximise the opportunities for providers to competition for business, customer choice, acquire customers in a cost effective manner.
Group revenue and the customer proposition of price comparison websites.
Investment in significant investments in new products Investments in new areas typically leverage existing new areas and or and services or new geographies fail expertise and experience built up over many years.
Failure to generate anticipated Capital requirements are relatively low and acquisitions revenue growth, synergies and or cost savings investment is managed in stages such that it is not from significant acquisitions could lead to nally committed until there is good visibility of a significant goodwill and intangible asset return.
significant acquisitions are approved by the impairments.
Board following pre-acquisition due diligence.
Post-acquisition performance of significant acquisitions is closely monitored to ensure corrective action can be taken in the event of deviations from expected performance.
Financial services The business model in financial services The Group has a team of regulatory specialists and other markets or other lines of business may be who work with the business to ensure that it regulation compromised by changes to existing remains compliant with existing regulation and regulation or the introduction of new regulation.
The Group has embraced regulation to date and shares the vision of the regulators generally to make the market more transparent to the end customer.
Economic Reduction in visitors and revenue from The Group continues to focus on building a wide environment a recession as customers seek to reduce range of market leading services to meet levels of discretionary expenditure.
Customers seeking to reduce levels of discretionary expenditure will also be looking to obtain best value from compulsory products and services.
The diversication of the Group both in the number of verticals that it operates in and the range of products and services it provides in each vertical should lessen the impact of a recession upon the Group although it cannot entirely mitigate against it.
com Group PLC 27 Bu Bussiin neessss Rev Over iew view Annual Report 2012 Operational risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Competitive Loss of market share and erosion of margins The Group continues to focus on building market environment from increased competition.
leading products to improve its proposition to customers.
This includes investment in customer retention tools and technology including CRM initiatives which deliver additional features and functionality to customers.
Brand perception Reduction in customer loyalty with existing Continued investment in television advertising and reputation customers and an inability to attract new reinforced through press activity will maintain the customers if the business fails to maintain its Group in customers minds.
Rigorous checking of position as a leading price comparison website the website through audit and review will maintain or if its reputation is negatively impacted by any the accuracy of the information displayed.
event, such as the loss or misuse of customer Rigorous use of internal controls and testing of the personal data.
Groups systems together with infrastructure investment will ensure the integrity and robustness of the Groups systems.
Business continuity, Failure to provide adequate service levels to The Group maintains two separate data centres capacity and customers or maintain revenue generating with n 1 redundancy in relation to its core functionality services.
infrastructure to ensure that service is maintained of IT and systems in the event of a disaster at the primary data centre.
Developed software is rigorously tested and the Group operates a robust release process which mitigates the likelihood of software being released into a live environment without being fully tested.
Loss of key Loss of key management resulting in a lack of Existing key management, new hires or management necessary expertise or continuity to execute management teams that are acquired through strategy.
acquisitions are tied in through attractive equity and other incentive packages and rewarding career structures.
In addition, succession plans have been developed or are being developed for key members of the management team including through acquisitions which are regularly reviewed.
Reliance on Reduction in gross margin through reduction The Group will continue to invest in sustainable search engine in revenue derived from search engine search engine optimisation activities which adhere natural listings optimisation activities.
Changing customer Reduction in customer loyalty with existing The Group continues to focus on building market behaviour customers and an inability to attract new leading products to improve its proposition to customers if the business fails to adapt to customers.
The Group continues to engage with changing customer behaviour, such as the customers to understand any changes in the way increasing use of mobile devices to access the they utilise the Groups services.
internet, apps and social media.
