riSK ManaGeMent the Group has an established risk the Groups risk Dashboard populated with the following key risk areas are those that management methodology in place which material risks identified from operating site level the Group feels could have the most serious identifies, manages and mitigates risks, upwards sets the agenda for a rolling review by adverse effect on achieving the Groups together with a comprehensive internal the Board and audit committee of the Groups five strategic priorities, its performance and control framework and appropriate assurance material strategic, operating, financial and reputation.
the relative importance of some processes.
compliance risks and the associated controls, of these risks has changed during 2012 as monitoring and assurance processes.
Where necessary, During 2012, this approach to risk management monitoring and controls to manage risk have was reviewed and further developed to the risk management processes seek to been adjusted to ensure that the risks continue adopt a holistic risk Dashboard approach capture, manage and mitigate both existing and to be managed within acceptable limits.
to mapping identified risks in the context emerging risks that could impact the Groups of the Groups controls, monitoring and immediate and long-term performance and assurance systems.
Whilst they do not fully eliminate risks, they facilitate mitigation to an acceptable level within the context of the business environment in which the Group operates.
RISk MITIGATION Strategy and strategic planning risks Delivery of Group Strategy in pursuit of its strategic goals and priorities, the Group continues to seek out growth the Board approves and monitors strategy, consulting external advisers and experts opportunities both organically and through acquisition.
Within its delegated authority, the executive committee and Divisional management implement strategic plans and regularly report performance.
capital investments to drive organic growth carry inherent risks in execution and the delivery of anticipated benefits.
processes are in place to ensure a structured approach to strategy, three-year plans, budgets, investment approval as well as monitoring and reporting performance.
acquisitions can be complex and challenging and there is a risk that significant or costly issues arise which have not been identified in pre-acquisition due diligence nor identified acquisitions and capital investment are managed through an established process with in commercial business planning.
the Group could also be subject to inherited appropriate monitoring and reporting.
liabilities as a result of an acquisition.
Technology Obsolescence One of the Groups strategic priorities is that it aims to be innovative, differentiated and the Group has a technology pipeline which is regularly reviewed by Divisional high value-added.
the Group is frequently in competition with existing technology executives, the Group executive and the Board.
each Division has a chief technical Officer who monitors technology, business unforeseen unmitigated technology obsolescence would impact the Groups business.
developments and future regulations to ensure that the Business is in a strong position to optimise future events.
r&D investment is maintained in new improving technologies through the Groups research and development facilities.
Where Group products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed in tandem with the customer to maintain leading-edge solutions.
the Group seeks to secure ip protection, to the fullest extent possible, for the existing portfolio of products and external advisers manage this protection globally.
Recruiting, maintaining and motivating high-quality staff One of the Groups strategic priorities is to find, keep and develop the right people.
the Group has a Hr Director and a network of Hr professionals within the business the Group relies on the quality and commitment of its people, from those working along with human resource policies and processes to manage the risks relating to its at a site level, through site management to the Divisional and Group executives.
these cover areas including reward and recognition, health and safety, talent Many of the Groups processes require a high degree of skill and experience and management, skills assessment and development, performance management and loss of these employees to other markets or competitors would impact the business.
the Board and executive hold annual talent management reviews.
in 2012 the Group launched a Graduate leadership programme.
this programme develops individuals and aims to create the business leaders of the future.
32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements RISk MITIGATION Operational risks Treasury Risks the Groups global nature means that it is exposed to uncertainties in the financial the Groups treasury function, treasury policy and guidelines provide strict controls markets and the banking sector which heightens the Groups foreign exchange, interest on the selection of banks and cash management.
additional actions have been taken rate, credit and liquidity risks as well as the risk of bank failure impacting the Groups cash.
to respond to the euro crisis.
Quality of Contracts ineffective contract risk management could result in significant liabilities for the Group the Group legal policy requires review of high value or high risk contracts by and damage customer relationships and Group reputation.
this policy is supported by additional guidance documents and checklists.
Where the contracts do not fall under the Group legal policy, the Divisions are responsible for managing their contractual risk and do so, pulling from the knowledge they have obtained through the Groups contract risk management training under the responsible Business programme further information available on page 18.
IT Risks in order to meet the Groups strategic objectives the viability of its underlying the Group has established it systems in place and Group and Divisional it teams it infrastructure is essential.
if a critical business system was to fail or the Group to manage the it risks.
lost critical data and information, the Business would be impacted.
Product quality, safety and liability products used in applications for which they were not intended or inadequate quality Many of the Group products are designed to customer specifications.
control systems overcommitting on specifications could result in products not meeting specifications, which could lead to significant liabilities.
Over 90% of the Groups manufacturing output is accredited to iSO 9001 and the Groups quality management systems and training help ensure that Morgan crucibles products meet or exceed customer requirements and national international standards.
contracts relating to products used in potential high-risk applications are subject to mandatory legal review.
the Group monitors legislation and regulation to manage future risks.
the Group insurance programme includes product liability insurance.
Single Point Exposures the Group has a number of potential single point exposure risks, these include: the Group executive and Divisional executive teams are responsible for monitoring Single point supplier: a significant interruption of a key internal or external supply and managing these single point exposures.
this involves monitoring and reviewing could impact business continuity.
supply chains internal and external, dual multiple sourcing of materials or strategic Single point profit: a key site exposed to a strike, a natural catastrophe or serious stock, fire protection systems, creating and testing disaster recovery plans, maintaining incident such as fire could impact business continuity.
product quality and customer relationships.
Single point customer: the unmitigated loss of a major customer could have an impact on Group profit.
the Group insurance programme includes business interruption cover.
Environment, health and safety EHS risks the Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around the globe.
a failure Further detail of the eHS programme in place to manage these risks is available on in the Groups eHS procedures could lead to environmental damage or lead to injury pages 21 to 24. or death of individuals, with a consequential impact on operations and raising the risk of regulatory action being taken against the Group.
any such action could result in litigation, resultant damages and damage to reputation.
Compliance and ethics risks Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation the Groups global operations must comply with a range of national and international the Group monitors changes in legislation and regulation, pro-actively modifying laws and regulations including those related to bribery and corruption, human rights, existing controls and compliance frameworks.
the Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour a failure to comply with any applicable laws regulations could result in civil or criminal and this commitment is set out in the Groups core Values Statement and ethics policy.
liabilities, individual or corporate fines and could also result in debarment from Global compliance training on a number of compliance subjects is provided through the government related contracts.
Groups responsible Business programme, full information is available on pages 18 to 20. the Group has an ethics Hotline, operated by expolink, which enables employees and other stakeholders who are aware of, or suspect, misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse of Group assets or violations of any Group policy, to report these confidentially.
External risks Changing political, economic and social environment the Group operates in a range of markets and geographies around the world Key risks and events are regularly tracked at a Divisional and Group level, with and can be affected by political, economic, social or regulatory developments contingency plans in place to manage the changing situations.
or instability such as the euro crisis, arab Spring and chinas slowdown.
Many of these events impact local markets and some have a worldwide impact.
Financial and treasury controls limit exposure to foreign currency, interest rate, credit and liquidity risk.
the Groups broad market geographic spread helps to mitigate the effects of political and economic crises.
Mitigation plans are in place to manage the financial and business impact of the eurozone crisis and any large currency swings.
these include not only cash and banking but also operational issues in the businesses.
the Group maintains a carefully managed debt facility to ensure that its debt ratio is within acceptable market tolerances.
Pension Funding the Group participates in defined pension arrangements which are exposed to active management of the pension scheme assets is the primary means of mitigation.
fluctuating interest rates, investment values and inflation.
this coupled with the this comprises management both internally within the Group but also externally increased longevity of members could result in funding burdens on the Group through corporate actuaries and professional advisers.
there is regular Board review of the Groups pension position and strategy in the changing global environment.
Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 33
