Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Risk and risk management The Group has a well established governance structure Risk assessment and review with internal control and risk management systems.
The risk management process t provides a framework to identify, assess and manage risks, both positive and negative, to the Groups overall strategy and the contribution of its individual component divisions.
Contractual t gives business unit management formal tools to identify and manage risks in their day-to-day operations.
t allows Group Executive management to identify and Political and manage the risks that are likely to have a more significant Economic regulatory conditions impact on the financial results and strategy and share and austerity common issues and solutions across the Group.
Credit Mergers and risk t allows the Board to full its governance responsibilities acquisitions by making a balanced and understandable assessment Currency of the operation of the risk management process and its outputs.
Insurance Responsibilities and actions and claims Fuel The Board: costs t has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
M MH H ML t maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
PROBABILITY t has put in place an organisational structure with formally 1.
Mitigating action dened lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and clear operating processes.
The Audit Committee: Management t has specic responsibility for reviewing the Take mitigating actions and implement systems to manage effectiveness of the Groups internal control the likelihood and impact of the risk.
Identify an individual and risk management systems.
with responsibility for each risk.
t is responsible for the identication, assessment and management of risk, including actions taken Monitoring and control and processes adopted to do so.
Risks are considered on a monthly basis at divisional level and formally updated twice a year.
Management is t reviews and approves all financial information published encouraged to review the risk registers from other divisions by the Group.
to identify common issues and potential solutions.
t reviews the internal audit programme, considers major findings of the internal audit investigations and reviews Each divisional register, including the Group function register, managements financial reporting and risk management.
is consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
Risk review process The Group Executive Committee reviews the Group Each division, plus the Group function, is required to make Risk Register twice a year, followed by the Group Audit a formal review of risks to their business objectives, assess Committee.
The Audit Committee reports in turn to the impact and likelihood of the risk occurring and put the main Board.
in place mitigating actions, processes and systems to The internal audit function has responsibility for the manage the risk.
monitoring of the risk management and internal control systems.
Internal Audit reports to management and the Risks Audit Committee on the extent to which internal controls Identify risks to business objectives on a bottom up basis: are adequately designed and implemented.
risks are described and categorised into Operational, Strategic and Financial risks in order to help define their precise nature and potential impact on the business.
Assessment Assess and quantify the potential impact on business objectives and determine the likelihood of the risk occurring.
This is done on a before and after basis, where the impact of management controls is assessed in relation to the probability and severity of a risk.
com 43 IMPACT ML M MH H Business review Principal risks of 2012 Risks Principal risks and uncertainties Outlined below are risks that have the potential to affect the Groups performance in a material way, which are monitored through the risk management processes.
Potential Risks Assessment Management impact During 2012, the Group focused on the following key areas of risk: Economic conditions and austerity Revenues in the Bus, Coach and Rail The Group seeks to mitigate these risks High businesses in the UK and Spain may be through proactive cost control, revenue difficult economic conditions currently affected by lower passenger demand: management systems, the careful exist in Europe and North America.
Whilst there is also some positive risk that the economic modelling of new and existing some of the Groups businesses have Group would benefit from the prospect of contracts, including sensitivities around naturally defensive characteristics, some modal shift towards its forms of transport.
expected growth rates, and through of the more discretionary parts of the In North America for example, school sharing risk with contracting parties.
business may be adversely affected boards may reduce their transportation by reduced economic activity.
budgets, or look to shift provision to contractors like National Express.
In Spain, the division may be affected by lower disposable income, sustained high unemployment, lower council budgets and low GDP growth.
However, they too may benefit from the outsourcing of further urban bus operations.
Political and regulatory Changes in political and regulatory The risk is reduced by maintaining close High environments can have a significant relationships with key stakeholders and The Groups businesses are subject to impact on regulated public transport ensuring that the economic advantages numerous laws in the jurisdictions in which operators, from adding significant cost of our business models are fully they operate, regulating the operation to changing the fundamental nature understood and considered.
of concessions, safety procedures, of a market.
For example: equipment specications, employment In the longer term, the Group can mitigate requirements, environmental procedures Changes in UK Government policy have risk by diversifying its operations into and other operating issues.
resulted in material decreases in subsidies other geographies.
paid in 2012 for senior citizen discounts and fuel rebates.
The UK Department for Transport has suspended the rail franchising process.
The Spanish Government is considering the imposition of a fee on new concessions and other regulatory changes.
The following risks are key ongoing risks within the business: Fuel cost Fuel costs constitute approximately 9% The Group seeks to mitigate risks of Medium of the Groups costs and, consequently, increases in fuel costs by entering into fuel All of the Groups businesses are exposed to the extent that price increases cannot swaps and forward purchase contracts to fuel costs primarily Ultra Low Sulphur be passed on to customers, increases in line with the Groups hedging strategy Diesel for buses and coaches.
Fuel in fuel costs will affect profitability.
discussed on page 23. prices are subject to significant volatility due to economic, political and climate circumstances.
Insurance and claims There is a risk that a successful claim or Throughout the business, a strong Medium series of successful claims may result in safety culture prevails, led by the Board The Groups policy is to self-insure substantial higher charges to profit and Safety and Environmental Committee.
a number of potential claims within cash outow than expected.
Where claims arise, they are managed its business.
by experienced claims handlers and professional advice is obtained in order to evaluate and minimise costs to the Group.
It has also reduced self-insurance values and increased external market coverage.
44 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements Potential Risks Assessment Management impact Credit risk Payment terms and cash collections in Receivables in each business are closely Medium North America are extremely good.
monitored, based on robust and thorough As contractual operations, the North documentation: provisions are then made American and Spanish businesses are In Spain, during 2011 receivables balance where appropriate on a prudent basis for exposed to the risk that customers are increased as a result of issues related a certain level of non-collection.
Additional either late or unable to pay sums owed to local and federal elections, as well as contractual terms for interest accrual to the Group.
In June 2012 all long and repayment of outstanding balances term outstanding amounts were settled have been agreed with major debtors through a federal Government credit where necessary.
facility and the level of outstanding debt is back to normal levels and continues to fall.
Currency Foreign currency movements impact the The Group uses its overseas currency Low profit, balance sheet and cash ows of the debt and currency swaps to reduce the The Groups exposure to overseas Group.
During 2012 the Euro depreciated impact and mitigate the risk.
In addition, earnings through its Spanish and North against Sterling, although the US dollar management has exibility to adjust American operations creates a risk remained relatively stable.
The Group its Group capital allocation decisions that movement in exchange rates may swapped some of its debt during the to focus on its highly cash generative adversely impact translation of profit and year to access Euro-denominated debt, UK businesses.
cash ows together with Group gearing.
as well as maintaining Sterling bonds The Board has stress tested for the and US dollar finance leases.
impact of a break-up of the Eurozone or sovereign debt default on the Groups ability to fund and operate, and has identied appropriate plans for such scenarios.
Acquisitions The Group acquired Petermann for $200 Thorough due diligence was carried out, Low million in May.
Its return on that investment as well as dedicating resource for the Risk of failing to execute and then is dependent on properly integrating transition and integration of Petermann realise the expected returns from the the operations, retaining customers and operations and customers.
employees and realising planned cost and financial metrics show the acquisition savings and synergies.
is on track to meet expected returns.
Contractual An inherent risk in contract bidding is The Group seeks to mitigate the risk High that bid assumptions might prove to be through careful economic modelling of Much of the Groups business is incorrect.
If the Groups significant bid new contracts, and by sharing revenue secured through winning contracts assumptions prove to be incorrect, this risk with the awarding body: for example and concessions, particularly in its could have an adverse effect on results with the DfT in UK Rail.
North American school bus and Transit of the operations and the Groups business, in Spain and in UK Rail.
