Principal risks and uncertainties Economic environment Eurozone Vehicle holding costs The operation of a public Impact Impact Impact There is a link in our business The Group operates in and The overall holding cost of a company involves a between the demand for our generates 35% of its revenue in vehicle is affected by the pricing products and services and the levels Spain, where the functional levels of new vehicles and the number of risks and of economic activity in the currency is the Euro.
The risks of disposal value of vehicles sold.
countries in which the Group trading in this country are assessed The Group purchases substantially uncertainties across a full operates.
The high level of in the Economic Environment risk.
all of its eet from suppliers with operational gearing in our business Of the Groups net assets, 294m no agreement for the repurchase model means that changes in 2011 - 366m are located in range of commercial, of a vehicle at the end of its hire demand can lead to higher levels Spain, against which the Group life cycle.
The Group is therefore of variation in profitability.
holds 240m 2011 - 356m of operational and financial exposed to uctuations in residual Euro denominated borrowings The Group operates in Spain, values in the used vehicle market.
where austerity measures have areas.
The principal risks An increase in the holding cost of been implemented.
These There is a possibility that Spain may vehicles, if not recovered through measures could impact on future leave the Euro.
If this occurred and and uncertainties that hire rate increases, would affect trading volumes.
The underlying Spain were to reintroduce its own profitability, shareholder returns macro-economic conditions have national currency, the Group could and cash generation.
have been identied as also increased the risk of customer be materially affected by a failure, particularly in Spain, which weakening of this currency and being capable of may lead to the occurrence of higher volatility on trading results increased bad debt charges.
Local impacting the Groups net assets could depreciate while The construction industry in Spain the Groups Euro debt located in and other key markets of the the UK could appreciate.
performance over the next Group have been particularly sensitive to the downturn in the financial year are set economic climate which has led to a decline in the number of vehicles rented in recent years.
The Spanish business generates a large proportion of revenue from customers in the construction industry but is seeking to diversify its customer base across a range of market segments.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Should there be a further The Board has conducted a Risk is managed on new pricing by significant economic downturn the detailed review of the impact of negotiating xed pricing terms exible nature of the Groups possible scenarios that may arise with manufacturers a year in business model enables vehicles to from the Eurozone crisis and the advance.
Flexibility is maintained to be placed with other customers.
risks are being continually make purchases throughout the Alternatively, utilisation can be monitored.
In order to minimise the year under variable supply terms.
maintained through a combination Groups net exposure to the Flexibility in our business model of a decrease in vehicle purchases Spanish currency, regular dividend allows us to determine the period and increase in disposals, which payments of cash ow generated over which we hold a vehicle and although affecting short term from the Spanish business have therefore in the event of a decline profitability, generates cash and been implemented, and in residual values we would reduces debt levels.
consideration is being given to attempt to mitigate the impact by increasing the level of funding to ageing out our existing eet.
An economic downturn also the Spanish business from locally presents opportunities to increase denominated borrowings.
rentals to customers wishing to benefit from the Groups exible renting solutions, either due to a lack of available finance or an unwillingness to commit to long term rental or outright purchase.
No individual customer contributes more than five per cent of total revenue generated, and ongoing credit analysis is performed on new and existing customers to assess credit risk.
Northgate plc Principal risks and uncertainties 20 Annual report and accounts 2012 Competition and hire rates Access to capital IT systems Change management Impact Impact Impact Impact The Group operates in highly The Group requires capital to both The Groups business involves a The UK and Spain businesses have competitive markets with replace vehicles that have reached high volume of transactions and undertaken restructuring competitors often pursuing the end of their useful life and for the need to track assets which are programmes to improve the aggressive pricing actions to growth in the eet.
Additionally, located at numerous sites.
operational efficiency of the Group.
The market due to the level of the Groups Reliance is placed upon the proper Following the successful execution is also fragmented with numerous indebtedness, a significant functioning of IT systems for the of the programmes, the new competitors at a local and proportion of the Groups cash effective running of operations.
processes and procedures need to national level.
ow is required to service its debt Any interruption to the Groups IT be embedded into the business obligations.
In order to continue to As our business is highly systems could have a materially and applied consistently, otherwise access its credit facilities the Group operationally geared, any increase adverse affect on its business.
the Group will not be in a position needs to remain in compliance with or decrease in hire rates will impact to achieve its objectives, and its financial covenants throughout profit and shareholder returns to a profitability and shareholder the term of its facilities.
bank facilities are due to mature in September 2014 with other facilities having varying maturity dates up to April 2019.
There is a risk that the Group cannot successfully extend its facilities past this date.
Failure to access sufficient nancing or meet financial covenants could potentially adversely affect the prospects of the Group.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation As the Group is focused on Financial covenants are reviewed Prior to any material systems The Board and its advisors maximising return on capital, all on a monthly basis in conjunction changes being implemented the conducted detailed reviews of the hire rates must exceed certain with cash ow forecasts to ensure Board approves a project plan.
The restructuring strategy before it hurdle rates.
If there is a project is then led by a member of commenced, and the results of shortfall in cash generated from the executive team, with an each project continue to be Our current pricing strategy is operations and or available under ongoing implementation review monitored at Board level.
The new focused on charging the correct its credit facilities the Group would being carried out by internal audit processes and procedures have price for the service provided and all reduce its capital requirements.
and external consultants where been communicated to all ancillary services offered which will appropriate.
The objective is always employees and risks arising are attract customers for whom exible The Group believes that its existing to minimise the risk that business continually monitored and rental is the most appropriate facilities provide adequate interruption could occur as a result mitigating actions are taken solution but not necessarily the resources for present requirements.
This means that the The impact of access to capital on Group will be better positioned Additionally, the Group has an the wider risk of going concern is against solely price led competition appropriate business continuity considered on page 19. going forward.
plan in the event of interruption arising from an IT systems failure.
Northgate plc Principal risks and uncertainties 21 Annual report and accounts 2012
