com 43 Principal risks and uncertainties The risks and uncertainties described below represent those which the Directors consider to be the most significant to delivering the Groups strategy.
However, these principal risks and uncertainties do not comprise all of the risks associated with the Group and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently not known to the Directors and or which the Directors believe to be less material, may also have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition or future prospects.
The relevant mitigating factors are also described below.
Further information on the financial risks that the Group faces and how they are managed is provided on pages 98 to 100.
Strategy Risk Factors Mitigating factors Developing our offer to Reputation of the Ocado brand Clearly stated brand values with an emphasis on customers to retain our market is a key reason why customers quality and service to the customer supported by a leading position in terms of chose to purchase their groceries well-trained and motivated workforce.
service, range and price from us.
Waitrose relationship is important We have worked successfully with Waitrose for thirteen to overall brand perception and years.
The current Sourcing Agreement will continue a significant part of the product this relationship until at least 2017. range consists of Waitrose own brand products.
Strong relationships with our Buying team continues to grow, now working with over suppliers ensure competitively 800 suppliers.
priced and high quality products.
Ocado own-label range is competitively priced, growing at 70% per annum and now accounting for over 17% of own-label sales.
Continuous monitoring of the Food technology team monitors our products and quality of our products.
operations to ensure high quality standards.
Online retail is impacted by Monitor regulatory developments and to ensure that all changes in regulations relating to existing regulations are complied with.
both the internet and retail sectors.
Monitoring of operational performance to minimise its environmental impact.
Growing customer numbers and Continuing trend in UK food Continue to improve the online shopping experience spend retailing of moving from the compared to the traditional grocery market by traditional grocery market to the enhancing service, increasing range and competitive online grocery market.
Entrance of new competitors Develop new functionality and improved usability to in the online grocery market or differentiate the Ocado proposition from competitors.
heavy investment in existing online Monitor developing technologies to identify potential operations by traditional grocery new trends.
Developing market leading International development of the Maintain contact with a number of food retailers intellectual property and online grocery market is in its across the world, monitoring the adoption of online technology infancy grocery models Pace and direction of technological Specialised team tasked with improving current advances is difficult to predict processes and monitoring latest technological developments STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 44 Statement of corporate governance continued Strategy Risk Factors Mitigating factors Optimising operations to Reliance on employees and key Remuneration and incentives are monitored to ensure operate at the highest service management for the operation of they remain competitive.
There is a management levels with the lowest possible its business and further expansion.
succession plan for all key roles.
The business has cost had good relations with its workforce to date, further strengthened by the Ocado Council.
Until CFC2 reaches a material In early 2012, the Group achieved the insurance level of operation, the Group is industry recognised Highly Protected status for dependent on the continued CFC1.
Documented disaster recovery procedures operation of CFC1 in order to in key areas which are aimed at minimising certain satisfy most customer orders.
possible disruptions to the business.
The Group also has insurance policies in place which cover business interruption.
Equipment and information Dedicated engineering teams onsite with daily technology failures in CFC1 in maintenance programs support the continued particular impact on efficiency and operation of equipment and IT protocols for deploying service levels.
software upgrades or changes to systems.
efficient and uninterrupted IT systems are structured to provide reliability and operation of the internet and security.
The Webshop is regularly tested by third its own IT and communications parties for potential vulnerabilities.
plans are in place to maintain the integrity of the Groups IT infrastructure and IT systems.
Breach of health and safety laws in Specialist team sets the standards for health and the Groups operations could lead safety and works with the rest of the business to to injury to employees, negative implement, maintain and monitor these standards.
Building capacity to satisfy Achieve ramp-up plan for Detailed plans for the management and operation increased demand and drive operations at CFC2.
of CFC2 which have are subjected to regular review.
scale benets CFC2 includes redesigned processes which are planned to deliver significant efficiency improvements.
Achieve plan for further expansion CFC1 upgrade plans developed by dedicated logistics of scale of CFC1 and the Nonand engineering team and execution monitored by Food Distribution Centre.
Our expansion plans are reliant on Mixture of debt and lease finance to ensure sufficient being able to arrange and maintain available funds in place to finance its operations.
Board monitors rolling forecasts of liquidity requirements for a range of growth scenarios to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs.
In November 2012, the Group amended and extended by 18 months until 6 July 2015 its 100 million credit facility.
At that time, it issued new equity of 35.8 million through a share placing to help strengthen the Companys balance sheet and support the continued growth of the Group.
Scale benets will also be Plans in place for tight cost controls and slower rate of achieved from overhead efficiency.
cost growth in central teams.
A number of risks have been removed from the list of principal risk and uncertainties since the half yearly report for the 24 weeks ended 13 May 2012, including the expansion of CFC1, intellectual property protection and risks relating to treasury such as foreign exchange uctuations.
The Groups circumstances and priorities have since changed and as such the Directors no longer view these as principal risks or uncertainties for the Group.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stock code: OCDO www.
com 45 Membership and meetings The membership of the Audit Committee together with the appointment dates, is set out below.
Audit Audit Committee Member member since Committee Ruth Anderson Chairman 9 March 2010 David Grigson 9 March 2010 Dear Shareholder, Alex Mahon 1 June 2012 Set out below is the Audit Committees report for 2012.
The report comprises three sections: The composition of the Audit Committee changed during the period with: i the appointment of Alex Mahon in June 2012: How the Audit Committee works: ii the resignation of David Young at the AGM in May 2012: and iii Robert Gorrie standing down from the Audit Committee in What we focused on in 2012: and February 2013.
The 2010 Code requires at least one member of the Audit Committee to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Our main aims have been to ensure the integrity of the financial Two members of the Audit Committee Ruth Anderson statements and any formal announcements relating to the and David Grigson are considered by the Board to have Companys financial performance and to assist the Board in competence in accounting and or auditing and recent and monitoring risk management and internal controls.
Strong risk relevant financial experience.
The biography of each member of management is vital to implementing our strategy effectively: the Audit Committee is set out on pages 32 and 33. given the strategic importance of the opening of CFC2, a key focus for the Audit Committee, this year, was on assessing the Other attendees at the Audit Committee meetings include: Companys approach to the management of risk in developing CFC2 and preparing it for operation in early 2013.
Another area Regular Attend as of focus was reviewing the controls and processes for managing Attendees attendee required risks in IT, a crucial part of the Companys operations.
Chief Financial Officer Deputy Company Secretary We have also reviewed and evaluated the independence and the Director of Finance and Risk effectiveness of our external auditors,  Senior members of the finance LLP, and are satisfied that we can recommend them for department reappointment for the forthcoming year.
External auditors The Audit Committees work continues to focus on the most Legal and Business Affairs Director important issues for the year, which during 2013 will include the and Company Secretary integration of the financial systems for CFC2 and review of risk management systems in other key areas.
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 40.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any Role of the Audit Committee questions about the work of the Audit Committee.
As set out in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is primarily responsible for: 1. monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and the financial reporting process: 2. monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and its internal control and risk Ruth Anderson management systems: Audit Committee Chairman 3. reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for monitoring the conduct of the audit: 4. reviewing the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the auditors and monitoring the Companys policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services: 5. monitoring the need for an internal audit function: and 6. making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to shareholders of the Company in relation to the appointment and the remuneration of the external auditors.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 46 Statement of corporate governance continued Internal controls and risk management: The Companys internal What the Audit Committee focused on during 2012 control and risk management systems are described in more The Audit Committee has an annual work plan, developed from its detail on page 42, where the Audit Committees work in this area terms of reference, with standing items that the Audit Committee is highlighted.
The Audit Committee focused its reviews of risk considers at each meeting, which sets out the areas on which the during the period on areas of particular strategic importance to Audit Committee intends to focus, in addition to any matters that the business.
Management presented to the Audit Committee arise during the year.
The key issues that the Audit Committee on risks and controls for the information technology department considered during the year are described below.
including outlining some of the control measures used such as the IT security forum, the technical testing of the Webshop Financial statements and reporting:The Audit Committee and the networks, the PCI compliance programme and the reviewed the Groups financial statements.
The Board and IT operational controls.
Given the strategic importance for the the Audit Committee have reviewed the narrative reporting Group of opening CFC2 on time and within budget, management for this annual report and accounts, as well as the half year presented to the Audit Committee on the risk management and report and accounts including the operating and financial control processes used to manage the development of CFC2, and review.
In addition, the Board reviewed prior to publication the Audit Committee discussed this in detail.
the various interim management statements and trading statements made by the Company.
The Audit Committee and Compliance: The Audit Committee receives an update at the full Board reviewed the going concern basis for preparing each of its meetings on any matters including fraud and the Group consolidated financial statements including in improprieties which have been raised through the Companys particular the assumptions underlying the going concern whistle blowing procedures as set out in the employee statement and the associated risk factor disclosures.
No instances brought to the attention of the Audit element of the going concern review was the extension of the Committee during the period were viewed as material in the 100 million debt facility from January 2014 to July 2015.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives Audit Committee monitored the financial reporting processes a report at each of its meetings concerning the gift register for the Group, which included receiving audit and review and any issues of non-compliance with the Companys antireports from, and discussing these with, the external auditors, bribery policy.
The Audit Committees reviews did not reveal  LLP.
Based on the information and reports presented by management the Audit Committee is satisfied that where Accounting judgements and issues: The Audit Committee a concern or issue is raised it is investigated and appropriate reviewed a report from management on significant accounting follow-up action is taken.
issues and treatments that were subject to judgement by Annual review: In addition to its annual performance evaluation, management in relation to the financial report of the Group.
discussed on page 40, the Audit Committee carried out a review These included the capitalisation of renancing fees for the of its terms of reference: this did not result in any changes.
extended 100 million debt facility, the categorisation of CFC2 and non-food warehouse set-up costs as exceptional items, the External auditors manner of disclosing the Groups financial results for the 53 The Audit Committees work during the period included week financial year, review of the deferred tax asset recognised oversight of the engagement of the external auditors, in the accounts, the timing of recognition of media and related  LLP.
The 2010 Code requires that income and the necessary adjustments for vouchering.
The the Board establish formal arrangements for maintaining an accounting treatment of all significant issues and judgements appropriate relationship with its auditors and explain how the was subject to review by the external auditors.
The Audit auditors objectivity and independence is maintained.
Committee received reports from management in areas material to the accounts such as supplier bonus and overrider payments.
The Audit Committees oversight of the external auditors included The Audit Committee also considered the Companys existing reviewing and approving the annual audit plan to ensure that it tax strategy.
is consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The Audit Post completion capital project reviews: Management reported Committee met with  LLP at various to the Audit Committee on two significant capital projects stages during the audit process.
The Audit Committee also met undertaken by the business, one in relation to CFC1 and one with  LLP during the period, without relating to a Spoke.
The reports identied the business benets management or the finance department being present, to discuss delivered by the projects, whether the projects had been their remit and any issues arising from the audit, as did the delivered within budget and some of the lessons learned from chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also met the process.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the capital with the Groups finance department without the auditors being expenditure approval process used by the Group.
As part of its monitoring of the Companys financial reporting, the Audit Committee reviewed the findings of the audit Internal audit:The Group does not have a dedicated internal and half year review with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee considered the need for an accounting and reporting issues arising during the audit were internal audit function, as required by the 2010 Code and concluded discussed and also areas of adjusted and unadjusted differences that, given the Groups current stage of development and existing identied during the audit and their impact on the financial monitoring and internal control measures, it was not yet necessary.
The Audit Committee was sufciently assured that other monitoring processes were being applied to help ensure that the Groups The Audit Committee considered the reappointment of system of internal control was functioning as intended.
The Audit  LLP in line with the Companys policy Committee gained its assurance from reports from management and on reappointment of auditors.
This review took into account from reports provided by the auditors with regard to internal control the proposed terms of engagement, the level of audit fees, the and risk management.
The Board accepted the Audit Committees effectiveness of the audit team on the previous audit and the recommendation to not establish an internal audit function.
The independence of the auditors.
need for an internal audit function will be monitored by the Audit Committee and subject to an annual review in 2013.
The Companys policy in respect of non-audit services requires prior approval by the chairman of the Audit Committee for nonSTATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stock code: OCDO www.
com 47 audit work above a threshold level of 30,000 per engagement, The Audit Committee reviewed the performance of and requires prior approval by the Chief Financial officer for  LLP based on a survey that contained non-audit work above a threshold of 10,000 up to 30,000 various criteria for judging their effectiveness and on feedback per engagement.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken from management.
The questionnaire was facilitated by the by  LLP during the period was tax Company Secretary and considered by the members of the and accounting advice provided in relation to the Companys Audit Committee and the finance department.
The criteria for establishment of a subsidiary entity in Poland, representing 25% assessing the effectiveness of the audit included the robustness of the audit, the quality of the audit delivery and the quality of the audit and audit-related fees.
The total of non-audit fees of the people and service.
The Audit Committee considered and audit fees paid to  LLP during the the various criteria and concluded that the performance of period is set out in the Note 2.1.
3 to the consolidated financial  LLP remained effective.
The Audit Committee receives a regular report from management regarding the extent of non-audit services Consequently, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board performed by  LLP.
The Companys the reappointment of  LLP.
The Board policy is that in certain limited areas it is in the Companys and has accepted this recommendation and a resolution for their its shareholders interests to engage the external audit rm to reappointment for a further year will be put to the shareholders deliver certain services.
It was in the interests of the Company at the Annual General Meeting.
At the annual general meeting to engage  LLP in the period, for: i the in 2012, 99.87% of votes cast by shareholders were in favour of review of the Groups half-year accounts given their knowledge reappointing  LLP as auditors.
and understanding of the Group: and ii the Poland work given  LLPs Poland ofce had considerable Rotation experience in this area.
It is a requirement that the audit partner responsible for the  LLP also follows its own ethical Group and subsidiary audits is rotated every five years, in line guidelines and the Auditing Practices Boards standards, and with the Auditing Practices Boards standards.
In compliance continually reviews its procedures to safeguard independence with this requirement, the  LLP audit and the audit team to ensure its independence is not engagement partner changed in 2012. compromised.
 LLP reported to the Audit Committee that it had considered its independence in The 2012 Code requires that companies should put the relation to the audit, including considerations relating to threats external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
and safeguards where they perform non-audit services for the  LLP has audited the Groups accounts Group.
 LLP provided a report to the since 2001 and has not re-tendered for the role since then.
Audit Committee of the specic safeguards put in place for During the year, the Audit Committee did consider whether each piece of non-audit work.
 LLP the audit work should be put out for tender.
However, given was satisfied that neither the extent of the non-audit services the change of Chief Financial officer during the period, and provided nor the size of the respective fees charged had any the fresh perspectives of a new audit engagement partner, the impact on its independence as statutory auditors and confirmed Audit Committee considered that there were benets to be to the Audit Committee that they comply with UK regulatory and gained from retaining the continuity and knowledge of some professional requirements, including the Ethical Standards issued of the other members of the audit team.
The Audit Committee by the Auditing Practices Board and that its objectivity is not remains satisfied with the independence and effectiveness of compromised.
 LLP and, accordingly, did not consider it the right time to require the rm to retender for the audit work.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the quantum of the non-audit fees relative to the audit fees together with the other measures taken by the Company and the auditors mean that the auditors independence from the Group was not compromised in the circumstances.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that the level of audit fees payable in respect of the audit services provided was appropriate and that an effective audit could be conducted for such a fee.
The Audit Committee compared the proposed fees with the prior years fees in drawing this conclusion.
The existing authority for the Directors including the Audit Committee to determine the current remuneration of the external auditors, as noted above, is derived from the shareholder approval granted at the Companys annual general meeting in 2012.
At the 2012 annual general meeting, 100% of votes cast by shareholders were in favour of granting the Company this authority.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 48 Statement of corporate governance continued Membership and meetings The membership of the Nomination Committee together with the appointment dates, is set out below.
Nomination Nomination Committee Committee Member member since David Grigson Chairman 9 March 2010 Dear Shareholder, Robert Gorrie 9 March 2010 Michael Grade 9 March 2010 We have had a busy year with a number of changes to the Board.
Jrn Rausing 9 March 2010 Ruth Anderson 9 March 2010 On the executive side, the Nomination Committee Douglas McCallum 3 October 2011 recommended the appointment of Mark Richardson as Alex Mahon 1 June 2012 Operations Director and the appointment of Duncan TattonSir Stuart Rose 11 March 2013 Brown as Chief Financial officer.
We also secured the appointment of two Non-Executive Directors, Wendy Becker The composition of the Nomination Committee changed with: i and Alex Mahon.
It is with regret that in January 2013, Wendy the resignation of David Young at the AGM in May 2012: ii the Becker had informed the Board of her decision to stand down appointment in March 2012 and then subsequent resignation in as a Non-Executive Director of the Company with immediate January 2013 of Wendy Becker: iii the appointments of Alex Mahon effect.
We are very sorry to lose Wendy but fully understand that in June 2012 and Sir Stuart Rose in March 2013.
The biography of she has new extensive responsibilities as Chief Operating officer each member of the Nomination Committee is set out on pages 32 at Jack Wills.
A significant event following year end was the announcement Other attendees at the Nomination Committee meetings include: of Lord Grades retirement as Chairman of the Company and the appointment of Sir Stuart Rose as Chairman Designate.
Sir Regular Attend as Stuart will take over as Chairman at the Companys AGM on Attendees attendee required 10 May 2013, when Lord Grades retirement becomes effective.
Chief Executive Officer Director of Human Resources In light of the various changes to the make-up of the Board, Deputy Company Secretary we took the opportunity to review the composition of the Board committees.
As a result I am pleased to say that all of the members of both the Audit Committee and the Remuneration The Nomination Committee held three meetings during the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors, in period.
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 40. compliance with the 2010 Code.
Principal activities of the Nomination Committee Further details on the Nomination Committees work carried out during 2012 during the period are set out in the following report.
The Nomination Committee undertook a number of principal activities during the period as described below.
Non-Executive Director Appointments: The Nomination Committees work had resulted in the recruitment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors, namely, Alex Mahon and Wendy Becker.
In the case of each Non-Executive Director appointment, the Nomination Committee reviewed the existing skill-set on the Board and the knowledge, background and David Grigson time commitment required for the roles.
Professional services Chairman of the Nomination Committee consultants, Lygon Group and The Zygos Partnership were instructed by the chairman of the Nomination Committee in connection with separate recruitment processes for Wendy Becker and Alex Mahon.
Numerous candidates were interviewed and, following extensive searches, the Nomination Committee made separate recommendations to the Board to appoint Wendy Becker and Alex Mahon as independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that there is no connection between the Company and either the Lygon Group or The Zygos Partnership.
In January 2013, the Company announced that Wendy Becker had stood down as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
com 49 Chairman appointment: The Nomination Committee, led by the Reviewing committee composition: The Nomination Committee Senior Independent Director, carried out a recruitment process to made a number of decisions about changing the composition identify suitable candidates to succeed Lord Grade as Chairman.
of the Board committees in light of the various Non-Executive The Zygos Partnership were appointed to carry out recruitment Director appointments to the Board.
Following the period end, searches based on criteria agreed by the Nomination Committee.
it recommended to the Board that the composition of both All of the Directors met with the final candidate.
The Chairman the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee be of the Nomination Committee consulted with the Companys changed to bring the membership of each into line with the largest shareholders on the succession plan and the proposed independence requirements of the 2010 Code.
Following its deliberations, the Nomination Committee accepted the recommendations that Non-Executive Director, recommended to the Board to appoint Sir Stuart Rose as an Robert Gorrie stand down from both the Audit Committee and Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate.
the Remuneration Committee, that Non-Executive Director, Sir Stuart will become Chairman immediately following Lord Jrn Rausing stand down from the Remuneration Committee Grades retirement.
and that independent Non-Executive Director, David Grigson be appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
So with effect from Executive Director Appointments: In view of the resignation February 2012 both the Audit Committee and the Remuneration of Andrew Bracey in March 2012, the Nomination Committee Committee compositions are compliant with independence carried out a formal process and appointed professional requirements of the 2010 Code.
services consultants, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, to undertake a formal search for a replacement Chief Financial officer.
The Diversity: The Nomination Committee is also responsible for search was based on a formal role description.
Candidates were reviewing the composition of the Board, to ensure that its shortlisted by Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann and interviewed.
membership represents a mix of backgrounds and experience The Nomination Committee considered and recommended to that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
the Board to appoint Duncan Tatton-Brown as Chief Financial In considering the size and composition of the Board the officer.
The Nomination Committee is satisfied that there is no Nomination Committee had taken account of various factors connection between the Company and Korn Ferry Whitehead including skills, experience and diversity of the existing Board.
Duncan has brought to the Board a wealth of experience from his previous roles including Fitness First plc, Kingsher The Nomination Committee considered the Davies Report on plc and B&Q plc as well as his current non-executive role at diversity and the newly introduced changes in the 2012 Code Rentokil Initial plc, which the Board viewed as important for the during the period, and consequently recommended to the Company given its recent listing.
Board the approval of a Board diversity policy.
A key objective of the Board is that the Board composition is sufciently diverse The Nomination Committees and Boards deliberations and reects a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience during the period also included a discussion about the size to enable it to meets its responsibilities.
The policy contains and composition of the Executive Director team.
The Board a number of measurable objectives, including a commitment felt that additional executive support for the Chief Executive to have a solid representation of women on the Board and in officer would be needed in overseeing the Groups operations, senior positions in the Company and a commitment to only particularly in view of the development and opening of CFC2.
engage executive search rms who have signed up to the Consequently, in January 2012, the Board approved the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
The appointment of Mark Richardson to the newly created Executive Nomination Committee will monitor the progress made by the Director position of Operations Director.
This appointment was Company in achieving these objectives.
significant in that it was the Groups first internal promotion to Executive Director level.
The Board believes in the value and importance of diversity, including gender diversity, in the Boardroom and throughout Succession plans: The Nomination Committee is responsible the Group but it does not consider that it is appropriate or in the for overseeing the process of succession and management interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive development for the Executive Directors.
As part of this ongoing targets for gender on the Board.
Consequently the diversity review, the Nomination Committee has again reviewed the policy does not contain any numerical targets.
Diversity will succession plans for the Executive Directors and the next layer of remain an active consideration when changes to the Boards management, the Management Committee.
The Chief Executive composition are contemplated.
officer and Director of Human Resources reported to the Nomination Committee the progress made with the succession Annual review: In addition to its annual performance evaluation, plans, including the responses developed in light of changes to discussed on page 40, the Nomination Committee carried out the Executive team and the Management Committee over the a review of its terms of reference during the period.
The review course of the year.
In particular, it was noted that the succession resulted in some small changes to the terms of reference to plans had been utilised in relation to the promotion of Mark ensure that they reected the changes to the 2010 Code, by Richardson from the Management Committee to the position of making specic reference to diversity, and the relevant revised Operations Director.
A number of the succession objectives set in guidance.
2011 had been met or exceeded during 2012.
The Nomination Committee were assured that appropriate plans are in place for the orderly succession of appointments to these roles.
Reviewing Board composition: The Nomination Committee had met regularly during the period to discuss Board composition in relation to the various Board appointments noted above.
The Nomination Committee will continue to meet regularly to consider the Board size and composition.
The Chairman Designate, Sir Stuart Rose will review Board composition in due course.
Further information concerning Board independence is set out on page 39.
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
