BUSINESS REVIEW PRI NCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES OPHIR RECOGNISES THAT AS AN UPSTREAM OIL AND GAS BUSINESS IT IS POTENTIALLY EXPOSED TO MANY DIFFERENT RISKS.
EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE GROUPS ACTIVITIES.
IT INVOLVES IMPLEMENTING ACTION PLANS AROUND AND WITHIN THE GROUPS ACTIVITIES IN ORDER TO PROTECT BUSINESS INTERESTS FROM RISKS.
Ophirs executive directors, Senior Management Team The key elements of Ophirs Group risk management and Country Managers are responsible for identifying, processes are: evaluating and managing risks.
Risk assessment Risk identication and management Risk analysis and evaluation Risk management is embedded within Ophirs Risk mitigation organisation structure, operations and management.
Risk monitoring and reviewing The executive directors continually monitor the Groups risk matrix and register and report updates to the Audit Communication and consultation Committee and Board of Directors on a six monthly The principal risks that have been identied within basis, or more frequently if required.
the Group are summarised as follows: Type Risk Mitigants Political risk Strategic The Group maintains a balanced asset portfolio across different jurisdictions in a region where the Group is most accustomed to operating The Group strives continually to maintain positive relationships in all host countries that it operates.
Ophir aims to work to the highest industry standards with all regulators and compliance with the Companys licence and PSC obligations is closely monitored Inadequate Ophir relies on a small team of experienced oil and gas professionals resource and for its operational success.
In order to retain, motivate and recruit reliance on suitably qualied employees it ensures its remuneration packages are keypersonnel competitive.
It has established a long term incentive programme for executives and a deferred share plan for staff Investment The Group and its advisors are experienced within the industry in decisions which it operates and complete a proper review against the Groups strategy and investment criteria.
Full due diligence is undertaken on all potential new entries.
The current portfolio is closely monitored Operational Drilling Maintenance of clearly dened operational procedures whereby operations risk compliance is always expected The contracting & procurement process ensures suitably qualied contractors are employed Regular training in the processes and continual monitoring of adherence are undertaken HSE incident Maintenance of a comprehensive system of HSE procedures that risk should always be followed and the undertaking of pre-project risk assessments.
The systems are overseen by management and the HSE Committee which regularly meets to review and monitor compliance Comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessments are performed.
Oil spill and emergency response plans are in place.
Provision of equipment and regular training in the procedures occurs with specialist service providers WWW.
COM 38 BUSINESS REVIEW Type Risk Mitigants 01 Discovery The Group has a technically and regionally experienced management risk and and a geoscience team who have a proven track record of success.
success rate To reduce risk, substantial technical analysis is undertaken to evaluate and manage opportunities All exploration and appraisal programmes are consistently reviewed and monitored before being recommended to the Board for approval IT risk Systems are in place to manage unscheduled power loss, virus outbreaks and network disruptions and thereby minimise downtime tooperations and corporate offices Availability Regular market review of services and rig availability occurs.
ofrigs and Engagement of experienced advisors to ensure a rapid response services toopportunities and an ability to close binding agreements quickly A dedicated drilling project manager and C&P manager ensure aclear contracting strategy and project plan are produced early inthe procurement planning stage Financial Inability to fund Regular review of cash ow, working capital and funding options and exploration work a prudent approach to budgeting and planning to ensure sufficient programmes capital to meet commitments Counterparty Close monitoring of all trade debtors who are subject to internal credit risk credit review Cost and capital A formalised annual budget process and ongoing monthly reviews spending of actual versus budget analysis.
Delegation of authority, approval processes and contracts & procurement procedures.
Board approval of Annual Work Programme Interest rate Cash balances are primarily held in US Dollars to provide a natural and foreign hedge to reect majority of the Groups business is managed and exchange risk conducted using US Dollars.
Small balances are retained in other currencies for operating and administrative needs Cash balances are held in current or short term deposits Further details on principal financial risks are addressed in Note 19 in the Groups consolidated financial statements External Sovereign and Regular monitoring for changes and reviewing of all jurisdictions in country risk which it operates.
The Groups management are experienced within the industry and maintain close relations and continually focus on working with each jurisdictions Governments Legal, Activities are subject to various different jurisdictional laws, customs, regulatory or scal and administrative regulations.
The Group employs suitably litigation risk experienced and qualied staff and when required external advisors to ensure full compliance Key policies and procedures consider the requirements of the UKBribery Act Legal risk assessment and due diligence where appropriate isundertaken for all counterparties the Group deals with Maintenance and monitoring of a Business Code of Conduct and Anti-corruption policies.
Ongoing training take places with all employees on policies implemented Investor and The Group fosters strong relations with the local communities stakeholder andhost country governments in jurisdictions that it operates.
sentiment Itproactively interacts with all relevant stakeholders Maintaining regular dialogue and provision of information to all keyshareholders.
Internal investor relations and advisers ensure allmaterial information is released to the market on a timely basis and in accordance with applicable regulations ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 39 GOVERNANCE OPHIRS ONGOING COMMITMENT TO HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 42 Board of Directors 44 Directors Report 48 Corporate Governance Report 54 Report of the Audit Committee 57 Report of the HSE Committee 58 Report of the Nomination Committee 60 Remuneration Report 73 Statement of Directors Responsibilities WWW.
COM 40 GOVERNANCE 02 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 41
