THE YEAR IN REVIEW Principal Risks 22 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 SPECIFIC RISK Context Risk Possible Impact The Group provides high Failure of the advanced U Lower profitability technology equipment and technologies applied by the and financial returns.
Group to produce commercial U Negative impact on the Technical Risk products, capable of being Groups reputation.
The recent global recession Demand for the Groups U Lower profitability and prevailing economic products may be lower and financial returns.
Economic Environment downturn have resulted in cuts than anticipated.
to both government and private sector spending.
Part of the growth of Appropriate acquisition targets U Lower profitability Oxford Instruments plans is will not be available in the and financial returns.
to come from acquisitions necessary timescale.
U Management focus taken which provide the Group with Acquisitions Alternatively, once acquired, away from the core complementary technologies.
targets may fail to provide business in order to the planned value.
A significant proportion The Groups profit levels are U Lower profitability of the Groups profit is made exposed to uctuations in and financial returns.
Foreign exchange in foreign currencies.
volatility The Groups strategic plan Failures in the supply chain U Disruption to customers.
includes the outsourcing of impacting sales.
U Negative impact on the a signicantly higher proportion Outsourcing Groups reputation.
of the costs of its products to benefit from economies of scale and natural currency hedges.
The Group relies on the As copper prices rise, U Lower profitability.
purchase of a significant profitability falls.
Raw material U Occasional disruption amount of copper for the volatility to production.
production of its superconducting wire.
The Groups calculated Movements in the actuarial U Additional cash required pension deficit is sensitive assumptions may have an by the Group to fund Pensions to changes in the actuarial appreciable effect on the the deficit.
A number of the Groups One critical or a number of key U Disruption to customers.
employees in an associated U Lower profitability work area leave the Group.
The Groups growth plan and financial returns.
requires people and structure Performance does not meet People capable of managing the expectations.
increasing size and complexity of the business.
THE YEAR IN REVIEW 23 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Associated strategic priorities Mitigation U The Group has moved away from large scale, single customer U Realising the Brand Using Voice of the Customer development programmes towards more commercially to drive rapid new product development.
U Adding Personal Value Support and develop our employees to maximise their value add.
U The New Product Introduction programme that any new R&D projects must pass through provides a framework within which the commercial viability of projects are scrutinised and assessed.
U Realising the Brand Developing a strong brand in U The Group has a broad spread of customers, applications and existing and developing markets.
U Delivering Shareholder Value Focus on balanced U The Group is expanding in the so called BRIC nations, especially and attractive global markets.
China, which has not suffered from the downturn.
U Realising the Brand Developing a strong brand in U Extensive financial and technical due diligence is undertaken existing and developing markets.
by the Group during any acquisition programmes.
U Inventing the Future Using Voice of the Customer U Each transaction has a comprehensive post acquisition to drive rapid new product development.
integration plan which is reviewed at the highest level.
U Adding Personal Value Supporting and developing our employees.
U Delivering Shareholder Value Focus on balanced U The Group seeks to mitigate the exposure to transactional risk and attractive global markets.
by the use of natural hedges wherever possible.
U Liberating Cash Developing a competitive global U The remaining transactional foreign exchange risk in any year is supply base that supports our growth.
mitigated through the use of forward and non-premium based option exchange contracts.
U Liberating Cash Developing a competitive global U Relationships with outsourcing businesses are monitored closely supply base that supports our growth.
and any potential issues are acted upon swiftly to avoid disruption.
U Realising the Brand Developing a strong brand in U Where practical dual sources are used for key components existing and developing markets.
U Liberating Cash Developing a competitive global U The Group has entered into agreements with the two largest supply base that supports our growth.
buyers of superconducting wire to pass the vast majority of pricing risk to them.
U Delivering Shareholder Value Focus on balanced and attractive global markets.
U Delivering Shareholder Value Focus on balanced and U The Group has closed its dened benefit pension schemes attractive global markets.
in the UK and US to future accrual.
U Liberating Cash Developing a competitive global U The Group has a funding plan in place to reduce the pension supply base that supports our growth.
deficit over the short to medium term.
U Adding Personal Value Supporting and developing U The Group undertakes a regular employee survey and our employees.
implements and reviews resulting action plans.
U Inventing the Future creating a sustainable U A comprehensive succession planning process is in place, organisation.
together with a talent network which identies and manages contacts with people who could provide external succession for critical current and future roles.
U A management development programme provides exposure to key skills needed for growth.
Regular individual performance reviews take place.
