RISKS PayPoints business, financial condition or operations could be materially and adversely affected by the risks summarised below.
Although management takes steps to mitigate risks where possible or where the cost of doing so is reasonable in relation to the probability and seriousness of the risk, it may not be possible to avoid the crystallisation of some or all of such risks.
The groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in the governance statement on pages 18 and 19.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Loss or inappropriate usage The groups business requires the appropriate The group has established rigorous information of data and secure use of consumer and other sensitive security, anti-fraud and whistleblowing standards, information.
Mobile telephone and internet-based procedures, and recruitment and training schemes, electronic commerce requires the secure transmission which are embedded throughout its business of condential information over public networks, operations.
The group also screens new employees and several of our products are accessed through the carefully.
Continued investments are made in IT internet.
Fraudulent activity or security breaches in security infrastructure, including the significant use connection with maintaining data and the delivery of of data and communications encryption technology.
our products and services could harm our reputation, business and operating results.
Dependence upon third parties The groups business model is dependent upon The group selects and negotiates agreements with to provide data and certain third parties to provide operational services, the strategic suppliers and agents based on criteria operational services loss of which could signicantly impact the quality such as delivery assurance and reliability.
Similarly, if one of our outsource points of failure are avoided, where practicable providers, including third parties with whom we have and economically feasible.
Controls are continually strategic relationships, were to experience financial reviewed and improved to minimise risk of retailer or operational difficulties, their services to us would churn caused by financial loss to retailers through suffer or they may no longer be able to provide fraudulent third party activity.
services to us at all, signicantly impacting delivery of our products or services.
Exposure to legislation or The group is largely unregulated by financial services The groups legal department works closely with regulatory reforms and risk of regulators.
The groups agents which offer money senior management to adopt strategies to educate non-compliance transfer are licensed as Money Service Businesses by lawmakers, regulators, consumer and privacy HMRC.
Our internet and mobile phone distribution advocates and other stakeholders to support the channels are subject to Payment Card Industry public policy debate, where appropriate, to ensure Data Security Standards regulated by the card regulation does not have unintended consequences schemes.
Regulatory reform could increase the over the groups services.
The group has in place cost of the groups operations or deny access to a business ethics policy which requires compliance certain territories in the provision of certain services.
with local legislation in all the territories in Non-compliance with law, regulation, privacy which the group operates.
A central compliance or information security laws could have serious department co-ordinates all compliance monitoring implications in cost and reputational damage to and reporting.
Managing and finance directors are the group.
required to sign annual compliance statements.
Interruptions in business The groups ability to provide reliable services Comprehensive business continuity plans and processes or systems largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted incident management programmes are maintained operation of our computer network systems, to minimise business and operational disruptions, financial settlement systems, data and call centres, as including fraudulent activity, system failure well as maintaining sufficient stafng levels.
The group maintains or network interruptions, recovery from fraud or full duplication of all information contained in security incidents or the unavailability of key staff or databases and runs back-up data centres.
Support management resulting from a pandemic outbreak arrangements have been established with third party could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver vendors and there are strict standards, procedures or maintain our products and services, causing harm and training schemes for business continuity.
to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue.
Dependence on recruitment The ability of the group to meet the demands of the Effective recruitment programmes are ongoing and retention of highly skilled market and compete effectively is, to a large extent, across all business areas, as well as personal and personnel dependent on the skills, experience and performance career development initiatives.
The executive of its personnel.
Demand is high for individuals with management reviews talent potential at quarterly appropriate knowledge and experience in payments, meetings.
Compensation and benets programmes IT and support services.
The inability to attract, are competitive and also reviewed regularly.
motivate or retain key talent could have a serious consequence on the groups ability to service client commitments and grow our business.
12 PayPoint plc annual report 2012 RISKS continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Exposure to materially adverse The group contracts with a number of large service The group seeks to limit exposure in its contracts.
litigation organisations for which it provides services essential Mitigating actions are taken where contractual to their customers.
Failure to perform in accordance exposures are above the norm, including with contractual terms could give rise to litigation.
insurance coverage, where appropriate and economically sustainable.
Exposure to country and The groups geographic footprint subjects its The groups portfolio is diversied by geography, by regional risk political, financial, businesses to economic, political and other risks product, by sector and by client in order to protect economic, social in North associated with international sales and operations.
itself against many of these uctuations, especially America, United Kingdom, A variety of factors, including changes in a specic those that are restricted to individual territories and Romania, France and Ireland countrys or regions political, economic or regulatory market sectors, although the bulk of its operations requirements, as well as the potential for geopolitical and revenues are UK based.
turmoil, including terrorism and war, could result in loss of services, prevent our ability to respond to agreed service levels or full other obligations.
These risks are generally outside the control of the group.
Exposure to consolidation Consolidation of retailers and clients could result No single client accounts for more than 9% of the among clients and markets in reductions in the groups revenue and profits groups net revenue, and no single retailer accounts through price compression from combined service for more than 8% of the groups net revenue, agreements or through a reduced number of clients.
which reduces the probability of this potential risk having a significant impact on the groups business.
In addition, the group continues to expand in its developing businesses, and in cash out reversing the ow of money through its retail networks.
Acquisitions may not meet The groups acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint The group assesses all acquisitions rigorously, using expectations ventures may result in financial outcomes that are both in-house experts and professional advisers.
In addition, the group conducts extensive postacquisition reviews to ensure, as far as is possible, that performance remains consistent with the acquisition business plan.
Exposure to the unpredictability As the group operates on an international basis, it is The groups financial risk management focuses on of financial markets foreign exposed to the risk of currency uctuations and the the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to exchange, interest rate and unpredictability of financial markets in which minimise potentially adverse effects on the groups other financial risks it operates.
Exposure to increasing The group operates in a number of geographic, The group is committed to continued research and competition product and service markets that are highly investment in new data sources, people, technology competitive and subject to technological and products to support its strategic plan.
Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services, which could result in the loss of clients, merchants and retailers or a reduction in revenue.
Loss or infringement of The groups success depends, in part, upon The group, where appropriate and feasible, relies intellectual property rights proprietary technology and related intellectual upon a combination of patent, copyright, trademark property rights.
Some protection can be achieved and trade secret laws, as well as various contractual but in many cases, little protection can be secured.
restrictions, to protect our proprietary technology and Third parties may claim that the group is infringing continues to monitor this situation.
The group also their intellectual property rights or our intellectual vigorously defends all third party infringement claims.
property rights could be infringed by third parties.
If we do not enforce the groups intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results.
Data centre security breaches The group is highly dependent on information The groups data centres are protected against technology networks and systems to process, physical break-ins.
The group has strict standards transmit and store electronic information.
and procedures for security and fraud prevention.
Fraudulent or unauthorised access, including security breaches of our data centres, could create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorised disclosure of condential information.
