138 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk management The Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings is managed by borrowing on a fixed rate basis and by entering into rate swaps, rate caps and forward rate agreements.
The Groups policy objective has continued to be to set a target proportion of its forecast borrowings taken at the year end, with cash netted against floating rate debt and before certain adjustments for IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to be hedged i. e. fixed or capped at the year end over the next four years, subject to a maximum of 65% and a minimum that starts at 40% and falls by 10% at each year end.
At the end of 2012 the fixed to floating hedging ratio, on the above basis, was approximately 55%.
A simultaneous 1% change on 1 January 2013 in the Groups variable interest rates in US dollar and sterling, taking into account forecast seasonal debt, would have a 6m effect on profit before tax.
Use of interest rate derivatives The policy described in the section above creates a group of derivatives, under which the Group is a payer of fixed rates and a receiver of floating rates.
The Group also aims to avoid undue exposure to a single interest rate setting.
Reflecting this objective, the Group has predominantly swapped its fixed rate bond issues to floating rate at their launch.
This creates a second group of derivatives, under which the Group is a receiver of fixed rates and a payer of floating rates.
The Groups accounting objective in its use of interest rate derivatives is to minimise the impact on the income statement of changes in the mark-to-market value of its derivative portfolio as a whole.
It uses duration calculations to estimate the sensitivity of the derivatives to movements in market rates.
The Group also identifies which derivatives are eligible for fair value hedge accounting which reduces sharply the income statement impact of changes in the market value of a derivative.
The Group then balances the total portfolio between hedgeaccounted and pooled segments, so that the expected movement on the pooled segment is minimal.
Liquidity and refinancing risk management The Groups objective is to secure continuity of funding at a reasonable cost.
To do this it seeks to arrange committed funding for a variety of maturities from a diversity of sources.
The Groups policy objective has been that the weighted average maturity of its core gross borrowings treating short-term advances as having the final maturity of the facilities available to refinance them should be between three and ten years.
At the end of 2012 the average maturity of gross borrowings was 3.9 years 2011: 4.0 years of which bonds represented 97% 2011: 95% of these borrowings.
The Group believes that ready access to different funding markets also helps to reduce its liquidity risk, and that published credit ratings and published financial policies improve such access.
All of the Groups credit ratings remained unchanged during the year.
The long-term ratings are Baa1 from Moodys and BBB from Standard & Poors, and the short-term ratings are P2 and A2 respectively.
The Groups policy is to strive to maintain a rating of Baa1 BBB over the long term.
The Group will also continue to use internally a range of ratios to monitor and manage its finances.
These include interest cover, net debt to operating profit and cash flow to debt measures.
The Group also maintains undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
At the end of 2012 the committed facilities amounted to 1,077m and their weighted average maturity was 2.9 years.
