OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 57 Committee members also meet with local Pearsons anti-corruption programme: management on an ongoing basis in order to gain Pearsons data protection programme: a better understanding of how Group policies are Review of the committees terms of reference: embedded in operations.
For example, during its visit Annual internal audit plan: to So Paulo in June 2012, the committee met with Risk deep-dive: testing and assessment business: local senior finance managers.
Review of company risk returns including Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE risks: Meetings Group tax strategy review: and The committee met four times during the year with Annual review of treasury policy.
the following in attendance: the chief financial officer: In February 2013, the committee also considered head of Group internal audit and risk assurance: the 2012 annual report and accounts, including the members of the senior management team: and the preliminary announcement, financial statements, external auditors.
The committee also met regularly business review, directors report and corporate in private with the external auditors and the head governance compliance statement.
of Group internal audit and risk assurance.
Internal control and risk management At every meeting, the committee considered reports on the activities of the Group internal audit function, The directors confirm they have conducted a review including the results of internal audits, risk reviews, of the effectiveness of the groups systems of risk project assurance reviews and fraud and management and internal controls, including strategic, whistleblowing reports.
The committee also monitored financial, operational and compliance controls and risk the companys financial reporting, internal controls management systems, in accordance with the UK and risk management procedures and considered Corporate Governance Code and the Turnbull any significant legal claims and regulatory issues in the guidance as revised.
These systems have been context of their impact on financial reporting.
operating throughout the year and to the date of this report.
Specifically, the committee considered the following matters during the course of the year: The key elements and procedures that have been established to provide effective risk management The 2011 annual report and accounts: preliminary and internal control systems are described below: announcement, financial statements and income statement: Control environment The Group accounting policies: The board of directors has overall responsibility for Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed Code: to manage, and where possible mitigate, the risks facing Form 20-F and related disclosures including the annual the Group, safeguard assets and provide reasonable, Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 attestation of financial but not absolute, assurance against material financial reporting internal controls: misstatement or loss.
Receipt of the external auditors report on the Form Responsibility for monitoring financial management and 20-F and on the year end audit: reporting and risk management and internal control Assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups internal systems has been delegated to the audit committee control environment: by the board.
At each meeting, the audit committee Reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter considers reports from management, Group internal of the external auditors: audit and the external auditors, with the aim of Provision of non-audit services by PwC: reviewing the effectiveness of the internal financial Review of the interim financial statements and and operating control environment of the Group.
announcement: Annual re-approval of the Group internal audit The identification and mitigation of significant business mandate: risks is the responsibility of Group senior management Compliance with SEC and NYSE requirements and operating company management.
Each operating including Sarbanes-Oxley Act: company, including the corporate centre, maintains Reviews of the effectiveness of the audit committee, internal controls and procedures appropriate to its the external auditors and the Group internal audit structure, business environment and risk assessment, function: 58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Board governance continued whilst complying with Group policies, standards the output of these sessions, focusing on the significant and guidelines.
Management has the responsibility to consider and execute appropriate Financial management and reporting action to mitigate these risks whenever possible.
There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting The results of these reviews are reported to the and forecasting system with an annual operating plan board in detail via the audit committee.
approved by the board of directors.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, balance sheets, Group internal audit cash flow statements, capital expenditures and The Group internal audit function is responsible for indebtedness, is reported against the corresponding providing independent assurance to management on figures for the plan and prior years, with corrective the design and effectiveness of internal controls to action outlined by the appropriate senior executive.
mitigate strategic, financial, operational and compliance Group senior management meet, on a quarterly basis, risks.
The risk-based annual internal audit plan is with operating company management to review their approved by the audit committee.
Recommendations business and financial performance against plan and to improve internal controls and to mitigate risks, or forecast.
Major business risks relevant to each both, are agreed with operating company management operating company as well as performance against the after each audit.
Formal follow-up procedures allow stated financial and strategic objectives are reviewed in Group internal audit to monitor operating companies these meetings.
progress in implementing its recommendations and to resolve any control deficiencies.
The Group internal We have an ongoing process to monitor the risks and audit function also has a remit to monitor significant effectiveness of controls in relation to the financial Group projects, in conjunction with the central project reporting and consolidation process including the management office and to provide assurance that related information systems.
This includes up-to-date appropriate project governance and risk management Group financial policies, formal requirements for strategies are in place.
Group internal audit has a business unit finance functions, Group consolidation formal collaboration process in place with the external reviews and analysis of material variances, group auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal finance technical reviews, including the use of technical controls.
Regular reports on the work of Group specialists, and review and sign-off by senior finance internal audit are provided to executive management managers.
These processes are monitored and and, via the audit committee, to the board.
assessed during the year by the Group internal audit and Group compliance functions.
The head of Group internal audit is jointly responsible with the Group legal counsel for monitoring These controls include those over external financial compliance with our Code of Conduct, and reporting which are documented and tested in investigating any reported incidents including ethical, accordance with the requirements of section 404 corruption and fraud allegations.
The Pearson antiof the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to bribery and corruption programme provides the our US listing.
framework to support our compliance with various The effectiveness of key financial controls is subject anti-bribery and corruption regulations such as the to management review and self certification and UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt independent evaluation by Group internal audit.
A risk management framework is in place to identify, Treasury management evaluate and manage risks, including key financial The treasury department operates within policies reporting risks.
Operating companies undertake approved by the board and its procedures are semi-annual risk reviews to identify new or potentially reviewed regularly by the audit committee.
Throughout the year, risk transactions are authorised outside the department sessions facilitated by the head of Group internal audit at the requisite level, and there is an appropriate and risk assurance are held with Group and operating segregation of duties.
Frequent reports are made company management to identify the key risks the to the chief financial officer and regular reports are company faces in achieving its objectives, to assess prepared for the audit committee and the board.
the probability and impact of those risks and to document the actions being taken to manage those risks.
The Pearson management committee reviews
