OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 31 Principal risks and uncertainties Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk below.
These are the most significant risks that may factors which may affect our business and financial adversely affect our business strategy, financial performance and to assist management in prioritising position or future performance.
The risk assessment their response to those risks.
Our Group internal process evaluates the probability of the risk audit and risk assurance function facilitates risk materialising and the financial or strategic impact of reviews with each business, shared service operations the risk.
Those risks which have a higher probability and corporate functions, identifying measures and and significant impact on strategy, reputation or controls to mitigate these risks.
These reviews are operations or a financial impact greater than designed so that the different businesses are able 40million are identied as principal risks.
The risk to tailor and adapt their risk management processes assessment and reporting criteria are designed to to suit their specic circumstances.
Management provide the board with a consistent, Group-wide is responsible for considering and executing the perspective of the key risks.
The reports to the board, appropriate action to mitigate these risks whenever which are submitted twice per year, include an possible.
It is not possible to identify every risk that assessment of the probability and impact of risks could affect our businesses, and the actions taken materialising, as well as risk mitigation initiatives and to mitigate the risks described below cannot their effectiveness.
provide absolute assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely affect our business or financial performance.
PRINCIPAL RISKS IMPACT AND PROBABILITY EDUCATION REGULATION TECHNOLOGY AND FUNDING CHANGES BRAND REPUTATION PERCEPTION ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTIES INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY DATA PRIVACY RIGHTS BREACH ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS EMERGING MARKETS TESTING FAILURES PROBABILITY IMPACT 32 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks Mitigating factors TECHNOLOGY CHANGES Our education, business information and book publishing We are transforming our products and services for the businesses will be impacted by the rate of and state of digital environment along with managing our print inventories.
technological change, including the digital revolution Our content is being adapted to new technologies across and other disruptive technologies.
our businesses and is priced to drive demand.
We develop new distribution channels by adapting our product offering We operate in markets which are dependent on Information and investing in new formats.
We continue to monitor Technology IT systems and technological change.
contraction in the consumer book market to minimise the impact of customer bankruptcy.
We mitigate IT risks by establishing strong IT policies and operational controls, employing project management techniques to manage new software developments and or systems implementations and have implemented an array of security measures to protect our IT assets from attacks or failures that could impact the condentiality, availability or integrity of our systems.
EDUCATION REGULATION AND FUNDING Our US educational solutions and assessment businesses In the US we actively monitor changes through participation and our UK training businesses may be adversely affected in advisory boards and representation on standard setting by changes in government funding resulting from either committees.
Our customer relationship teams have detailed general economic conditions, changes in government knowledge of each state market.
We are investing in new and educational funding, programmes, policy decisions, innovative ways to expand and combine our product and legislation and or changes in the procurement processes.
services to provide a superior customer offering when compared to our competitors, thereby reducing our reliance on any particular funding stream in the US market.
We work through our own government relations team and our industry trade associations including the Association of American Publishers.
We are also monitoring municipal funding and the impact on our education receivables.
In the UK we maintain relationships with those government departments and agencies that are responsible for policy and funding.
We work proactively with them to ensure our education, training and apprenticeship programmes meet existing and new government objectives at the right quality.
Changes in the UK governments funding policy for apprenticeships affected the business model for the Pearson in Practice adult training business.
As a result, in January 2013 we announced that we will exit this particular business.
We will continue to provide training and support for young adults who wish to develop skills and enter the UK workforce through our qualications and curriculum businesses.
ECONOMIC UNCERTAINTIES Global economic conditions may adversely impact our The Groups approach to funding is described on page 27 and financial performance.
theGroups approach to the management of financial risks is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
A significant deterioration in Group profitability and or cash ow caused by prolonged economic instability could reduce our liquidity and or impair our financial ratios, and trigger a need to raise additional funds from the capital markets and or renegotiate our banking covenants.
We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in foreign currencies, particularly the US dollar, and foreign exchange rate uctuation could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 2 Our performance 33 Principal risks Mitigating factors INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS If we do not adequately protect our intellectual We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general vigilance, property and proprietary rights our co-operation with other publishers and trade associations, advances competitive position and results may be in technology, as well as recourse to law as necessary.
Digital rights adversely affected and limit our ability management standards and monitoring programmes have been to grow.
We have a piracy task force to identify weaknesses and remediate breaches.
We monitor activities and regulations in each market for developments in copyright intellectual property law and enforcement and take legal action where necessary.
EMERGING MARKETS Our investment into inherently riskier We draw on our experience of developing businesses outside emerging markets is growing and the returns our core markets and our existing international infrastructure may be lower than anticipated.
to manage specic country risks.
We continue to strengthen our financial control and managerial resources in these markets to manage expansion.
The diversication of our international portfolio, and relative size of emerging markets in relation to the Group, further minimises the effect any one territory could have on the overall Group results.
DATA PRIVACY BREACH Failure to comply with data privacy Through our global security team we have established various data privacy regulations and standards or weakness in and security programmes.
We constantly test and re-evaluate our data internet security could result in a major data security procedures and controls across all our businesses with the aim of privacy breach causing reputational damage ensuring personal data is secured and we comply with relevant legislation and to our brands and financial loss.
We pursue appropriate privacy accreditations, e. g. TRUSTe Privacy and Safe Harbor Seal.
We regularly monitor regulation changes to assess impact on existing processes and programmes.
TESTING FAILURES A control breakdown or service failure in our We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in our student marking with school assessment businesses could result in the use of robust quality assurance procedures and controls and oversight financial loss and reputational damage.
of contract performance, combined with our investment in technology, project management and skills development of our people.
Our professional services and school assessment businesses involve complex contractual In addition to the internal business procedures and controls implemented relationships with both government agencies to ensure we successfully deliver on our contractual commitments, we also and commercial customers forthe provision seek to develop and maintain good relationships with our customers to of various testing services.
Our financial results, minimise associated risks.
growth prospects and or reputation may be We also look to diversify our portfolio to minimise reliance on any adversely affected if these contracts and single contract.
ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS Failure to generate anticipated revenue We perform pre-transaction due diligence and closely monitor actual growth, synergies and or cost savings from performance to ensure we are meeting operational and financial targets.
acquisitions, mergers and other business Any divergence from these plans will result in management action to combinations could lead to goodwill and improve performance and minimise the risk of any impairments.
Executive management and the board receive regular reports on the status of acquisition and mergers.
In October 2012, we announced an agreement with Bertelsmann to combine our respective consumer publishing businesses in a newlycreated venture named Penguin Random House.
The combination is subject to customary regulatory and other approvals and is expected tocomplete in the second half of 2013.
BRAND REPUTATION PERCEPTION Our business depends on a strong brand, and We mitigate this risk through the development of comprehensive any failure to maintain, protect and enhance processes to enable our business units to effectively manage relationships our brand would hurt our ability to retain or with stakeholders, customers, communities and employees.
We have an expand our business.
ongoing process to understand and evaluate potential brand threats and monitor and evaluate information about our brand across media sources.
