GOVERNANCE Risk and uncertainties The Group considers good risk management fundamental to achieving its objectives, protecting its reputation and delivering added value.
Macro risk Summary Description Mitigation Internet The delivery of the Groups products and services are These factors are largely out of Managements control infrastructure dependent on third-party mobile and internet service although Management will continue tomonitor mobile not maintained providers continuing to expand high speed internet and internet access, infrastucture and costs closely.
access and maintain reliable networks with necessary speeds and capacity.
Changes in access fees may adversely impact the ability and or willingness of users to access the Groups content.
Macro economic The Groups revenue streams are dependent on the These factors are largely out of Managements control difficulties disposable income of its customers and the overall although Management consider the Groups revenue macro economic environment in particular for online streams to be sufficiently diverse and global that advertising and sponsorship.
Current economic any economic slowdown in one particular economy difficulties could adversely impact the Groups results.
or region should not have a material impact on the Groups results.
Government Any adverse government regulations of the Management closely monitor and review current regulation internetand betting regulations could impact and upcoming internet and betting regulations and ofthe internet theGroups results.
do not currently consider there to be a material risk and betting given the geographical and product diversity of the regulations Groupsrevenues.
Rights ination Competitors may outbid the Group for certain rights Continue to develop relationships with key and renewals or push up renewal costs.
rights-holders and continue to offer attractive commercialisation options to them.
Certain content holders such as sports bodies may decide to commercialise their own content rather than The Directors monitor the level of contract exposure selling it on which could increase competition price for and endeavour, wherever possible, to progress rights available rights.
contract negotiations well before the contracts are due to terminate, thus limiting the financial risks of With less content the Group may face decreasing such exposure.
Revenue contracts are also worded, demand for its products whilst more expensive rights where possible, to ensure rights may be replaced with may reduce the Groups margin.
rights of similar value if a rights renewal is unsuccessful during the period of the relevant contract.
Piracy of If live sport is made available via online pirate websites, Management monitor illegal use of sports content sportsrights demand for the Groups products may decline.
In closely and the appropriate legal developments.
addition if the Groups content is made avilable other Management do not consider this currently represents than in accordance with the rights-holder contracts a material risk to the Group but will continue to monitor then the Group may face liabilities penalites to the this closely and regularly.
Dependency on Any long-term postponement or cancellation of any These factors are largely out of Managements control scheduling of sports league season may impact theGroup.
although Management consider the Groups revenue live sport streams to be sufficiently diverse and global that any issue with one particular sport would not have a material impact on the Groups results.
If an event is not played the Group, typically, does not have to pay for it.
46 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Risk management and responsibility The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management process and reviews its effectiveness annually.
In 2012 the Group established a Risk Committee comprising of five members of the Groups senior management who are charged, on a quarterly basis, with reviewing the Groups risk register and the Groups risk management processes and projects to actively mitigate and manage risks.
On a day to day basis, senior management is responsible for providing visible leadership in the management of risk and ensuring that it is integrated as appropriate into the Groups business processes and activities.
The tables below identify the most significant risks identied by the Board: Operational risks Summary Description Mitigating actions Infrastructure to As the Group continues to grow it will need Management regularly review the adequacy support growth tocontinue to support its systems, infrastructure and of the Groups support functions and ensure back-office.
appropriate resource and capability to support theGroupsgrowth.
Technology The Group is highly reliant on its technology platform The Group has put in place appropriate business failure and certain other operational ITsystems.
If these continuity processes, disaster recovery systems and systems were damaged orinterrupted there could security measures to protect against network and be significant costs and disruptions to the products IT system failure or disruption.
Management closely services offered by the Group.
monitors performance of the platform and key systems both housed internally and externally and addresses any issues immediately.
Unprotected If the Group does not adequately protect customer Management consider that the Group currently has customer data account information there is a legal risk to the Group.
appropriate security controls in place to protect such data although these are closely monitored by Management on a regular basis.
Finance and legal risks Summary Description Mitigating actions Protection The Groups ability to compete may be harmed if it is The Group carefully words external contracts so as ofintellectual not able to protect its intellectual property rights.
Its to protect its intellectual property rights.
All material property rights ability to compete could also be harmed if it is unable contracts are reviewed by either the Groups in-house to use all intellectual property needed for its business.
legal team or external advisors.
The Group monitors use of its intellectual property.
Foreign A significant portion of the Groups revenues and Management prepare cashow forecasts by currency exchange risk costs are in Euros and Dollars so the Group could and attempt, where possible, to naturally hedge the potentially be exposed to adverse movements in Groups cash ow.
Management will carefully monitor those currencies.
the Groups cash ow and consider alternative arrangements in the event that there is a material unhedged exposure.
In December 2012 the Group entered into a vanilla option to sell euros in 2013.
Tax risk Adverse changes in taxation could affect the Groups Management work closely with the Groups external results and the Group could be exposed to various tax tax advisors on an ongoing basis, to mitigate its risks in various countries.
Contract The Group is continuing to expand into new countries, Management work closely with, and take the enforcement many of whom are still developing, such as in Asia, appropriate level of advice from, local external Africa and South America.
The laws and judicial advisors before entering into contracts with counter systems in these countries may make it hard for the parties in developing countries.
Management also Group to enforce key contracts.
regularly review compliance with contracts in developing countries.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 GOVERNANCE Risk and uncertainties continued Business risks Summary Description Mitigating actions W&B renewals The Group supplies live streaming video of sporting During 2013 the Groups senior management will be events to online sports bookmakers through the Groups working with existing and new customers to renew Watch&Bet product.
Watch&Bet generates a significant these licences.
proportion of the Groups overall revenue.
The current Watch&Bet license cycle ends on 31 December 2013.
Unsuccessful The Groups growth is dependent on expanding Management perform appropriate commercial geographic its products and services into new business diligence before launching a new product territory expansion andgeographic areas.
There are no assurances that and ensure that appropriate levels of staff are in place these new areas will be profitable.
to appraise and manage new products and territories.
In addition, the Group will seek to mitigate these risks by entering into local partnership arrangements, where appropriate, with local partners who can help the Group roll out its products and services in those markets.
Dependency on The Group is dependent on Watch&Bet for a significant Management closely monitor and review the online online gaming proportion of its revenues.
Any significant adverse gaming industry and regulation and do not currently regulations introduced in the gaming industry could consider there to be a material risk.
The Group has impact the Groups results.
diverse geographical revenues and continues to diversify its portfolio of products.
Retention of key The success of the Group depends in part toitsability Management have implemented a Performance Share employees to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled Plan to incentivise key senior staff over the longer employees.
The Group has also recruited a Chief Personnel Officer who starts in March 2013.
Unsuccesful Merger and acquisition activity may be unsuccessful or Management performs an appropriate level of diligence or costly M&A costly and the Group may not achieve technical and or and business planning on any acquisition to ensure activity other synergies as quickly as it anticipates.
incremental shareholder value is generated.
The Group has a Head of Corporate Development to lead M&A activity and an integration team has been built working into him and the Groups Chief Operating Officer.
Products The Group needs to develop and upgrade the Management continue to closely monitor the digital become functionality of its products and to adapt to new sports rights and media industries and encourage technologically business environments and competition.
It needs to and reward initiative and enterprise across the obsolete develop new products and services to keep up to wholeGroup.
date with developments in the digital sports rights and media industries.
This includes the risks that: There is a focus on new products with a specicfocus on the migration of content and usage to mobile.
Consumption of content by consumers could continue A dedicated Managing Director of the Groups to migrate to mobile before some of the Groups Direct-to-Consumer has been appointed to lead this products work on mobile and before some of its sales businessarea.
team are ready to sell on mobile and before it has a strategy to prevent the cannibalisation of existing web Management continue to closely review and evaluate advertising revenues: and techincal developments which could impact the The manner in which events are live streamed over the latency with which the Groups products are delivered.
internet could result in increased latency which could make some of the Groups products less attractive.
Insufficient The growth in the Groups video advertising revenues Management continue to regularly review both the quality is dependent on the Group having click-to-play video content on the Groups ePlayer in each market to advertising advertising inventory of a sufficient quality and is also ensure it has appropriate level of viewer engagement inventory dependent on the Groups advertising formats evolving to drive advertising inventory and also the products in line with the wider market.
In the event that the Groups advertising formats to ensure it remains in line with the doesnt have enough inventory or the right formats then wider market.
this may result in reduced advertising revenues.
48 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
