Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 45 higher margin non-UK business and an increasing proportion of Responsibility for the tax policy and management of tax risk rests lump-sum offshore capital projects.
EBITDA margin was signicantly withthe Chief Financial officer and Group Head of Tax who report higher in Integrated Energy Services at 27.3% 2011: 17.3%, theGroups tax position regularly to the Group Audit Committee.
primarily due to first-time profit recognition on the Berantai RSC, TheGroups tax affairs and the management of tax risk are delegated theprot resulting from the sale of75%of the share capital in to a global team of tax professionals.
thecompany holding the FPF1 and the commencement of the Magallanes and Santuario PECs.
While EBITDA margins were lower in An analysis of the income tax charge is set out in note 6 to the Onshore Engineering & Construction, which contributes the majority financial statements.
The income tax charge for the year as a of the Groups EBITDA 64% in 2012: 74% in 2011, this was more percentage of profit before tax was lower at 17.7% 2011: 20.7%.
than offset by strong growthin Integrated Energy Services, which Anumber of factors have impacted the effective tax rate including: accounted for 22% ofthe Groups EBITDA in 2012 2011: 12%.
anet release of tax provisions held in respect of income taxes, the recognition of tax losses previously unrecognised, and the mix of profits in the jurisdictions in which profits are earned.
Backlog The Groups backlog increased to US$11.8 billion at 31 December Earnings per share 2012 2011: US$10.8 billion, due to new projects in Integrated Energy Services and Offshore Projects & Operations more than Fully diluted earnings per share increased to 183.88 cents per offsetting a reduction in Onshore Engineering & Construction backlog.
share 2011: 157.13 cents, an increase of 17.0%, in line with the Groups increase in profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limitedshareholders.
Exchange rates The Groups reporting currency is US dollars.
A significant proportion Operating cash ow and liquidity of Offshore Projects & Operations revenue is generated in the UKCS approximately two-thirds and those revenues and associated Cash used in operations was US$315 million costsare generally denominated in sterling: however, there was 2011:US$1,423million generated.
littlechangein the average exchange rate for the US dollar against sterlingfor the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 and The decrease in cash generated from operations was due principally therefore little exchange rate impact on our US dollar reported results.
to the cash generated from operating profits before working capital The table below sets out the average and year-end exchange rates and other non-current items of US$907 million 2011: cash generated for the US dollar and sterling as used by the Group for financial US$796 million less net working capital outows of US$918 million reporting purposes.
2011: US$757 million inow and an increase in customer receivables within Other financial asset of US$300 million 2011: US$130 million in relation to the Berantai RSCand in respect of development of the Financial reporting exchange rates Greater Stella Area.
US$ Sterling 2012 2011 The main net working capital outows included an increase in Average rate for the year 1.59 1.60 tradeand other receivables of US$549 million 2011: US$301 million, Year-end rate 1.63 1.55 a reduction in accrued contract expenses of US$525 million 2011:US$7 million, partly offset by an increase in trade and otherpayables of US$253 million 2011: US$735 million.
Interest Net finance income for the year increased to US$7 million 2011:US$1 million, due to the unwinding of discounting of long-term receivables on the Berantai RSC.
Taxation Our policy in respect of tax is to: t operate in accordance with the terms of the Petrofac Code ofConduct t act with integrity in all tax matters t work together with the tax authorities in jurisdictions where we operate to build positive long-term relationships t where disputes occur, to address them promptly t manage tax in a proactive manner to maximise value for our customers and shareholders 46 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Financial performance and risk The other key movements in cash included: Capital expenditure Expenditure capitalised on property, plant and equipment totalled t net cash outows from investing activities of US$544 million US$430million in the year ended 31 December 2012 2011: 2011:US$523 million, including: US$435million.
The principal elements of capital expenditure capital expenditure on Integrated Energy Services projects of duringthe year were: US$433 million, predominantly in relation to the acquisition and upgrade of supporting infrastructure and eld development costs t capital expenditure on Integrated Energy Services projects of in relation to PECs and development expenditure on Block US$309 million, predominantly in relation to the acquisition and PM304, offshore Malaysia upgrade of supporting infrastructure and eld development costs other capital expenditure of US$136 million, including, assets inrelation to PECs under construction,  and ofce furniture t expenditure on assets under construction of US$53 million, and equipment whichincludes expenditures incurred in relation to our new ofce investment of a further US$25 million in Seven Energy building in the United Arab Emirates and the Groups Enterprise seenote12 to the financial statements for details Resource Planning project proceeds from the sale of 75% of the share capital in the t other capital expenditure of US$68 million, including leasehold company holding the FPFI improvements and ofce furniture and equipment t net cash outows from nancing activities of US$36 million 2011:US$227 million, including: Capital expenditure on intangible oil and gas assets during the year payment of the 2011 final dividend and 2012 interim dividend was US$165 million 2011: US$40 million including development totalling US$201 million costs in relation to Integrated Energy Services interest in Block nancing the purchase of treasury shares for the purpose of PM304, offshore Malaysia.
making awards under the Groups share schemes of US$76million US$303 million of proceeds drawn under the Groups revolving Shareholders funds credit facility see note 24 to the financial statements less Total equity at 31 December 2012 was US$1,550 million 2011: repayment of Groups term loan of US$43 million US$1,115 million.
The main elements of the net movement were: t net income taxes paid of US$83 million 2011: US$157 million netprot for the year of US$630 million, less dividends paid in the year of US$198 million and the purchase of treasury shares of The net result of the above was the Groups net cash stood at US$76million, which are held in the Petrofac Employees benefit Trust US$265 million at 31 December 2012 2011: US$1,495 million.
for the purpose of making awards under the Groups share schemes Following the drawdown under the Groups revolving credit facility, see note 22 to the financial statements.
interest-bearing loans and borrowings increased to US$349 million 2011: US$77 million, resulting in the Groups gross gearing ratio increasing to 23% 2011: 7%.
Return on capital employed The Groups return on capital employed for the year ended Gearing ratio 31December 2012 was lower at 46% 2011: 62%, in part reecting US$ millions unless otherwise stated 2012 2011 the Groups deployment of capital in the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 349 77 Cash and short-term deposits B 614 1,572 Net cash debt C B A 265 1,495 Dividends Shareholders funds D 1,550 1,115 The Company proposes a final dividend of 43.00 cents per share Gross gearing ratio A D 23% 7% forthe year ended 31 December 2012 2011: 37.20 cents, which, Net cash Net cash ifapproved, will be paid to shareholders on 24 May 2013, provided Net gearing ratio C D position position they were on the register on 19 April 2013.
Shareholders who have not elected before 26 February 2013 to receive dividends in US The Groups total gross borrowings before associated debt acquisition dollars will receive a sterling equivalent of 28.40 pence per share.
costs at the end of 2012 were US$360 million 2011: US$80 million.
The Group entered into aUS$1.2 billion five-year committed revolving Together with the interim dividend of 21.00 cents per share credit facility in September 2012, which is available for general 2011:17.40 cents, equivalent to 13.45 pence, this gives a total corporate purposes.
The majority of interest-bearing loans and dividend for the year of 64.00 cents per share 2011: 54.60 cents, borrowings at 31December 2012 is in relation to the revolving credit anincrease of 17.2%, in line with the increase in net profit.
facility seenote 24 to the financial statements.
None of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to any material restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances to the Company.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 47 Key risks The key risks that could lead to a significant loss of reputation or prevent us from delivering our five-year strategic plan are summarised here, along with our approach to mitigating these risks.
Details of how our risk framework has evolved during the year are included in the Board Risk Committee Report on page 82 to 87.
Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Sovereign, country and financial market Overexposure to a single Petrofac endeavours to ensure that its portfolio is appropriately diversied as a mitigant against See pages 13 to 17. market risk.
potential instability within specic countries or regions where the Group has an interest.
Weare diversifying our business model.
Over-concentration in a Our country exposure in higher risk jurisdictions is reviewed by the Group Risk Committee particular market or geography, whenconsidering discrete risks or entry into new countries or territories: and by the Board Risk could impact on our ability Committee who, on a quarterly basis, review the overall concentration risk.
todeliver the five-year We also take all reasonable measures to reduce and limit our commercial exposure in each strategicplan.
territory through the use of, for example, regular security risk assessments, careful selection of contracting parties, out of country arbitration, advanced payments and careful cash management.
Counterparty risk We aim to minimise our cash ow exposure on contracts and where we deploy capital alongside See our Sovereign and our services, such as in Integrated Energy Services IES.
We will only do so where we are Financial Market Risk The risk of financial or comfortable with the counterparty risk and the contractual terms and conditions.
Policy available on commercial exposure if ourwebsite: With respect to financial counterparty risk, we regularly monitor our exposure and ensure that counterparties key financial ournancial assets are spread across a large number of creditworthy financial institutions and www.
com institutions, customers, partners thatlimits are not breached.
Our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy requires that material governancedownloads subcontractors or vendors fail financial counterparty risk is only held with counterparties that are rated by Standard and Poors to perform their obligations.
as A or better or equivalent rating from Moodys.
Financial Counterparty Risk is managed by Group Treasury.
The Board Risk Committee has established specic limits for the main financial counterparties used by the Group.
Liquidity risk We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we maintain an adequate level of liquidity in the form See note 31 to the ofreadily available cash, short-term investments or committed credit facilities at all times.
The risk arising from insufcientnancial resources As the Company has grown, it is investing more of its surplus cash into strategic investments being available to meet andother opportunities, particularly in IES.
In 2012 we arranged a US$1.2bn five-year revolving liabilitiesas they fall due.
credit facility to secure additional liquidity.
The Board Risk Committee has dened a minimum level of liquidity which must be maintained bythe Group and additionally, the Board has dened a maximum level of permitted leverage.
Carefulcash ow forecasting is carried out across all service lines on a regular basis to identify anyfunding requirements well in advance.
Investment risk Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality investments and investing in the best available options.
Ineffective investment selection and development particularly in IES could Poor investment decisions lead to loss of value and higher capital expenditure.
Business disruption risk Petrofac faces a range of political risks in a variety of territories with the possibility of unforeseen Despite the unrest in regime change or legal regulatory changes.
The Board therefore regularly monitors the changing theMiddle East and Exposure to potential civil landscape of political risk, particularly in those countries regarded as high risk.
North Africa during political unrest, civil war, regime 2011 to 2012, our change or sanctions that could Security risk assessments are carried out in all high risk territories before entering into specic activities suffered adversely affect our operations.
Careful consideration is also given to project, investment and income exposures and minimal disruption, tothe review of the associated terms and conditions of contracts with customers.
Information security breaches seepage 33 for details.
may also result in the loss of In respect of the protection of electronic information, Petrofac is continually improving the security Our security and Petrofacs commercially ofits information technology infrastructure, reviewing key business processes in the context of evacuation procedures sensitive data.
information security and ensuring there is heightened consideration of information security in the are kept under review.
A new Petrofac Group Information Security Policy was produced in 2012 to increase awareness and understanding of the threat.
48 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Financial performance and risk Risk Mitigation and management Comments links Commodity or currency risk The majority of our revenues are denominated in US dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar.
See note 31 to the In contracts priced in US dollars or currencies pegged to the US dollar where the Group is financial statements for significant movements in procuring equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, we aim to hedge fully transactional details of our oil and gas exchange rates could impact exposures using forward currency contracts.
derivative instruments our financial performance.
and foreign currency Offshore Projects & Operations revenues and costs are principally denominated in sterling.
Oil and gas prices may have exposures and how Ourpolicy is not to hedge the sterling revenues generated by these activities as they are animpact on the level of new they are managed.
substantially matched by the sterling costs of our corporate ofce and other UK-based activities.
investment in the industry Over the medium term, andmay affect demand for As detailed in the operating environment section, we expect demand for our services to remain growth in the IES ourservices.
robust and not be materially impacted by short-term uctuation in oil and gas prices.
We do division is expected recognise however that as a result of threats to global economic growth, there is a risk of falling oil The financial performance of tobe primarily drivenby prices which could result in reduced or delayed activity by national oil companies NOCs and IES ismore leveraged to the Risk ServiceContracts international oil companies IOCs impacting upon future backlog and margins.
priceofoil and gas through its andProduction Production Sharing Contracts Under our Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy we aim to hedge, on a rolling annual basis, Enhancement equity positions.
the net profit exposure resulting from at least 75% of our low-estimate of hydrocarbon production.
Contracts, where we We will not undertake hedging until a development has achieved steady-state production.
have no direct oil and gas price exposure.
Operational and contractual Customer concentration risk The Board regularly monitors the total value of contracts by customer to ensure that we are not There are a number overly dependent upon any one customer.
We have a widely disaggregated customer base in the ofrelevant policies Overexposure to any one ECOM division and are working towards a larger portfolio of clients for the growing IES business.
under our operating customer could have a framework for managing significant impact if that The Companys strategy is to disaggregate the business further in terms of its service lines, these risks, such as the customer relationship locations, and business models.
Furthermore, we have a formal programme to ensure that we maintain a regular dialogue with our Contractual RiskPolicy.
major customers at a senior level to appreciate their future plans and to understand any concerns they may have with regard to our performance.
Competition risk As noted in the operating environment section, we expect the demand for our services to remain See page 17 for details robust over the long term, albeit we face significant competition in many of our markets.
of how we plan to Risk that we lose our strategic deliver Integrated market position or geographic Our five-year strategic plans assume that a high level of competition continues, however, our Energy Services.
geographic and service line expansion, including the provision of IES, has helped to grow the size ofthe addressable market for our services.
Bid Win ratios and segmental competition is regularly analysed to monitor this risk.
Environmental, asset Major accidents or incidents although low probability, or a failure to manage these risks Recorded incident integrity or safety risks effectively, could result in injury, loss of life, damage to the environment, and or loss of certain datameasures our facilities, with the associated loss of production, or costs associated with mitigation, recovery, effectiveness in A serious environmental, asset compensation and fines.
managing health, safety integrity or health and safety and environmental risks incident on any of our projects Petrofac is also subject to health and safety laws in numerous jurisdictions around the world and seepages 28 and 29 has the potential to cause failure to comply with such laws could signicantly impact the Groups reputation, affecting the fordetails.
significant commercial and willingness of stakeholders to work with the Group.
As we enter new geographical markets, sometimes with new customers and partners, and assume responsibility for new infrastructure, it is particularly important that our focus on these issues is maintained.
Our strong culture of health, safety and environmental awareness is central to our operational and business activities.
This culture is supported by our Company operating framework and its associated management processes and systems: for example our Asset Integrity Framework.
We have a wide variety of controls embedded within our HSSEIA processes: Safety Case management: Major Accident Hazard risk assessments and audits: together with regular monitoring of integrity management and maintenance schedules.
Management teams also review the commercial arrangements with clients, maintain emergency preparedness plans and review insurance coverage.
Contractual performance Successful project delivery is fundamental to Petrofacs operating performance.
A substantial See our Operational and risk variation in cost or schedule could constitute a significant risk to the Groups reputation and Contractual Risk Policy nancialposition.
available on Our financial performance could ourwebsite: be signicantly affected by the We do however, have a strong track record of successful project execution which reects our performance of a relatively small rigorous approach to risk identication and mitigation, from bid submission through to project www.
com number of large contracts.
Progress on key projects is formally reported to the Board and senior management governancedownloads who receive detailed risk analyses on a regular basis.
Our design integrity assurance process involves the robust challenge of design specications, whether or not they are dened by the customer, including peer-review assessment and ongoing reviews of integrity risk are undertaken throughout the life of a project.
Our subcontractor risk management strategy involves the retention of competent subcontractors with a track record of delivery.
We have a number of strong subcontractor relationships with proven high quality companies that we seek to work with wherever possible.
We seek to avoid the acceptance of any liabilities that are unquantifiable or for which we could not reasonably be regarded as responsible, including losses of a consequential nature.
We monitor the adequacy of insurance provision and the extent to which we can bear the financial consequences of a catastrophe.
