There is an ongoing process in place for Principal Risks and Uncertainties identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which The Groups risk management has operated throughout the financial year.
framework is designed to support This process involves regular assessment of the Groups risk register by the Audit the process for identifying, evaluating Committee.
In line with best practice the and managing risk.
The risk framework, register includes an assessment of the impact and likelihood of each risk together which is the responsibility of the Finance with the controls in place to manage the risk.
Director, governs the management The Groups risk management framework and control of both financial and is designed to support this process and is the responsibility of the Finance Director.
The risk framework governs the management and control of both financial and nonfinancial risks.
Internal audit is undertaken by an independent firm of chartered accountants who develop an annual internal audit plan having reviewed the Groups risk register and following discussions with external auditors, management and members of the Audit Committee.
During the period the Audit Committee has reviewed reports covering the work undertaken as part of the annual internal audit plan.
This has included assessment of the general control environment, identification of control weaknesses, quantification of any associated risk together with a review of the status of actions to mitigate these risks.
The Audit Committee has also received reports from management in relation to specific risk items together with reports from external auditors, who consider controls only to the extent necessary to form an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The principal risks and corresponding mitigation set out below represent the principal uncertainties that may impact the Groups ability to effectively deliver its strategy in the future.
22 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
