Risks Relating to the Group Risk Impact Mitigating Actions A decline in the sales of certain A decline in sales of key brands or a failure to The Group offers a range of brands that it renew trading agreements on favourable terms manufactures and distributes through a cross key brands, a deterioration in could have an adverse impact on the Groups section of trade channels and retailers.
Performance the relationship with a specific sales and operating profits.
is monitored closely by the board and management customer or a consolidation or committee.
This includes monitoring and tracking reduction of the customer base.
of metrics which review brand equity strength, together with monitoring of financial and operational performance.
The Group focuses heavily on delivering high quality products and invests heavily in building brand equity.
Regular contact is maintained with all of the Groups customers and members of the senior management team meet with customers throughout the year.
Adverse publicity in relation Adverse publicity in relation to the Group or its It remains the Groups policy to ensure that brands could have an adverse impact on the employees operate within the boundaries of to the Group or its brands.
Groups reputation, sales and operating profits.
compliance in the areas of legislation, health and safety and ethical working standards and these are continually reviewed by the board and management committee.
Within the Group there is a clearly defined and communicated Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Quality standards, both at our sites and those of suppliers, are well defined, implemented and measured.
Failure or unavailability The Group would be affected if there was a Assets within the Group are proactively managed catastrophic failure of its major production or whether this be intangible brand assets, plant of the Groups operational distribution facilities which led to a loss in and equipment, people or IT systems.
Robust disaster recovery and incident management plans exist and are formally tested.
Contingency measures are in place and are regularly tested.
Interruption in, or change in the The packaging and raw material components that The Group adopts centralised purchasing the Group uses for the production of its soft drink arrangements to ensure the best possible terms terms of, the Groups supply of products are largely commodities that are subject to are negotiated.
price and supply volatility that could have an adverse impact on the Groups sales and operating profits.
Contingency measures exist and are tested regularly.
Supplier performance is reviewed on a monthly basis and audits are undertaken for major suppliers.
Overall commodity risks are reviewed and managed by the Treasury Committee whose remit and authority levels are set by the board.
The Treasury Committees remit focuses on the unpredictability of the cost of supply and seeks to minimise potential related adverse effects on the Groups financial performance through either forward purchasing or hedging known commodity requirements.
Failure of Information The maintenance and development of Information IT assets within the Group are proactively managed Technology systems may result in systems failures and procedures exist that support rapid and Technology systems.
which may adversely impact the Groups ability clean recovery.
Inability to protect the intellectual Failure to maintain the Groups intellectual The Group invests considerable effort property rights could result in the value of our property rights associated in proactively protecting the intellectual property brands being eroded.
rights associated with its current and future with current and future brands.
brands, through trademark registration and legal enforcement as and when required.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued Risks Relating to the Group Continued Risk Impact Mitigating Actions Financial Risks.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial Financial risks are reviewed and managed by the risks which include market risk including medium term Treasury Committee whose remit and authority movements in exchange rates, interest rate risk and levels are set by the board.
commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Treasury Committee seeks to minimise adverse In the poor economic climate the risk of customer effects on the Groups financial performance through insolvency is increased.
hedging known currency exposures whilst reviewing the appropriateness of the interest rate hedging policy throughout the year.
The Groups finance team reviews cashflow forecasts throughout the year, with headroom against banking covenants assessed regularly.
The finance team uses external tools to assess credit limits offered to customers, manages trade receivable balances vigilantly and takes prompt action on overdue accounts.
Change programmes may not A number of change programmes designed to improve Appropriate governance structures are put in place the effectiveness and efficiency of the end to end to provide the required structures and frameworks deliver the benefits intended.
operating, administrative and financial systems and to supervise, monitor, control, direct and manage processes continue to be undertaken.
risk that these programmes will not fully deliver the expected operational benefits within the timescales These structures review the scope, project expected.
There is also the risk that the change plan, resources and monitor progress against programmes lead to disruption to production, set deliverables.
administrative and financial processes and could impact customer service or operating margins.
External support is utilised when the Group is unable to support the project solely from internal resources.
Increasing funding needs or The triennial valuation of the Groups defined benefit The Groups Finance team works closely with the pension scheme may highlight a worsening funding Pension Trustees to ensure that an appropriate obligations in respect of the Groups position that requires the Group to invest additional Investment Strategy is in place to fund future pension scheme arrangements.
cash contributions to meet future liabilities.
pension requirements at acceptable risk levels.
24 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012
