Governance The risks outlined here are those Key Risks principal risks and uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They do Achieving Playtechs strategic goals not include all the risks associated with Group activities and are not set out in while minimising some of the key any order of priority.
How these risks are identified is described in the Corporate risks the business faces will deliver Governance section on pages 33 to 36. sustainability and long-term growth.
Business Risk Management at Playtech Regulatory Risk Integrated Business Risk Risk Management Financial Risk Audit Committee Playtech Board Management Committee System Other Risks The Regulatory Environment: Impacts on Reputation and Revenues Risk Mitigation The Group holds a number of licences for its activities from The Group has an established compliance function that maintains regulators, principally for its activities as a software provider issued relationships with regulators, monitors the regulatory environment by the UK Gambling Commission and the Alderney Gambling closely and ensures continuation of all necessary licences and permits Control Commission.
Loss of all or any of these licences may that allow the Group to continue its current business.
adversely impact on the revenues and or reputation of the Group.
Risk Mitigation The Group licences its products to operators in the online gambling As an established regulated supplier to the online gambling industry, industry whose ability to operate in any jurisdiction may be impacted by the Company is vigilant over legal and regulatory issues that could apply changes in regulations, or failure to obtain any necessary licences.
Laws to its activities not only in those jurisdictions where the Company is and regulations relating to the supply of gambling services are complex, located, but also in the jurisdictions where its licensees are operating inconsistent and evolving and the Group may be subject to such laws using Playtechs software and services.
Under the terms of its licences, indirectly, insofar as it has assisted the supply to licensees who are the Group prohibits the acceptance of players from jurisdictions such themselves subject to such laws and so subject to enforcement risks.
as the US where the acceptance of bets is clearly prohibited and the enforcement risk is considered to be highest.
Risk Mitigation New licensing regimes may impose licensing conditions, such The Group closely monitors developments in jurisdictions seeking as the requirement to locate significant technical infrastructure to introduce new licensing regimes and seeks to establish joint venture within the relevant territory or establish and maintain real-time data relationships, or other close contractual relationships, with key local interfaces with the regulator that present operational challenges, operators with influence on the development of local regulation.
or may prohibit the ability of licensees to offer the full range of the In addition, through the participation of the Group in industry bodies Groups products.
such as the Remote Gambling Association, it seeks to influence the shape of new licensing regulations.
Changes in Taxation of Group Revenue: Impacts on Net Earnings Risk Mitigation The Group benefits from favourable arrangements in some of the The Group works closely with its tax advisers to review its tax jurisdictions in which it is established.
Changes in taxation legislation position, undertake periodic tax audits and monitor any changes and rates may impact the Groups net earnings and cash flows.
48 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts The Competitive Landscape: May Lead to Loss of Customers and Revenues Risk Mitigation The gambling industry is extremely competitive and so is the related The Group continues to invest significant resources in research software and services industry that supports it.
Failure to compete and development in order to enhance its technology, products effectively may result in the loss of licensees and also the inability and services, and in making strategic acquisitions to broaden the to attract new licensees.
range of technologies and products that it can offer to licensees.
The Economic Climate: May Lead to Loss of Customers and Revenues Risk Mitigation The economic climate remains challenging and uncertain.
While the Playtechs licensees are geographically diverse, which should mitigate performance of the business has been resilient so far, that may not always relianace on any particular region.
Management closely monitors be the case and consumer discretionary spending could be diverted away business performance and if a downturn were to occur remedial action, from gaming and the Groups revenues would fall.
comensurate with the nature and scale of the slow down, could be taken.
Reliance on Key Personnel: Impacts on Revenues Risk Mitigation The Groups future success depends in large part on the continued The Group has introduced a comprehensive performance evaluation service of executive directors, senior managers and key personnel, system to identify key talent and to ensure that key personnel are the retention of whom cannot be guaranteed.
appropriately rewarded and incentivised through a mixture of annual bonuses and long-term incentives linked to the attainment of business objectives and revenue growth.
Business Continuity and Technology Risk: Impacts on Revenues Risk Mitigation Following William Hills exercise of its call option over the Groups stake in The Board intends to use the cash proceeds, in the best interests of WHO, that the Board cannot replace the revenue derived from that stake shareholders at that time, which may include all or any of the following: and the Groups performance declines.
funding of further acquisitions, the establishment of new joint ventures, the development of new technologies or a capital return to shareholders.
Risk Mitigation The Group derived material levels of profit from associates, and The Group is committed to the success of all of its customers and partners failure to manage effectively the Groups Partnerships may reduce and meets regularly with them to agree strategies to increase the these levels of profit, and or damage to the Groups ability to profitability of the ventures and to maintain good working relationships.
enter into future such relationships.
Risk Mitigation The Group and its licensees are constantly vulnerable to hacking, The Group adopts industry-standard protections to detect any Distributed Denial of Service DDoS attacks, malicious acts intrusion or other security breeches, together with preventative and cybercrime.
measures safeguarding against sabotage, hacking, viruses and cybercrime.
The Group works continuously to improve the robustness and security of the Groups information technology systems.
In addition, the Group has put in place disaster recovery processes.
Risk Mitigation The Groups ability to compete effectively depends amongst The Group registers patents and trademarks, where this is possible, other things, on its ability to protect, register and enforce, to protect key aspects of its intellectual property.
In addition, as appropriate, its intellectual property rights.
proprietary and or confidential information, and IP is protected through legal and physical security process and Playtech vigorously defends itself against third-party claims.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49
