Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 62 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Risks and uncertainties Introduction The Principal Risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised below.
The disclosure of risks and uncertainties in the table below reflects the ethos of the Company to also look for the opportunities presented when addressing significant risks.
The Principal Risks are formally reviewed in total, twice per year by the Board and monthly by an Executive management committee focused on capacity and effectiveness of the organisation.
Updates in terms of emerging risks or significant actions undertaken are addressed as and when required at Board meetings.
Management also reviews strategic, operational, and financial and compliance risks in regular focused forums during the year, for example, a monthly review of capacity and effectiveness acrossthe organisation and enterprise wide risks: quarterly business reviews with each of the businesses: monthly business agenda reviews with the senior business and functional management: six weekly operations forums, covering major programmes and projects: and at other key executive management meetings.
Risks and uncertainties Mitigating actions Opportunity European economy and banking sector We have embedded processes which drive working capital management and cash flow at Group Our focus on delivery of our strategy, along with the insights continue to deteriorate andacross our businesses.
We also have proven agility in driving cost reduction and working capital.
provided from datafrom our web channels, means we are Our banking facilities and relationships are kept under constant review and action taken when required.
The business regularly reviews its Euro cash deposits and collects unutilised cash on a regular basis.
Competitive advantage in the web We are continuously driving improvement to our transactional and Community websites, including The continued investment in and development of web channel is not maintained our industry leading EDE Community and other web innovations such as the Knode.
We have functionality provides value to customers, meets their recently established a data management group aimed at enhancing the presentation: quality requirements for information and provides Premier Farnell andavailability of the information required by our customers.
withinsights to help decision making processes.
Our Web Advisory Board includes external subject matter experts, to provide advice and guidance to the Board and eCommerce team on the core areas of ourweb strategy.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Risks and uncertainties Mitigating actions Opportunity Recruitment, development or retention Our high potential talent is identified and nurtured through agreed development plans including a The creation of a high performing actively engaged team oftalented people comprehensive mentoring programme as well as a focus on succession planning for our key whichwill consequently lead to improved business leadership positions.
By focusing on training and development, , leadership, social responsibility, and We actively measure the retention of talent within our organisation which provides us with the communications, the number of employees who are actively ability to track trends and act with the appropriate and necessary actions.
engaged at Premier Farnell is 77%, in the top quartile relative We conduct annual employee engagement surveys to enable progress of our people actions tobe tothe high performing benchmark.
monitored and areas of improvement identified and actions put in place.
Our reward schemes are continuously evaluated to drive and reward performance and ensure retention of key talent.
As we drive significant change throughout the organisation our competency development and evaluation processes are focused on encouraging change agility.
Through the strengthening of our diversity and inclusion team, the Groups focus on employee individuality, diversity and creativity has significantly increased.
Development of talent through transfer across the business through international assignments.
Data and content quality inhibit A dedicated data function has been established to ensure compliance with internal processes and Continued investment in data and data management processes effectiveness of our eCommerce strategy external regulations.
to provide our customers with high quality product information A data strategy and governance framework has also been developed to support the information and suppliers with rich insights into customer behaviour.
requirements of our strategic programmes.
Insufficient progress with strategic We have a fully integrated multi-channel sales and marketing plan aimed at addressing the needs We are leveraging the combination of commerce, community and implementation in North America of our EDE customers.
our element14 brand in the US to win market share and attract Delivery of strategic transformation in North America is led by a high calibre team with regular EDEs to our online environment.
reviews of the business progress by the executive team.
Failure to leverage the investment made Ongoing focus from CEO, COO and senior leadership team on the development of the Asia Pacific Continue to invest and effect structural growth in our key Asia in Asia Pacific and develop a mature, markets in accordance with our strategic intent.
robust growing business Best practice and personnel leveraged from around the Group to ensure delivery, with an Develop strong customer loyalty and market share growth in all experienced President from the Group appointed to lead the Asia Pacific business in January 2012. ofour Asia Pacificmarkets.
Progress is measured against our business agenda metrics including customer acquisition and retention: markets sales per day growth and overall margin and profitability targets.
Regional management has been strengthened to support execution against the proposition in the region and in each Asia Pacific market.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2012 64 OvERvIEW STRATEgIC FOCuS BuSINESS REvIEW gOvERNANCE FINANCIAl STATEMENTS Risks and uncertainties continued Risks and uncertainties Mitigating actions Opportunity Change programmes do not deliver We continue to challenge the way we operate and have ongoing plans to improve platforms, We are continually improving our customer experience targeted benefits systems and processes.
All our programmes have the appropriate governance, with direct throughenhanced systems and processes underpinning sponsorship of CEO, CFO and COO for all major change programmes and with clear benefit ourmulti-channel, high service offering.
realisation implementation plans and programme assurance processes.
Competitive pressures We continue to focus on product, margin and our high service proposition to drive profitable growth.
We have implemented strategic initiatives to build customer We have business intelligence processes to maintain our awareness of market developments and loyalty and initiatives targeted at vertical market segments, competitor actions, along with our market share for the Group and at a detailed market level.
whichprovide a differentiated proposition for our customer We continue to build our high service proposition by adding new technologies and a broad range base.
The fragmentation of the marketplace allows us of products.
We also lead in innovation for our customers through our web channels, for example opportunities given our strengths of global reach and financial with the Knode and by providing end-to-end solutions for EDEs through Services Beyond Product.
position to win business and create further barriers to entry fromsmaller competitors.
Significant failure or inefficiencies in our Business continuity plans are kept under review for all our locations.
As an example of these We continually improve workflows and operational efficiencies systems and infrastructure contingencies, we have the ability to switch order fulfilment in Europe between our Leeds and and provide increased capacity and investment in capability.
Contingency plans are in place for our US warehouse and management Allofthese allow the greater support of customers future systems.
We have maintained an ongoing review of our IT infrastructure and conduct regular requirements, suppliers future needs and the ability to leverage testing of our systems.
We will invest in our back-office systems to support our single front-end information as an asset.
web platform over the next three to five years.
Legal risks We have exposure to a number of countries and their respective legal compliance requirements The increase in environmental legislation for electronics, such are addressed through a variety of controls.
Trade compliance is a specific significant requirement asthe introduction of REACH, allows us to provide real value which is controlled through an experienced specialist team, automated screening enablers and toour customers through our legislativeexpertise.
ongoing training of our salesteams.
Compliance committee meetings are held with senior management at Group and within the regions.
