Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT High ethical standards PREMIER IS COMMITTED TO APPLYING THE HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS NECESSARY TO MAINTAIN OUR REPUTATION AS A WORLD-CLASS OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION COMPANY.
Our reputation for doing the right thing enables us to access new licences, enter new countries, build lasting relationships with local communities and ultimately to secure our licence to operate.
We recognise that our licence to operate as an international upstream oil and gas company has to be earned through responsible behaviour that does not compromise the wellbeing of current or future generations.
We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our investment and operational decisions take appropriate account of the impacts that might arise from our activities.
These policies cover business ethics, human rights, human resources, health, safety and environment, and community investment.
All policies are compliant with relevant legislation and take due account of appropriate standards, industry guidance and relevant best practice.
Premier commissions independent reviews or audits of its policies and their supporting management systems to evaluate compliance with the requirements of the following bodies: the Global Reporting Initiative GRI : the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010: the Carbon Disclosure Project: FTSE4Good and the United Nations Global Compact of which Premier is a signatory.
This report summarises how we have evolved, applied and delivered on our stated policies in 2012, and we explain any areas where we have not complied.
Additional insight into each area is reported in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2012.
The Corporate Responsibility Report 2012, together with further details on our policies and procedures are available on our website at www.
32 Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Business ethics INTEGRITY, HONESTY AND FAIRNESS ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO THE WAY WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS.
WE WILL NOT ENGAGE IN ANY ACTIVITIES, INCLUDING BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION IN ANY FORM, THAT UNDERMINE THE LEGITIMATE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO TRANSPARENCY IN ALL OF OUR DEALINGS.
Our Global Code of Conduct In June 2011, Premier issued its Global Code of Conduct and the associated due diligence process.
The Code is available in both English and Bahasa Indonesia for those employees and contractors based at our operations in Indonesia.
It is compliant with the United Kingdom Bribery Act and covers the following key areas: anti-corruption: facilitation payments: gifts and hospitality given and received : charitable and political donations: and appointment of intermediaries.
Scope of application The Code of Conduct applies to employees at every level in the business and those associated with Premier such as contractors: all of whom are required to behave ethically and with personal integrity.
This includes adhering to laws in the countries in which we operate, explore and have joint venture interests.
All employees and associates are required to perform their duties in accordance with the Code of Conduct, and to disclose any potential and actual conflicts between personal interests and those of Premier.
The Code of Conduct requires all transactions relating to Premier to be recorded in proper detail and according to applicable accounting and reporting standards.
Any breach of the Code of Conduct will result in disciplinary action, and in extreme cases will result in instant dismissal.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in monitoring ethical business conduct as well as the effectiveness of the Code of Conduct and its supporting policies.
Training and monitoring Our Legal team delivered a comprehensive set of workshops on the Code of Conduct and its requirements to all business units worldwide during 2011 and 2012.
Each of our business units is analysed for risks relating to corruption, some being more exposed than others depending on geography and area of work.
The content of our training was refined to take account of local nuances and cultural norms and thus better equip local teams to manage business ethics risks.
An online training course was established in 2012 and was completed by all employees and consultants.
All new employees are expected to complete the ethics training programme within one month of joining the company.
A briefing on the content of the Code of Conduct is also included in the induction programme for all new employees and consultants.
Whistle-blowing hotline Premier encourages employees, contractors and agency workers to voice their concerns to line managers if they think the company or anyone working on behalf of the company has not acted in accordance with the Code of Conduct.
Premier provides a confidential and well-publicised independent third party reporting hotline for employees that feel unable to raise concerns in the normal way.
This hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
No reports were made through this service in 2012 or at any point over the last three years.
No incidents of corruption or non-compliance with the Code were identified in 2012.
Premier Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements 33 Human rights IN 2012, PREMIER CONDUCTED A REVIEW OF ITS HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY AGAINST BEST PRACTICE STANDARDS SUCH AS THE UNITED NATIONS GUIDING PRINCIPLES ON BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE POSITION OF OUR PEERS IN THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR.
Our revised policy more explicitly recognises the moral, reputational and operational value of respecting and promoting human rights both inside and outside of our company.
It includes the need to: engage with stakeholders in our efforts to respect and promote these rights: recognise the development and cultural rights of external stakeholders as basic human rights: recognise our responsibility to respect the rights of indigenous people in all countries where we operate: help prevent, manage and resolve conflict where we are in a position to do so: ensure we are in no way involved or associated with the issue of forced, involuntary or child labour: ensure our security practices do not undermine the human rights of local communities: encourage joint venture partners to adopt the principles in this policy: consider withdrawal from relationships with business partners where there is no evidence that they are moving towards the application of international human rights standards: and use our legitimate influence to promote human rights outside our areas of operation.
Our Human Rights Policy is based on the fundamental rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is guided by those rights enshrined in the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organisation and by the United Nations Global Compact principles.
Our policy addresses the rights of our employees including their health and safety as well as their security arrangements and working conditions: and the development rights of our external stakeholders, in particular local communities.
Further detail on our performance and alignment with this policy is included in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2012.
There were no reported violations of our Human Rights Policy in the review period.
