Principal risks and uncertainties On behalf of and in consultation with the Board of Directors, the Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The table below highlights the major risks identified which may affect the Groups ability to deliver its strategy and the measures taken to address them.
Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Market risks Political and The Group conducts a substantial proportion The Group has a diverse geographic portfolio, however, economic stability of its operations outside the UK in emerging in developing its corporate strategy and in order to help markets which have significant capacity mitigate the risk that could arise in any one particular for profitable growth but which also have territory, the Board seeks to maintain an appropriate an increased risk of political and economic balance both between mature and emerging markets and, instability.
within the developing world, between its operations in different territories.
In addition, the Group has extensive and long established experience in all key markets and the Board continually monitors those markets to ensure that any specific risks or opportunities may be identified and addressed as they arise.
Demand risks Demand for the Groups products may Extensive knowledge of the Groups selected markets be adversely impacted by changes in is a core strategic pillar and the Group actively monitors consumer preferences.
the needs and aspirations of consumers on a regular and ongoing basis and is continuously developing new The increasingly competitive environment products to satisfy them.
The Group will continue to and continued growth of discounters could invest in selected brands and selected markets in order adversely impact the rate of sales growth to drive profitable sales growth.
The Board believes that and profit margins.
competition is healthy as it encourages and motivates the Groups operations across the world to do their best to serve the interests of consumers and our brands.
Raw materials In common with other companies within its The Group takes measures to protect against the sector, the Groups profitability is affected short-term impact of these fluctuations and shortfalls: by price and supply fluctuations in raw however, failure to recover higher costs or shortfalls in materials used in the manufacture of its availability could have a negative impact on profits.
Key items, such as oils and fats, Group continually monitors the price and availability of packaging materials and energy are subject materials against forecast demand to ensure that there are to fluctuations in price and availability.
adequate resources to continue in production throughout the world.
The Group also continues to refine its raw material forecasting processes and to strengthen its procurement capabilities.
PZ Cussons Plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Financial risks Foreign currency The international nature of the Groups The Group requires its operating units to hedge their material and treasury risk activities gives rise to both transactional transaction exposures on sales and purchases conducted in exchange rate risk with the main exposure currencies other than their functional currencies.
The Group relating to US Dollar trade balances and does not actively hedge its translation exposures as these translation exposure when the results, are of an accounting rather than a cash nature: however, the assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries international spread of the Groups operations itself reduces are translated into Sterling.
The Group maintains a centralised treasury function which operates on a non-speculative basis in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors and reviewed during the year by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The aim of this function is to mitigate the effects of any adverse movements in exchange rates and interest rates on the Groups financial results and support operating units in treasury matters.
The current uncertainty over the Eurozones Throughout the Eurozone uncertainty the Group has economic outlook and Greeces future ensured that surplus funds in Minerva have been repatriated within the single currency is a risk given the to the UK parent company and held in Sterling.
It is not Group has a Greek operating unit.
If Greece possible for the Group to hedge against the risk of a was to leave the Eurozone, it is likely that devaluation in the carrying value of the Greek investment any replacement currency would devalue or the value of future income from Minerva if the Drachma against the Euro Sterling and reduce: is reinstated.
Overall, the Group does not have a significant the carrying value of the Groups exposure to the Eurozone given the geographic spread of investment in Minerva: the operating units however, the Board will continue to cash reserves in Minerva: and closely monitor the situation in Greece in an attempt to future income streams when converted minimise any potential impact.
Operational risks Staff retention and The Group recognises that in order to deliver The Board believes that there is an attractive employment recruitment sustained strong results it requires the right proposition across the Group in place which will continue calibre of people at all levels of the business.
to attract capable recruits and that key management and In particular, the Group must compete to personnel are sufficiently well recognised, incentivised recruit and retain capable individuals within and challenged in order to retain them as far as possible.
the business including training them in the skills and competencies which are required to deliver profitable growth.
Reputation risks Should the Group fail to meet high product Product safety, social, environmental and ethical standards safety, social, environmental and ethical continue to be the cornerstones on which our business is standards in all operations and activities, based.
They are key focus areas for the Corporate Social its corporate reputation could be damaged, Responsibility Committee, a standing sub-committee leading to the rejection of our products by of the Board.
Should any issues arise in these areas, the consumers, damage to brands and diversion Group has processes in place to enable a quick response.
of management time into rebuilding our reputation.
PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19
