Z E hE Zd Ed EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF RISKS Risks are assessed according to the The authority, resources and coordinaon The risk register is reiewed by the Board likelihood of an eents occurrence and of those inoled in the idencaon, and, in addion, the risk owners present its impact, both from a financial and assessment and management of the an update of current status and migang non-financial standpoint.
The Group Risk significant risks the organisaon faces: acons by rotaon throughout the year.
Register includes an analysis of the potenal The response to the significant eposures and seerity of each risk as a risks which hae been idened funcon of its likelihood and impact, the by management and others: assumpons underlying each risk and the The monitoring of reports from Group migaon required to manage it.
The Group management: Risk Register is reiewed by the Eecue Team and considers: The maintenance of a control enironment directed towards the proper management of risk.
Z W D Current plans of both h and h Goernments are YineY has capitalised on increased h and h Goernment to drawdown troops from Afghanistan by the end spending on technology in support of operaons in Iraq and of 2014.
A significant shi in policy by either the h Afghanistan.
In parcular, YineY has eperienced strong Administraon or the h Goernment, which resulted demand for hnmanned Ground Vehicles and suriability in a significant reducon in the number of forces products across the duraon of both campaigns.
The focus on personnel present in Afghanistan, or a change in operaonal support in defence, on both sides of the Atlanc, the ming, may hae a materially aderse impact has howeer, gien rise to a decline in defence ependiture on the Groups financial performance.
in other areas, such as serices to improe procurement eciency and innoae research.
The Group migates this by maintaining a market focus and compee posioning in adjacent markets, including defence serices which are not directly conict-related, aerospace, security and intelligence, which proides a degree of porolio diersicaon.
The trategic Defence and ecurity Reiew in the h, Our focus on a range of markets in defence, security and h h the h Presidenal elecon, and the financial burden on intelligence, proides a degree of porolio diersicaon. '
both h and h Goernment budgets from the current The Group will connue to reiew trends in defence, economic downturn, will lead to reduced spending in aerospace and security ependiture in order to align the the markets in which the Group operates.
In parcular, business with those trends.
The h Goernment is inesng the h is reducing its defence budget by 8% in real an addional 650m in cyber capability, which oers some terms by 2015 and, in addion, is seeking to remoe opportunity to the Group.
significant oer-heang in its equipment programme.
In the h, federal esmates indicate that DoD spending will reduce by 5% in 2013 and fall further in 2014, followed by a 2% annual increase through to 2017.
Any reducon in Goernment defence and security spending in either the h or the h could hae an aderse impact on the Groups financial performance.
The amounts payable under some Goernment The contract and orders pipeline is regularly reiewed contracts can be significant and the ming of the receipt by senior operaonal management.
of orders could hae a material impact on the Groups performance in a gien reporng period.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 & d YY d ' Z W D & The Group operates a dened benefit pension scheme Pension scheme performance is reiewed regularly by Group in the h. There is currently a deficit between the management, in conjuncon with the schemes independent projected liability of the scheme and the alue of the trustees.
Eternal actuarial and inestment adice is also assets it holds.
The size of the deficit may be materially taken on a regular basis to ensure that the scheme is managed aected by a number of factors, including inaon, in the best interests of both the Group and of the schemes inestment returns, changes in interest rates, and members.
The most recent triennial funding aluaon of the improements in life epectancy.
An increase in the scheme, as at 30 June 2011, resulted in a deficit of 74.7m.
deficit may require the Group to increase the cash The Group and trustees hae agreed a package of measures contribuons to the scheme, which would reduce to enhance the security of the scheme, including deficit the Groups cash aailable for other purposes.
recoery payments oer si years, the use of CPI rather than RPI for indeaon purposes, and an asset-backed funding programme.
The net funding aluaon of the scheme is at 30 June 2014.
W The Group proides serices to defence customers that The Group takes proace steps to manage any potenal meet their needs as part of the defence supply chain OCI and to maintain its ability to proide independent adice and also as technical adisor through its consultancy through its consulng and systems engineering acies.
The future growth of the business could In the h, a formal compliance regime operates with the be compromised should our key customers current MOD to monitor and assess potenal OCI as part of the K atudes to policies change.
In March 2012, the Group agreed with the MOD that the Company could adopt the generic compliance regime in use with other companies, in place of the YineY-specic one preiously in operaon.
This change will not aect the rigour of the compliance process.
d YineY is liable to pay ta in the countries in which Eternal adice and consultaon is sought on potenal it operates, principally in the h and the h. Changes changes in ta legislaon in both the h and the h. This in the ta legislaon in these countries could hae an enables the Group to plan for and migate potenal aderse impact on the leel of ta paid on the profits changes in legislaon.
The Group is currently acely generated by the Group.
engaging with HM Treasury on the proposal to moe R&D ta credits out of the ta charge and aboe the line into operang profit.
If this proposal is implemented, it could increase the Groups Eece Ta Rate oer me towards a blend of the h and h corporaon ta rates.
The ong-Term Partnering Agreement TPA is a The Group connues to achiee customer performance 25-year contract to proide a ariety of ealuaon, and sasfacon leels, and signicantly eceeded the ' tesng and training serices to the MOD.
The original agreed minimum performance rang of 80% in 2012. contract was signed in 2003.
The TPA operates under While achieing the performance scores, the Group e-year periods with specic programmes, targets and has achieed significant cost saings for the MOD on performance measures set for each period.
2008, the Group signed-up to a second e-year period of the TPA with the MOD.
The net break point is in 2013 and the Group is working with the MOD on the associated reiew.
In the current year, the TPA directly contributed 12% of the Groups reenue and supported a further 7% through tasking serices using TPAmanaged facilies.
The loss, cancellaon or terminaon of, or significant reducon in, this contract would hae a material, aderse impact on the Groups future reported performance.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Z E hE Zd Ed KEd Eh Z W D d ' In the h, the Group undertakes work that is deemed The Group has procedures in place to ensure that these to be of importance to h naonal security and, under arrangements remain eece and to respond to any h the foreign ownership regulaons, arrangements are changes that might occur in h atudes to foreign in place to insulate these acies from undue foreign ownership of such acies.
This secon entled inuence as a result of foreign ownership.
Failure to Management and control of h subsidiaries on page 43 comply with the regulaons could result in sancons, of this report proides details of the proy agreement and suspension or debarment from Goernment between YineY North America and the h DoD, that contracts, as well as reputaonal damage to the regulates the ownership, management and operaon YineY brand.
& The Group operates in a highly-regulated enironment The Group has procedures and, where appropriate, and the majority of its reenue is generated from sales training in place to ensure that it meets all current in the h and the h. The Group is subject to numerous regulaons.
Together, these ensure the Group manages, domesc and internaonal laws, including import both corporately and at local business leel, the eece and eport controls, financial and scal laws, health idencaon, measurement, and control of regulatory and safety, enironmental, money laundering, anrisk and also ensure this principle is at the centre of our bribery, etc.
The Group recognises that its operaons management of safety and other issues.
ocal management hae the potenal to hae an impact on its employees, connuously monitors local laws and regulaons, and contractors, isitors, customers, and others in the policies are in place for the appointment of adisors to community and that failure to comply with parcular support business deelopment.
Professional adice is regulaons could result in a combinaon of fines, sought when engaging in new territories to ensure that the penales, ciil or criminal prosecuon, and suspension Group complies with local and internaonal regulaons and or debarment from Goernment contracts, as well as requirements.
The terms of reference of the Compliance reputaonal damage to the YineY brand.
Any one Commiee hae been epanded to reiew the eeceness of these could hae a material impact on the Groups of the compliance risk frameworks.
& The Group operates in a highly-regulated informaon The informaon systems are designed with consideraon technology enironment.
The data held by YineY to single points of failure and the remoal of risk through is highly condenal and needs to be totally secure, minor and major system failures.
The business maintains parcularly against a background of increasing business connuity plans that coer both geography, e. g. cyber-threat.
A failure of systems could hae an impact sites and business units, as well as the technical capability on contract deliery leading to a loss of customer of sta.
These plans coer a range of scenarios, including sasfacon.
A breach of data security could hae loss of access to informaon technology systems.
The an impact on our customers operaons and hae plans are tested at appropriate interals.
Data security a significant reputaonal impact, as well as lead to the is assured through a mul-layered approach, that possibility of eclusion from some types of Goernment proides a hardened enironment, including robust contracts, with a detrimental impact on the Groups physical security arrangements, data resilience strategies financial performance.
and the applicaon of security technologies, as well as comprehensie internal and eternal tesng of potenal ulnerabilies.
In addion, the systems are monitored and managed on a 247 basis.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 & Z W D & ome of the Groups reenue is deried from contracts The nature of many of the serices proided under such that hae a ed price.
There is a risk that the costs ed-price arrangements is oen for a dened amount required for the deliery of a contract could be of eort or resource rather than rm delierables and, as higher than those agreed in the contract as a result a result, migates the risk of costs escalang.
The Group of the performance of new or deeloped products, ensures that its ed-price bids and projects are reiewed operaonal oer-runs or eternal factors, such as for early detecon and management of issues which may inaon.
Any significant increase in costs which cannot result in cost oer-run.
be passed on to a customer may reduce the profitability of a contract or een result in a contract becoming loss-making.
The aerospace, defence and security markets are highly YineY seeks to focus on areas within these markets in compee.
The Groups financial performance may be which its deep customer understanding, domain knowledge, adersely aected should it not be able to compete in technical eperse and plaorm independence proide the markets in which it aims to operate.
a strong proposion and a significant adantage in compee bidding.
The risks associated While the core acies of the Group are confined to with haing a large geographic footprint may include: the h and the h, it connues to eplore potenal regulaon and administraon changes, changes in customer relaonships across the globe.
These new taaon policy, polical instability, ciil unrest, and relaonships are assessed for their inherent risks, using dierences in culture and terms of reference, leading our Internaonal Business Opportunity Management to a lack of common understanding with customers.
process before being formally entered into.
Any such eents could disrupt some of the Groups operaons and hae a material impact on its future financial performance.
Z The Group relies on the proper funconing of the The Group maintains a prudent leel of commied credit markets which could hae an impact on both the funding facilies: a e-year mul-currency facility aailability and associated costs of nancing.
The Group totalling 275m was proided by its relaonship banks is eposed to interest rate risk to the etent borrowings and signed in 2011.
The Group are issued at oang interest rates.
also uses ed-rate debt instruments issued to h priate placement inestors with maturity dates up to 2019.
The Group is eposed to olality in echange rates as The Group acely hedges all significant transaconal a result of the internaonal nature of its operaons.
foreign echange eposure as described in the notes This includes a translaonal impact on the key financial to the financial statements and has adopted hedge statements as a result of the Group reporng its accounng.
The Groups objece is to reduce mediumfinancial results in sterling.
The Group has limited term olality to cash ow, margins and earnings.
transacon eposure as its reenue and related The Group protects its balance sheets and reseres costs are oen borne in the same currency, principally from aderse foreign echange moements by h dollars or sterling.
Of the Groups total reenue, nancing acquisions in North America with h dollarapproimately 43% are contracted in sterling, 55% denominated borrowings, thereby parally migang the in h dollars and 2% in euros.
risk as h dollar earnings are used to serice and repay h dollar-denominated debt.
Z The funded research and deelopment work that the The Group inests in the deelopment of intellectual Group undertakes for defence and other customers property only where it beliees there is a realisc market creates intellectual property that it retains and can opportunity for the technology.
The performance use for commercial applicaons.
The uncertainty that of intellectual property realisaon programmes is eists oer new technologies and markets may result monitored to increase support for successful prospects in delays, failure to realise alue from intellectual and reduce ependiture where realisaon appears less property, or the need for a higher leel of inestment likely.
The Group uses eternal eperts and financial for the opportunity to be realised.
The addional backers as partners in a ariety of structures to improe inestment required may hae to be funded from the the performance of certain intellectual property Groups own capital resources which may hae an realisaon projects.
aderse impact on its financial performance.
The Group has the ability to acquire other businesses The risks are migated through the due diligence and and companies.
These acquisions may not perform internal approals processes.
In addion, the usual in line with epectaons, thereby haing a detrimental contractual protecons are included in purchase impact on the Groups financial performance.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
