CORPORATE 'OVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED N C R The Audit Commiee reiews, on behalf The Nominaons Commiee is now chaired The Board is ulmately responsible for the of the Board, the risk management by Mark Ellio.
The other Commiee Groups system of internal control and for process and the system of internal control members are Colin Balmer, Admiral ir reiewing its eeceness in safeguarding necessary to manage risks, and presents James Burnell-Nugent, Noreen Doyle, shareholders interests and the Companys its findings to the Board.
The internal Michael Harper, Paul Murray and eo assets.
The system is designed to manage audit funcon independently reiews the Quinn.
ir Daid ees and Daid angsta and migate, rather than eliminate, the risk risk idencaon and control processes were also members of the Commiee unl of failure to achiee business objeces, implemented by management and reports they resigned.
The Commiee ensures and can proide only reasonable and not to the Audit Commiee.
Where areas for that the composion of the Board and absolute assurance against material misimproement in the system of internal Commiees has the opmum balance statement or loss.
control are idened, the Board considers of skills, knowledge and eperience.
It the recommendaons made by the QET, the QineQ managers are responsible for considers diersity, including the skills QNA Eecue Team, the Audit Commiee the idencaon and ealuaon of mi, internaonal industry eperience and and the Compliance Commiee.
significant risks applicable to their areas gender, among many other factors, when of business, together with the design and The Audit Commiee also reiews the seeking to appoint a new Director to the operaon of suitable internal controls to assurance process, ensuring that an Board.
The Commiee meets as necessary ensure eece migaon.
These risks, appropriate mi of techniques is used to and when called by its Chair.
During the which are related to the achieement of obtain the leel of assurance required financial year ended 31 March 2012, business objeces, are assessed on a by the Board.
It presents its findings to the Commiee met and consulted connual basis and may be associated with the Board on a regular basis.
The Board informally on a number of occasions a ariety of internal and eternal eents, reiewed the eeceness of the system around Board meengs.
including control breakdowns, compeon, of internal control that was in operaon The principal focus of the Commiees disrupon, regulatory requirements and during the financial year ended 31 March acies during the financial year ended natural and other catastrophes.
The Board also rounely challenges 31 March 2012 was to reiew the size and the Audit Commiee regularly reiew management to ensure that the systems and composion of the Board and its significant risks to the business.
of internal control are constantly improing commiees, and to reiew QineQs to maintain their eeceness.
An annual process of hierarchical selfsuccession planning processes at cercaon, which proides a documented QineQ has internal control and risk Non-eecue Director leel.
and auditable trail of accountability for the management systems in place in relaon The Commiee oersaw the appointment operaon of the system of internal control, to the Companys process for financial of Michael Harper as a new Non-eecue has been established.
This self-cercaon reporng and for the preparaon of Director in Noember 2011.
An eternal process is informed by a rigorous and consolidated accounts.
In addion, QineQ search consultancy assisted in the structured self-assessment that addresses has internal procedures in place that are selecon process.
designed to comply with internaonal It proides for successie assurances best pracce in relaon to the preenon S C to be gien at increasingly higher leels of corrupon.
The ecurity Commiee is chaired by Colin of management and, nally, to the Board.
The other Commiee members are Compliance with an-bribery and The process is informed by the internal Admiral ir James Burnell-Nugent, ir Daid corrupon legislaon is further facilitated audit funcon, which also proides a degree ees unl his departure, Michael Harper, by the engagement of independent, of assurance as to the operaon and alidity Daid Mellors, Paul Murray and eo Quinn.
internaonally recognised organisaons, of the system of internal control.
The Commiee was established in June such as TRACE, which conducts an- 2009 to enable h naonals on the Board The centrally proided internal audit corrupon due diligence reiews of to consider maers of a h naonal security programme is priorised according to all third-party agents oerseas.
dimension that hae an impact on QineQs risks idened by the Company and is h business.
There was no requirement for integrated across all business and funconal the Commiee to meet during the year.
dimensions, thereby reducing issues of oerlap or gaps in coerage.
These risks are idened dynamically and the Board, the QET and the QNA Eecue Team are inoled in the process.
42 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
