During 2012, the internal audit function focused on various The company has adopted policies pursuant to the United group activities and operations, covering a variety of financial, States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, United States operational, strategic and compliance related business Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection processes.
No material weaknesses were identied as a Act of 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, the United Kingdoms Bribery result of risk management and internal controls reviews Act 2010 and Corruption Jersey Law 2006.
All the groups undertaken by internal audit during 2012.
The executive operations and sites, key employees, customers, major management continues to undertake regular reviews of suppliers, managers and other key stakeholders have been various parts of the groups operations and the contents of briefed concerning the implication of the policies and the their reports are submitted to the audit committee and board companys obligations under that legislation.
The company for comment when necessary.
In 2012, a formal internal continues to work with its external legal counsel regarding the audit plan which was approved by the audit committee, was executed across the groups operations using internal effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and any applicable regulations resources and supplemented through the engagement of which have been published.
external practitioners upon specified terms.
Control environment The audit committee assessed the effectiveness of the The group maintains a sound system of internal control which is groups internal audit function during the year, nding that imbedded at all its operations and sites, as part of the boards adequate work had been undertaken providing effective commitment to the long term success of the company and assurance around financial processes and controls in relation the protection of the value of its reputation and assets in order to the SOX work performed in the year and that the internal to safeguard the interests of its shareholders.
An effective audit function has had full access to all areas of the group and system of operational and financial controls, including the is of good standing within the organisation.
maintenance of qualitative financial records, is an important element of the groups internal control.
The system of internal The board notes that no cost effective system can preclude control provides reasonable rather than absolute assurance all errors and irregularities and therefore the groups system that the groups business objectives will be achieved within of internal controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, the risk tolerance levels dened by the board.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The audit committee reviews the internal control process, Anti-corruption and business including quarterly financial reporting, and its effectiveness integrity on an annual basis to ensure it remains robust in identifying The group prohibits bribery and corruption in all forms control weaknesses as well as to comply with SOX and throughout its business and those of its contractors and internal audit requirements.
The group is focused on suppliers.
The groups code of conduct and its general maintaining a sound system of internal control, based on the conditions of contract assist its business and employees groups policies, procedures and guidelines, in all operations.
in countering bribery, corruption and unethical behaviour.
The group considers and addresses bribery and corruption This review includes quarterly reports from the head of internal risks as part of its ongoing risk management process, which includes performing appropriate due diligence when audit in respect of findings from internal control reviews and testing, assurances obtained in relation to the certications engaging third parties, entering into partnerships and joint ventures and updating that due diligence periodically during required under SOX necessary for the companys NASDAQ the relationship.
listing and other assurances from regular management reviews as appropriate.
As in previous years, the group continued with its whistleblowing programme at all its operations and sites.
The group carried out an assessment of its internal This programme allows all staff and contractors to raise any control over consolidated financial reporting pursuant to concerns about the groups business practices condentially.
Section 404 of SOX and the United States Disclosure The programme is monitored by the audit committee and Rules and Transparency Rules.
The management of the ensures that the groups general counsels contact details company, which is responsible under SOX for establishing are widely distributed among its operations and sites, and and maintaining an adequate system of internal controls over highlighted periodically to staff and contractors, to allow any consolidated financial reporting, evaluated the effectiveness of person who has information regarding unethical practice that system using the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations within the group to contact the groups general counsel.
of the Treadway Commission COSO framework.
Based on All reports received by the general counsel are treated in that evaluation, the management of the company concludes confidence and are either investigated by the general counsel in its annual report on Form 20-F led with the SEC that the or referred to an appropriate line manager or the internal system of internal control over consolidated financial reporting audit function for investigation and resolution, depending on was effective as at 31 December 2012. the seriousness of the information received by the general counsel.
The audit committee considers the whistleblowing procedures in place to be appropriate for the group.
However, Risk management these are periodically reviewed by the audit committee from The board is responsible for determining the nature and time to time to ensure that appropriate safeguards to protect extent of the significant risks the group has to manage in whistleblowers are in place and maintained.
Over the course order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The board believes of the year, no fraudulent incidences were identied under in the maintenance of sound risk management and internal this programme.
Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 123 | Audit committee report continued Every year, the board reviews the effectiveness of the groups By its nature, the risk register is a dynamic document subject risk management and internal control systems, which cover to change.
However, it is used by management to perform all material financial, operational, compliance, reputational their duties while at the same time allowing the internal audit and sustainable development risks.
This review relies on function to review and evaluate the activities of management assessments undertaken by the audit committee and such in their efforts to control issues of risk and assess whether reviews occurred throughout the 2012 financial year.
these activities are sufficient for the mitigation and management of risk.
Risk is managed by means of the risk management triangle shown below.
The board, at the pinnacle of the triangle, has The companys management team was actively involved in all reserved for its approval the management of risk.
The board the groups operations throughout the year, including numerous considers the groups strategic plan annually and when issues visits to the groups sites and operations, attending monthly arise which may affect the strategic plan.
In addition, at its meetings with general managers and weekly meetings with quarterly meetings the board considers the companys five-year other senior members of staff, in each case to discuss critical plan, group valuation and the groups corporate models for this issues affecting the operations, all of which are undertaken to purpose.
assist in reducing the groups risk exposure.
At the audit committee meeting held in August 2012, the committee reviewed the annual risk register and the risk As part of the preparation of the companys annual report on management framework which is used by the board and Form 20-F, which is led with the SEC, the substantial risk factors management to identify key risks facing the group, and are again identied and set out, highlighting to the market those considered whether those risks are appropriately managed.
aspects which could have a material effect on the companys The risk register was presented to the audit committee by the business.
head of internal audit following its update in conjunction with senior management.
The risk register and framework use the The board identied and assessed the principal risk factors companys existing risk matrix and universal risk prioritisation and uncertainties which it considers either individually or in and rating scale, which grade and prioritise perceived and combination as having the potential to have a material adverse known risks.
The risk register assists management in identifying effect on the groups business.
The groups strategy takes into and assessing the key risks facing the business.
Features of account known risks but there may be additional risks unknown the risk register include the risk area: the actual risk: detail to the group and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, regarding responsibility: the inherent risk assessment: controls which could develop into material risks.
Full details relating to and mitigation in place: and the residual risk assessment.
The the groups industry generally can be found in the annual report inherent risk assessment features two key components, the first on Form 20-F led with the SEC, a copy of which is available being a measure of probability and the second a measure of the on the companys website www.
impact were such a risk to arise.
From their assessment the board has itemised several key risks, The audit committee acknowledges there are many risks including the Key Performance Indicators KPIs and how these are being managed.
These risks are outlined on pages 125 to inherent to a mining business that will always exist and the challenge is to manage them effectively.
Risk management triangle Board Charter Group strategy Board Five-year plan and valuation Annual report and Form 20-F Quarterly reports Risk evaluation and assessment Audit committee Annual insurance review Internal audit reports Quarterly operational board meetings Executive Monthly management meetings committee and Treasury committee meetings management Weekly executive committee meetings Environmental, health and safety committee meetings Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 124 |
