FINANCIAL REVIEW 58 PRINCIPAL RISKS Principal risks Reed Elsevier has established risk management practices that performance.
Our risk management and internal control are embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on processes are described in the Structure and Corporate theframework in internal control issued by the Committee of Governance section.
A description of the business and a Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
discussion of factors affecting performance is set out in the The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier, which have been ChiefExecutive Ofcers report and Business Review.
Financial considered by the Audit Committees and Boards, are described risks are discussed in the Chief Financial Ofcers report and in below.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect our note 18 to the combined financial statements.
Our approach to businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the risks described managing environmental and other non financial risks is set out in below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not the Business Review and the separate Corporate Responsibility materialise and or adversely affect our business or financial Report.
Important specic risks identied include: EXTERNAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Economy and Demand for our products and services may be impacted Our businesses are focused on professional markets market by factors such as the economic environment in the US, which have generally been more resilient in periods of conditions Europe and other major economies, and economic downturn.
We deliver information solutions, government funding.
many on a subscription basis, which are important to our customers effectiveness and efficiency.
We have extended our position in high growth markets through organic new launches supported by selective small acquisitions.
We are disposing of businesses that no longer t our strategy at an accelerated pace.
Intellectual Our products and services are largely comprised of We actively engage in developing and promoting the property rights intellectual property content delivered through a variety legal protection of intellectual property rights.
We rely on trademark, copyright, patent and businesses, subscription contracts with customers other intellectual property laws to establish and protect contain provisions as to the use of proprietary content.
our proprietary rights in these products and services.
We are also vigilant as to the use of our content and, There is a risk that our proprietary rights could be asappropriate, take legal action to challenge illegal challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented which distribution sources.
may impact demand for and pricing of our products and services.
Data resources A number of our businesses rely extensively upon We seek as far as possible to have proprietary content.
content and data from external sources.
Data is Where content is supplied to us by third parties, we seek obtained from public records, governmental to have contracts which provide mutual commercial authorities, customers and other information benefit.
We also maintain an active dialogue with companies, including competitors.
The disruption or regulatory authorities on privacy and other data related loss of data sources, because of changes in the law or issues, and promote, with others, the responsible use because data suppliers decide not to supply them, could of data.
adversely affect our products and services if we were unable to arrange for substitute sources in a timely manner or at all.
Paid Our scientific, technical and medical STM primary We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STM subscriptions publications, like those of most of our competitors, are community to better understand their needs and published on a paid subscription basis.
There is debate deliver value to them.
Weare open to serving the in the government, academic and library communities, STMcommunity under any payment model that can which are the principal customers for our STM sustainably provide researchers with the critical publications, regarding whether such publications information tools that they need.
We focus on the should be funded instead through fees charged to integrity and quality of research through the editorial authors and from governmental and other subsidies and peer review process: we invest in efficient editorial ormade freely available after a period following and distribution platforms and in innovation in publication.
If these methods of STM publishing are platforms and tools to make content and data more widely adopted or mandated, it could adversely affect accessible and actionable: and we ensure vigilance our revenue from paid subscription publications.
onplagiarism and the long term preservation of research findings.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 59 STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Customer Reed Elseviers businesses are dependent on the We are focused on the needs and economics of our acceptance of continued acceptance by our customers of our products customers and seek to provide content and innovative products and services and the value placed on them.
Failure to solutions that help them achieve better outcomes and meet evolving customer needs could impact demand enhance productivity.
for our products and consequently adversely affect our revenue.
Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets.
To remain competitive we continuously invest significant These markets continue to change in response to resources in our products and services, and the technological innovations, changing legislation, infrastructure to support them.
We gain insights into our regulatory changes, the entrance of new competitors markets, evolving customers needs and opportunities, and other factors.
Failure to anticipate market trends the potential application of new technologies and could impact the competitiveness of our products business models, and the actions of competitors, andservices and consequently adversely affect andthese insights inform our market strategies our revenue.
Acquisitions From time to time we acquire businesses to strengthen Our acquisitions are made within the framework our portfolio.
If we are unable to generate the ofouroverall strategy, which emphasises organic anticipated benets such as revenue growth, synergies development.
We have a well formulated process for and or cost savings associated with these acquisitions reviewing and executing acquisitions and for managing this could adversely affect return on invested capital the post acquisition integration.
This process is and financial condition.
underpinned with clear strategic, financial and ethicalacquisition criteria.
We closely monitor the performance of acquisitions.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Technology Our businesses are dependent on electronic platforms We have established procedures for the protection of failure and networks, primarily the internet, for delivery of our technology assets.
These include the development products and services.
They could be adversely affected of business continuity plans, including IT disaster if our electronic delivery platforms and networks recovery plans and back-up delivery systems, to experience a significant failure, interruption, or reduce business disruption in the event of a major security breach.
Data security Our businesses maintain databases and information We have established data privacy and security online, including personal information.
We test and re-evaluate our procedures ourdata security or failure to comply with applicable and controls with the aim of ensuring that personal legislation or regulatory or contractual requirements data is protected and that we comply with relevant could damage our reputation and expose us to risk legislation, regulatory and contractual requirements.
ofloss or litigation and increased regulation.
Supply chain Our organisational and operational structures have We select our vendors with care and establish dependencies increased dependency on outsourced and offshored contractual service levels that we closely monitor, functions.
Poor performance or failure of third parties including through key performance indicators and to whom we have outsourced activities could adversely targeted supplier audits.
We have developed business affect our business performance, reputation and continuity plans to reduce disruption in the event of a financial condition.
Talent The implementation and execution of our strategies and We have well established management development business plans depend on our ability to recruit, motivate and talent review programmes.
We monitor capability and retain high quality people.
We compete globally and needs and remuneration schemes are tailored to attract across business sectors for talented management and and motivate the best talent available at an appropriate skilled individuals, particularly those with technology level of cost.
We actively seek feedback from employees, and data analytics capabilities.
Inability to recruit, which feeds into plans to enhance employee engagement motivate or retain such people could adversely affect and motivation.
FINANCIAL REVIEW 60 PRINCIPAL RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the We have professional management of our pension world.
Historically, the largest schemes have been of schemes and we focus on maintaining appropriate asset the dened benefit type in the UK, the US and the allocation and plan designs.
We review our funding Netherlands.
The assets and obligations associated requirements on a regular basis with the assistance with those dened benefit pension schemes are ondependent actuaries and ensure that the funding particularly sensitive to changes in the market values plans are sufficient to meet future liabilities.
ofassets and the market related assumptions used to value scheme liabilities.
Adverse changes to inter alia asset values, discount rates or ination could increase future pension costs and funding requirements.
Tax Our businesses operate globally and our earnings are We have clear and consistent tax policies and tax subject to taxation in many differing jurisdictions and at matters are dealt with by a professional tax function, differing rates.
We seek to organise our affairs in a tax supported by external tax advisors.
We maintain an efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions open dialogue with the relevant tax authorities and are inwhich we operate.
However, tax laws that apply to vigilant in ensuring that we comply with tax legislation.
ReedElsevier businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities or interpreted differently which could adversely affect our reported results.
Treasury The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements Reed Elseviers approach to funding and management areexpressed in pounds sterling and are subject to of interest rate and foreign currency exposures is movements in exchange rates on the translation of the described on pages 56 and 57.
The approach to the financial information of businesses whose operational management of financial risks is described in note currencies are other than sterling.
The US is our most 18 tothe combined financial statements.
important market and, accordingly, significant uctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could signicantly affect our reported results.
Macro economic, political and market conditions may also adversely affect the availability of short and long term funding, volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and ination.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Ethics As a world leading provider of professional information The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct solutions to the scientific, technical & medical, risk is provided to every employee and is supported by solutions & business information, legal, and exhibitions training.
It encompasses such topics as fair competition, markets we are expected to adhere to high standards of anti-bribery and human rights and encourages open independence and ethical conduct.
Abreach of and principled behaviour.
We also have well established generally accepted ethical business standards could processes for reporting and investigating unethical adversely affect our business performance, reputation conduct.
Our major suppliers are required to adopt and financial condition.
Environmental Reed Elsevier and its businesses have an impact on We are committed to reducing these environmental theenvironment, principally through the use of energy impacts by limiting resource use and by efficiently and water, waste generation and, in our supply chain, employing sustainable materials and technologies.
through our paper use and print and production Werequire our major suppliers and contractors to technologies.
Failure to manage our environmental meetthe same objectives.
We seek to ensure that impact could adversely affect our reputation.
ReedElseviers businesses are compliant with all relevant environmental regulation.
