Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties are considered by management to be as shown below: Area of risk Description Revenue growth is unpredictable and orders from Current trading levels and order book customers generally involve short lead-times with the outstanding order book at any time being around one months worth of revenue value.
Change since 2011 The development of new products and processes involves Research and development risk, such as development timescales, meeting the required technical specification and the impact of alternative technology developments.
Change since 2011 k Customer deliveries may be threatened by a failure in the Supply chain management supply chain.
AWAITING NEW TEXT FOR THIS PAGE Change since 2011 h The expansion of the Groups business into the Regulatory legislation for healthcare healthcaremarkets involves a significantly increased products requirement to obtain regulatory approval prior to the sale ofthese products.
Investment returns and actuarial valuations of the defined Dened benefit pension schemes benefit pension scheme liabilities are subject to economic Change since 2011 k and social factors which are outside of the control of the Group.
Fluctuating foreign exchange rates may affect the results Treasury ofthe Group.
Change since 2011 x 36 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Potential impact Mitigation Global market conditions continue to highlight risks to The Group has sought to expand and diversify its product growth and demand, especially in the Far East, with a range in order to maintain a world-leading position in its forecast economic slowdown in China, where high growth sales of metrology products and to lessen the risks to over the past three years has helped to sustain the global revenue growth by applying our measurement expertise economic recovery and in the Eurozone where governments intothe growing healthcare business sector.
The Group are targeting substantial cuts in public expenditure budgets.
hasmade a small number of acquisitions to expand the product range with complementary technologies into Against this background, revenue growth for the Group for newmarket areas.
the year was encouraging at 15%, but future growth is difficult to predict, especially with such a short-term order The Group pays close attention to the management of book.
This limited forward order visibility leaves the annual production and inventory levels, to ensure the timely supply revenue forecasts uncertain.
of product to customers, whilst keeping inventory levels at an acceptable level.
The Board monitors costs closely and approves all labour additions.
Being at the leading edge of new technology in metrology R&D risks are minimised by operating strictly managed and healthcare, there are uncertainties whether new research and development programmes with regular developments will provide an economic return.
reviews against milestones achieved and against forecast business plans.
Research and development also involves beta testing at customers to ensure that new products will meet the needs of the market.
When necessary, projects may be cancelled.
Development of alternative technologies, whether in the Group or externally, is monitored closely.
Expenditure is only capitalised once the commercial and technical feasibility of a product is proven.
Inability to meet customer deliveries could result in loss of Production facilities are maintained with fire and flood revenue and profit.
riskinmind and production lines are replicated at different locations where practical.
Regular vendor reviews are performed for critical part suppliers and stock policies are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Regulatory approval can be very expensive and timeSpecialist legal and regulatory staff have been recruited consuming.
This area is also very complex and there is a tosupport the healthcare business.
Along with external risk that the correct approvals are not obtained.
advisers, all regulatory legislation is considered and approvals obtained as necessary.
Volatility in investment returns and actuarial assumptions The investment strategy is managed by the pension scheme can significantly affect the defined benefit pension fund trustees who operate in line with a statement of investment deficit, impacting on future funding requirements.
principles which is agreed by the Company.
Recovery plans are in place for the defined benefit pension schemes which will be reviewed following the tri-annual actuarial valuations.
With over 94% of revenue generated outside of the UK, The Group enters into forward contracts to hedge significant there is an exposure to major currency fluctuations, mainly proportions of forecast US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen in respect of the US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen.
The Group also uses currency contracts to hedge Suchfluctuations could adversely impact both the Groups the foreign currency denominated assets held in the income statement and balance sheet.
