Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Report of the Board 47 important factors relevant to an assessment of the boards Board committees effectiveness.
The review also covered: board support and time In order to operate effectively and to give the appropriate level of management, strategic and operational risk oversight, succession attention to the range of matters required to be addressed by the planning and priorities for change.
The anonymity of all board, tasks have been delegated to committees.
The terms of respondents was ensured in order to promote an open and frank reference for the main committees are available from the exchange of views.
com or from the company secretary.
A summary of the main committees The board considered the output from the review at a meeting membership and activities is shown at the head of each earlier this year and a number of enhancements to the committee report on pages 50, 54 and 60. effectiveness of board processes, information and engagement with the talent pool in the business were proposed for Agendas, papers and minutes of committee meetings are implementation during the year.
The findings overall indicated that generally provided to all board members.
Chairmen of committees the board and individual director performance were effective.
update the board following each committee meeting.
6 nominations committee is chaired by John McAdam who, while The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own not an independent director, as the Company Chairman, performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
isconsidered by the board to be the appropriate person to chair the boards nominations committee.
Independence of non-executive directors In addition to the principal board committees audit, remuneration The continuing independence of non-executive directors is critical and nominations the board operates a number of ad hoc to their on-going effectiveness over challenging executive committees.
The main ad hoc committee is the finance committee management.
The board recognises that the Code requires that which comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief at least half the membership of the board, excluding the Chairman, Financial officer and non-executive directors with relevant financial should comprise of independent non-executive directors.
This committee reviews matters concerning Company The independence of directors is reviewed as part of the individual nancing and group treasury policy and makes recommendations director performance evaluation process.
The performance to the board on nancing matters.
evaluation process provides assurance that all non-executive members of the board retain the independence of judgement Conflicts of interest procedure which underpins the culture of constructive challenge in the The directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation where they boardroom.
The non-executive directors bring their wide have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or experience to the boardroom for the benefit of the execution of possibly might conict with the interests of the Company.
The business strategy and as a group and individually constructively board is permitted under powers from shareholders contained in challenge the executive team both at board and committee the articles of association to authorise actual or potential conicts meetings as well as during the many exchanges which occur of interest.
The Company has a procedure in place to deal with the situation The Chairman, John McAdam, is not classied as independent where a director has a conict of interest and as part of the because he participates in a long-term incentive plan approved by process the board considers each potential conict situation on its shareholders at the time of his appointment.
The board maintains a register of authorisations All other non-executive directors have been determined by the granted and the scope of any approvals given.
These potential board to be independent, having retained their independence of conicts are not material either to the Company or, the directors character and judgement.
In making this determination the board believe, to the other companies that are the subject of the potential has taken into account indicators of potential non-independence conict.
The register of authorised conicts is reviewed by the as set out in the Code.
No director took part in the boards board periodically.
All of the approvals given have been situational consideration of their own independence.
and no circumstances of transactional conicts have occurred.
The board considers that an individuals independence cannot be The process for authorising potential conicts and authorisations determined arbitrarily on the basis of a particular period of service.
given under the process is reviewed on behalf of the board by the In the case of Peter Long, who has served as a director for ten nominations committee on an annual basis.
years five years with the current executive management the board benets from his considerable experience and knowledge Board and director performance evaluation resulting from the length of his service as well as from his wider The board performance evaluation involved an external business experience.
independent facilitator, Lintstock, engaging with the Chairman and company secretary to set the context for the evaluation.
Lintstock Risk management and internal control is a specialist corporate governance consultancy and has no An intrinsic part of the governance process is the identication, commercial dealings with the group, other than over the provision management and control of risk.
Information on the risk of corporate governance services to the board.
management and control framework is provided in the Risks & Respondents completed online questionnaires covering Uncertainties section on pages 27 to 30 and in the Governance specically the balance of skills, experience, independence and Report by the audit committee on pages 50 to 53. knowledge of the Company on the board, its diversity, including gender, how the board works together as a unit, all of which are
