28 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties Risks and Uncertainties Strategic Thrusts Risk Description What we are doing to manage and or reduce the risk Achieve service level targets Global KPIs are dened for state of service.
Delivering reviewed monthly at local, divisional and group level and Outstanding incorporated into employee reward schemes Customer Service Achieve or exceed customer satisfaction Customer account management processes have been rolled out following successful trials in the UK pest control business.
Customer Voice Counts net promoter score surveys are regularly undertaken across the group, included in group KPI reporting Strategic Thrusts Risk Description What we are doing to manage and or reduce the risk Ensure sufficient and capable resource A detailed project management process, PFI Lite, is used to 2.
Developing the is in place across the group to drive the drive all significant projects.
The Company executive board Capability of our operational excellence agenda including prioritises the projects to ensure sufficient resources, financial Organisation and implementation of new information and manpower including IT, are available to deliver the People systems and technologies projects to the agreed budget Roll out a sustainable pipeline of new A group marketing & innovation function was established in innovation across the business 2012, focusing on innovation for the hygiene and pest control categories, leveraging the groups global scale and ensuring effective development and deployment Development of a professional sales A global sales leadership team GSLT has been established capability across the business to drive improved sales capability, training and selling tools as well as to support activity at divisional country level Strategic Thrusts Risk Description What we are doing to manage and or reduce the risk City Link turnaround is not delivered significant improvements to the operating model have been 3.
Delivering implemented during 2012 and most KPIs showed improved Operational performance.
Losses were reduced by 5m in the year, of Excellence in all which 4m was achieved in Q4 our Processes and Recruit to Reward project fails to deliver HR processes have been globally dened and are being Functions step-change in HR capability and implemented on a rolling basis, starting with pilots in the UK, operations Spain, Australia, South Africa and North America.
Progress is monitored regularly by the Company executive board Poor implementation of new accounting The business continues to rationalise its accounting systems, systems and processes Record to with Malaysia and Portugal two of several upgrades planned Report project results in loss of finance in 2013.
Project management disciplines noted above are transaction reporting capability fully employed globally and locally to ensure that cut-over does not disrupt the operation of the business Effective integration of acquisitions A detailed implementation checklist is in place for deployment on completion of an acquisition.
Implementation is regularly monitored by senior management, and internal audit reviews the internal controls of all acquired businesses within 12 months of completion Poor service scheduling and productivity Route optimisation techniques have been applied to categories where efficient multiple service calls are a critical part of the business model parcels, pest control, workwear and hygiene Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties 29 Strategic Thrusts Risk Description What we are doing to manage and or reduce the risk Identify and execute cost saving Cost savings programmes are in place across all divisions 4.
Operating at opportunities and are monitored monthly.
Cost savings of 59m were Lowest Possible Cost delivered in 2012 consistent with our Poor supply chain management An SKU rationalisation project has largely been completed service objectives including procurement in Textiles & Hygiene as a pre-cursor to centralising and delivering warehousing and distribution across Europe, which will Maximum Cash be implemented in the first half of 2013 Achieve operating cash ow targets Cash conversion targets and days outstanding debtors targets are set for all divisions and countries and are monitored monthly Deteriorating ability to collect debts Aged debtors KPIs are monitored monthly.
The due to weak economies impacting our creditworthiness of new customers and material existing customers, especially governments customers is regularly reviewed.
Credit limits are applied based on an assessment of risk Financial market risks - foreign exchange Detailed policies are in place that require group treasury risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, to approve, oversee and monitor all financial market risks counterparty risk and settlement risk Volatility in pension scheme funding Pension provision is via dened contribution schemes for all obligations adversely impacts group current employees.
The Companys dened benefit scheme profitability or cash ow is funded in a way that reduces its exposure to interest rate and ination risk Strategic Thrusts Risk Description What we are doing to manage and or reduce the risk Win profitable new customers Initiatives to win new customers such as tele-appointing, bids 5.
Delivering and tenders and online tools as well as the development of Profitable Growth cost-to-serve models to enable more competitive pricing of through Organic and the service offering continue to be rolled out, coordinated by Acquisitive Actions the GSLT see above Up-sell to existing customers A common sales process, supported by CRM technology, is being developed to share customer information and identify cross-selling opportunities.
Sales training and improved incentive schemes are being rolled out to generate more business with existing customers Retain profitable business when Initiatives in place to improve the monitoring of customer renewing existing customer contracts satisfaction and develop customer retention plans include benchmarking, market research, a cost to serve model, and senior management involvement in re-tendering and contract renewal Generate profitable growth through A number of significant acquisitions have been completed strategically relevant acquisition joint during 2012.
A pipeline of potential acquisitions is regularly venture reviewed by group management.
The group has funding capacity for the anticipated level of bolt-on acquisitions 30 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties Risk Description What we are doing to manage and or reduce the risk Assurance Risks Fraud, financial crime or material There is a strong focus on regular financial controls testing, accounting misstatement including independent testing against a set of minimum control standards by the external auditors.
Speak-up is available for condential whistleblowing Health, Safety or Environmental breach The group SHE board is responsible for setting SHE resulting in loss of life, litigation, financial policies, processes and systems and monitoring and penalties or reputational damage reviewing their effectiveness.
External certication and review ensure that SHE standards are maintained at an adequate level.
SHE metrics are reviewed monthly by the company executive board Non-compliance with local tax The group tax director monitors all local tax issues above a legislation reporting requirement leading threshold, and approves and monitors tax contingencies to material unprovided tax charge Breach of laws or regulations including Group policies are in place on competition law.
Compulsory competition and anti-trust laws and e-training is required for all managers on competition law and regulations anti-corruption laws.
The group legal director is informed of all potential law breaches which may give rise to litigation Loss of operational capability due to The business continuity policy has been revised and is being major incident, e. g. re, ood, terrorism, implemented across all business units.
The implementation war, political or civil unrest, kidnap, etc.
will be tested in 2013 Failure to act responsibly and ethically The Code of Conduct that was rolled out in 2010 will be towards colleagues, customers or refreshed in 2013.
Code of Conduct training is taken by all business partners i. e. failure to comply new starters.
An e-learning programme has been developed with the Code of Conduct and will be rolled out to all senior managers through 2013.
Speak-up hotline monitored by group internal audit
