Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties 27 Risks and Uncertainties promulgating the Code of Conduct which defines how Risk management approach employees, and others who act on behalf of the Company, The identication and management of risk is fully integrated must behave when dealing with colleagues, suppliers, into the groups strategy development and into the day-to-day customers and other stakeholders.
This includes approval of operational execution of the strategy by the divisions.
Ensuring policies, procedures and processes that underpin the Code that risks are identied and managed effectively is a part of of Conduct and are designed to ensure that the group meets every managers and supervisors job through leadership of the its legal and regulatory obligations teams for which they are responsible.
The board has overall responsibility for the groups risk Assurance and re-assurance management approach, which includes: The group risk committee, chaired by the Chief Financial reviewing and approving the groups overall strategy, officer, has oversight of the groups risk and control framework, including dening the groups overall risk appetite.
This reviews the risks that the group faces and the effectiveness of implicitly involves identifying the risks that may prevent the internal controls.
It comprises representatives from finance, IT, group from achieving its objectives and ensuring that these HR and the company secretary.
risks are mitigated or managed to an acceptable level Specic programmes are used to support implementation of regular reviews of business progress.
This includes updates the Code of Conduct and underlying policies, national laws on the risks that the business is facing, and challenging and regulations.
In some cases dedicated specialists ensure management to obtain assurance that these risks are being that standards are set and complied with, for example in health effectively managed and safety, IT security, pensions and tax.
More broadly, computer-based training is used to ensure that expected review of managements approach to identifying and standards of behaviour are widely disseminated and adopted managing risk including approval of the group risk register across the group, for example to ensure compliance with evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls, including competition law and anti-corruption anti-bribery legislation.
financial, operational and compliance controls Independent re-assurance of the effectiveness of risk evaluation of the effectiveness of internal and external audit management and internal controls across the group is provided delegation of authority to the Chief Executive and Chief to the chief executive and the board by group internal audit.
Financial officer to make commitments on behalf of the Company Principal risks Some of the above responsibilities are delegated to the Audit The groups overall risk management approach, described Committee, the full remit of which is described on pages 50 to 53. above, is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance at all levels of the group that risks are properly The Chief Executive and his leadership team are responsible identied and are being effectively managed.
This includes for day-to-day identication and management of risk, which the provision of appropriate mechanisms to ensure that issues includes: and concerns relating to risk can be escalated up through the setting targets and objectives for their respective teams and organisation, condentially if necessary.
divisions in line with the agreed group strategic direction The principal risks most relevant to the group have been monitoring of business performance through monthly and mapped against the groups five strategic thrusts and are quarterly meetings with divisional and functional leadership described in the table on pages 28 to 30, together with which include reviews of financial performance, non-financial mitigating actions.
Assurance Risks, which relate to activities metrics, latest financial forecasts and progress in delivering that the group must undertake in order to meet legal, scal and the projects to drive operational excellence and capability governance obligations, are also shown.
Risks and mitigating improvement activities are regularly reviewed by the board and the company compilation and regular review of the group risk register executive board, but it should be noted that remedial actions which defines the key risks that the Company faces in taken may not be sufficient on their own to fully mitigate the delivery of its strategy and ensures that the options to risks, should they materialise.
manage or mitigate the risks as appropriate ensuring that the business maintains sound systems of Financial risks internal control, and that appropriate assurance mechanisms Full details of the Companys financial risks can be found are in place to confirm that these internal controls are in Note 24 on pages 109 to 110. working effectively.
This includes controls relating to the preparation of financial statements, operational controls Other risks and controls to ensure that the business meets its legal The group is exposed to other risks and uncertainties related and regulatory obligations, e. g. in health and safety, tax to environmental, political, social, economic and employment and employment factors in the territories in which we operate.
Additional risks delegating authorities to ensure that decisions are always and uncertainties not presently known to management or made at the appropriate level in the organisation taking into deemed to be of lower materiality may, if they materialise, have account the level of risk involved financial and non-financial an adverse impact on the groups revenue, profitability, cash ow and or net assets.
