40 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report key risks enterprise risk management Rexam risk management process The enterprise risk management function seeks to improve further Effective management of risk is essential to the integration and efficiency of our risk management framework and, in doing so, to address the increasing requirements from the achievement of our business objectives external and internal stakeholders.
It draws together our risk based responsibilities and enhances the good risk management process and to the protection of our people, assets and practices already in place across the Group.
This section describes our well established risk management process, including the enhancements made during 2012, and Identifying, assessing and managing risks outlines the main factors that may affect the implementation and execution of our strategy.
isintegral to the way we run our business.
Rexam objectives Itis part of our focus on operational The purpose of the Rexam risk management process known internally as the ARC process is to fully support achievement of excellence and best performance which are Rexams overall objective to deliver shareholder value.
Although risk can never be eliminated, the process aims to identify and set key priorities for the Group.
The various risks appropriate mitigation responses for the key risks faced by Rexam.
attached to our activities are consistently The approach is based around the ISO 31000 risk management standard and on both the bottom up and top down assessments of assessed, recorded and reported in a strategic, financial and operational risks.
visible, structured and continuous manner risk identification The first stage of our risk management process is to identify the toensure necessary controls and mitigating risksfaced by Rexam.
It starts with a bottom up process with each business unit and function undertaking a biannual process of risk actions are in place.
Risk workshop sessions, current risk registers, intelligence on risks identified by other companies and a risk categorisation check list are used to structure and support the process.
The drivers and consequences of identified risks are also recorded which aids analysis and also the creation of appropriate mitigation plans by considering the factors causing risks to occur.
The enterprise risk management function leads and supports the Rexam risk management process process but is also there to challenge the findings.
Executive directors and other senior management are closely involved at critical stages in the process to review, challenge and debate the Rexam objectives risks identified from a top down perspective.
The resultant output isa list of risks faced by Rexam for each business unit and function the risk register.
risk identification risk assessment risk mitigation risk reporting risk monitoring development 41 risk assessment The next stage involves the assessment of each identified risk on the register in terms of its likelihood of occurring, and the impact Rexam risk management tool heat map matrix on Rexam if the risk does occur.
Performing an assessment of impact likelihood and impact at both a gross and net level before and of risk after the effect of mitigation enables us to identify the key material risks for each business and function and consider the effect of Major current mitigations on managing the risk.
To aid assessment we use specific tools, such as the heat map matrix and radar, to illustrate the impact and likelihood of different risks, and to show Significant their trend over time.
Images of these tools are shown for illustrativepurposes.
Moderate The heat map matrix tool is set up along best practice lines into a 5 by 5 impact and likelihood matrix.
The risk assessment process groups risks into four areas of very high, high, medium and low and the matrix uses a colour coding to illustrate this at both a gross Minor and net assessment level.
The matrix also considers risks with non financial impact, such as reputational and health and safety, to avoid solely focusing on the financial impact of risks and provide Insignificant abalanced view.
risk mitigation response Rare Unlikely Moderate Likely Almost certain Once risks have been assessed an appropriate mitigation response likelihood of risk occurring is determined for each risk identified.
The mitigation response will depend upon the impact and likelihood assessment and, for Very high High Medium Low example, may consist of a control action or insurance.
The risk mitigation response reduces either the likelihood of the risk occurring or the impact on Rexam if the risk does occur or both.
Through the course of this years process further work has been done on developing relevant risk mitigation plans.
risk reporting When we have assessed the risks and the responses have been determined, each business unit and function provides a risk report to the enterprise risk management function.
A review meeting is held with each business unit and function to provide senior Rexam risk management tool radar management with a further opportunity to provide challenge.
Risk 1 Thevarious reports are then considered together and a Group level risk register is produced showing the key risks to the Group and key Risk 10 Risk 2 mitigation responses.
Ownership of each key Group risk is allocated to a member of the executive leadership team.
Risk 9 Risk 3 Risk 8 Risk 4 Risk 7 Risk 5 Risk 6 Year 1 Year 0 financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 42 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report key risks risk monitoring summary of key Group risks The Group level risk register is monitored by the board through amonthly report which updates on the trend of the key risks and mitigations.
The executive leadership team, the audit and risk The tables on the following pages provide a summary of the key committee and the board all review the output from the risk risks for the Group as a whole.
The challenge remains the same in management process on a periodic basis.
The audit and risk terms of identifying the most relevant risks, assessing their impact committee also reviews the overall risk management process itself.
and importance and developing appropriate methods to eliminate The main mitigation activities for key identified risks are used as an or mitigate them.
input to determine coverage under the annual internal audit plan.
The tables provide brief descriptions of the key types of risk to development which the Group is exposed and identifies, in each case, their We are looking continually to improve our risk management potential impact on the Group and the principal processes in place process and during 2012 the following were put in place: to manage and mitigate the risk.
Each risk is specifically owned by a member of the executive leadership team.
The tables do not risk mitigation evaluation tool provide an exhaustive analysis of all risks affecting the Group.
Not The process was further enhanced with the implementation of a all of the factors listed are within the control of the Group and other new tool which requires risk owners to allocate a traffic light status factors besides those listed may affect the performance of its against each mitigation.
This tool categorises mitigations between businesses.
Some risks may be unknown at present and other risks, those which are in place and effective, those under development currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material in and those which may not currently be functioning as intended.
Categorising in this way helps to identify and follow up on outstanding actions.
Further information on the process by which risk is managed and reported is covered in the risk management and internal control risk management software system section in the corporate governance report, page 71.
A new risk management software system was developed together with an external provider through 2012 and will go live in early 2013.
The new system will be used as a platform and database for the risk management process.
The benefits this will provide include improved reporting, easier analysis of risk information across Rexam to support best practice sharing, easier identification of key risk themes to input to the internal audit plan and improve analysis of risk interconnectivity.
fire safety and property protection programme and investment The Rexam Fire Safety and Property Protection FSPP programme was capital investment in physical fire protection systems in 2012 which was developed to shift the focus of fire protection improvement from an the first year of our four year strategic FSPP investment plan.
In selecting insurance industry mandate to an internal engineering process that the sites for the initial investment a number of factors were considered focuses first on benefiting Rexam.
The FSPP programme involves an including financial business impact, interdependency of supply, and audit approach which incorporates an even split of human element and market share in a specific region.
The FSPP capital investment plan physical risk improvement focus.
This allows the final FSPP audit score focuses on enhancing existing physical protection in line with the NFPA to be a combination of both prevention and control mechanisms.
human element part of the FSPP audit uses Rexam and industry best What does FSPP mean for Rexam in the short and long term?
FSPP practices as the baseline.
On the physical side, the National Fire allows Rexam to invest immediately in ensuring our assets, business, Protection Association NFPA standards were chosen as the global and people are adequately protected from a catastrophic loss while standard.
Information obtained as part of the process can also be strengthening a system that will also continue to ensure the best aspects presented to the property insurance industry, as a secondary benefit of of risk reduction are engineered into future projects.
FSPP, to help Rexam achieve better insurance rates.
There was 3m of 43 risk description key mitigation Economic downturn The risk of economic downturn in Rexams In line with the strategic priority of best performance, key markets and its impact upon demand Rexam closely manages capital investment and for consumer packaging.
This risk has isfocused on maximising utilisation of its assets.
Furthermore we use scenario planning within our budgeting andplanning processes to identify mitigation actions which would be implemented should this riskincrease further.
Aluminium and other Aluminium is our most significant raw material In beverage cans, almost all of our aluminium ingot inputcostincreases cost.
We also purchase resin for our needs are on a pass through basis or hedged.
In the Healthcare business and steel for our Americas businesses, we charge the majority of our European beverage can operation.
High customers on a pass through basis while in Europe 78% volatility in input prices may have a material of our supply costs are on this basis.
To mitigate the risk impact on our results.
One consequence of a on the remaining aluminium London Metal Exchange substantial rise could be a change in demand LME exposure, we hedge the aluminium cost and for our products as customers adjust their associated currency requirements.
The pass through and packaging mix and the materials they use.
hedge risk management applies to LME but not to the conversion to can sheet, which is covered by long term supply contracts.
Aluminium premium cost has been an increased area of risk through 2012.
About 44% of this cost is on a pass through basis and in response to the risk, we have hedged a proportion of our remaining exposure.
We purchase aluminium and steel from a small number of regional and global suppliers with whom we have long term relationships and contracts.
In Healthcare 76% of the resin costs are on a pass through basis which includes resin escalator fide-escalator provisions that allow change in our selling price as resin prices change.
We also hedge some of our resin exposure.
euro crisis committee In response to the instabilities in the eurozone, and the risk of break up of the Euro single currency, Rexam created a euro crisis committee with members from Group treasury, Group enterprise risk management and relevant business units.
The committee met regularly through 2012 to identify key exposures, discuss and monitor developments and develop appropriate mitigation actions.
Key actions include limiting cash held in countries at risk, confirming that Rexam IT systems can cope with a return to multiple currencies, enhanced monitoring of European bank counterparty exposures and a review of commercial contracts.
Read more on financial risk management on page 129. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 44 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report key risks risk description key mitigation National political and The risk of political or economic instability Emerging market risks are assessed in detail economic stability within a region that Rexam operates in and bymanagement when considering investment its impact on performance.
The Group opportunities and setting financial policies and operates in countries and regions with procedures.
These risksare then regularly reviewed diverse economic and political conditions aspart of the ongoing management of our business.
Our expansion in Wealso take external advice on specific matters and emerging markets means that this is a uselocal external advisors.
We will continue to carry riskarea to which we will continue to outreviews of key risk areas both internally and with beexposed.
Competitive The risk of adverse commercial impact on A large proportion of our main customers have traded environment trends Rexam from customer and competitor activities.
During this time a strong This risk can be driven by dependency on key interdependency and a sense of partnership has been built customers, competitor activity, price pressure up and we have added production capacity to strengthen orcontract negotiations.
those ties and our capabilities.
These relationships and investments increase the likelihood of retaining customers.
We continue to focus on providing competitive performance as well as value adding service and innovation which are key parts of our strategic focus of strengthening our customer relationships.
Changes in packaging The risk of changing legislation impacting Rexam continually monitors changes or proposed legislation and regulatory the markets in which Rexam operates.
changes in laws or regulations that may adversely affect environment Packaging will continue to be a focus for our business if implemented arbitrarily.
This is done government legislators working within the through established and effective membership of sustainability agenda.
Changes in relevant trade associations, by direct collaboration with packaging legislation and regulation governmental and non governmental organisations and affecting producer responsibility for through our own efforts which include our legislative risk recycling, recycled content, carbon monitoring tool.
This ensures the best possible chance of footprint and landfill taxation represent shaping a constructive outcome which is not detrimental an increasing trend risk.
to Rexam or its stakeholders.
anti fraud and bribery workshop During 2012 Rexam ran an anti fraud and bribery workshop with the key people from each of the sectors and facilitated by an external expert.
The purpose of the workshop was to further highlight the risks associated with this area, benchmark controls that Rexam has in place against external best practice and determine any additional measures that should be put in place.
Our policies, the code of compliance and tone from the top were all deemed to be appropriate and a programme of further communication around this important topic was agreed for implementation in 2013.
45 risk description key mitigation Counterparty failure Risk of counterparty failure including, A range of financial counterparties are used and we forexample, bank, insurer, customer or have strict limits on our exposure to each of them.
supplier resulting in financial exposure for Theselimits are determined by a range of qualitative Rexam.
The current more challenging macro andquantitative measures that are embedded into our economic environment means that this treasury system such that any breaches are automatically remains a keyrisk.
The limits are automatically updated by factors such as credit rating change and also reviewed regularly for any qualitative changes.
The risk of insurer failure is monitored by our insurance broker and reported regularly.
Customer credit limits are imposed and their credit risk, as well as suppliers, is reviewed and monitored.
In addition, we have implemented procedures across the business to manage working capital tightly.
Changes in consumer The risk of changing consumer trends resulting We continue to monitor market and consumer trends as tastes, nutritional in a shift in demand away from products for well as political developments through our own and preferences, health which Rexam manufactures packaging.
external business intelligence services and through our related concerns and Drivers of this risk can include lifestyle and involvement in national and international packaging and environment related taste change, nutrition and health environmental associations in the countries and regions concerns considerations or environmental concerns.
Pension deficit Risks relate to cash contributions, charges Rexams retirement benefit risk management is overseen tothe income statement and balance by the Retirement Benefits Committee RBC which is sheetvolatility.
chaired by the finance director.
The RBC reviews all proposed new promises for and improvements to retirement benefits.
Managing pension deficit volatility on the balance sheet and general derisking of funded plans, which includes equity, interest rate and inflation risks, are undertaken by pension plan fiduciaries in consultation with the RBC.
Cash contributions are paid having regard for regulatory requirements in the countries in which the respective plans operate.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 46 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report key risks risk description key mitigation Business interruption Every business faces the potential risk of its As part of our strategic focus on operational excellence, operations being impacted by disruption Rexam has established protocols and procedures across due to loss of supply, industrial disputes, the Group as a whole such that plans are in place to failures with technology, physical damage ensure business continuity in our operations.
Through as a result of fire, flood or other such event.
2012 we worked to further enhance the principles of business continuity management in our overall approach to risk management.
This year we held awareness sessions and tested our business continuity plans in anumber of head office and plant locations.
Strong relationships with customers and suppliers mean that, where possible, there are arrangements in place to ensure alternative sources of supply or production for critical product lines.
Rexam also has insurance in place to cover losses associated with interruption to business for a stipulated period as a result of property damage orsupply failure.
Environmental, fire, The risk of a significant environmental We continue to carry out regular environment, health health and safety contamination, fire or health and safety and safety EHS audits in cooperation with internal and issue at one of our locations which can external specialists to drive the plants to best practice.
have an impact on the safety of our The audit approach was developed to provide the basis employees, or on our financial situation for delivering a more sustainable and robust or our reputation.
improvement of EHS management systems and performance at all sites and 2012 saw continuous improvement in our key health & safety KPI measures.
In addition we continue with our fire safety and property protection audit supported and performed by AXA Matrix, an independent provider.
The case study on page 42 provides further detail of our focus on fire protection and investing in our systems through 2012.
Supply of faulty or Rexams reputation as a business partner relies Within our strategic focus on operational excellence we contaminated products heavily on its ability to supply quality products have strict control measures and externally accredited on time and in full.
The consequences of not systems in place to ensure that the safety and quality of being able to do so could be severe.
Such our products are maintained.
Rexam also has insurance consequences might include adverse effects on in place to cover liabilities to third parties associated consumer health, loss of market share, financial with product liability.
costs and loss of turnover.
47 risk description key mitigation Tax risks In an increasingly complex international tax We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently, environment, some uncertainty is inevitable inthe jurisdictions in which we operate.
Tax planning in estimating our tax liabilities.
willcomplement and be based around the needs of our operating businesses.
We exercise our judgement in assessing the required level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately to protect our position.
Fraud, bribery, internal The risk of an internal control failure such The Rexam Code of Conduct provides a framework control failure asa Rexam employee committing fraud forall of our policies at Group, sector and individual orbribery.
Training is also carried out in key areas such as the antibribery policy, to ensure that employees are aware of their responsibilities.
The case study on page 44 provides detail on the anti fraud and bribery workshop that we held during 2012.
A Group control framework, setting out key financial controls to be applied across the Group, was implemented in 2012 inorder to ensure consistency and further enhance the control environment.
Rexams Raise Your Concern helpline also allowsemployees to raise anonymously any concernsregarding behaviour that does not conform with Rexam policies.
Funding Risks related to the cost and availability of funds Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound to meet our business needs, movements in economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Rexam interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates negotiates funding requirements in a timely manner ensuring as well as commodity prices.
appropriate headroom is secured to mitigate availability risk.
During the year, we refinanced some of our bonds in the US private placement market at better rates than previously and as a result will reduce our financing costs.
Derivative and other financial instruments are used to manage exposures under conditions agreed by the board.
The case study on page 43 provides detail on the euro crisis committee we setup in response to the current instability in Europe.
Furtherdetails of our financial risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Cyber attack and data Risk of a data security incident which could Rexams IT security procedures and processes ensure security be driven by, for example, cyber attack, that, wherever possible, all servers and computers have virus, data loss or technology failure.
up to date antivirus software.
Backups are made regularly and we perform regular access control checks, system penetration and vulnerability tests along with disaster recovery tests.
Rexams anticyber attack controls are checked and aligned, where appropriate, with external best practice.
The rollout of Windows 7 in early 2013 will further strengthen our mitigation of this risk.
Insufficient talent Risk of insufficient availability of high quality As part of our strategic focus on building a winning knowledge capital knowledge capital particularly to support organisation key mitigations include identifying and expansion in emerging markets.
developing resources for expatriation to support emerging markets, our talent management programme and succession planning.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 48 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report ensure our future The focus is on the longterm prosperity of the business.
This includes embedding longer term thinking, implementing leading practices in risk management and identifying future opportunities.
Rexam Healthcares core expertise lies in injection moulding andhigh speed automated assembly incompliance withGood Manufacturing Practice.
49 directors report sustainability 51 products This section provides a review of our 54 operations sustainability performance in 2012.
56 people Itexplains our approach to and progress inthis area and details our commitments, measures and targets going forward.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 50 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report sustainability Rexam continues to be a member of the London Stock Exchange Creating a sustainable business is central to FTSE4Good index, an international responsibility performance benchmark: the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, an international Rexams vision to be the best in our industry.
reference organisation dedicated to reducing industrys carbon We have an established sustainability impact on the environment: and Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange.
We mirror these organisations belief that business should framework which encompasses the lifecycle be conducted to deliver sustainable success through environmental management, upholding human and labour rights, ethical business of our products, our operations and our practices and supply chain labour standards.
employees as well as the communities in We seek guidance and support from Forum for the Future, an independent non profit organisation who work globally with business which we do business.
This framework helps and governments to create a more sustainable future.
toguide our business and is an assurance In December we joined the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative, a new industry body that seeks to address all sustainability aspects relevant for our customers as they seek to reduce tothe aluminium value chain.
The first objective is to develop a standard that defines the practices required to ensure ethical, environmental theenvironmental impacts of the products andsocial performance across the aluminium value chain.
they market and to ensure an ethical Our most recent sustainability report was published in 2012, using theGlobal Reporting Initiative framework G3.1.
We intend to publish supplychain.
Management responsibility for sustainability sits in the Groups executive leadership team and is co-ordinated by a dedicated director of sustainability.
Each sector has responsibility for the achievement ofstretching targets and has a dedicated member of their own management team to co-ordinate and facilitate internal delivery.
our sustainability framework Our sustainability framework is aimed at making Rexam a more sustainable business across our products, our operations and ourpeople.
It is built around 12 specific commitments and 20 measures which enable usto monitor and report on our progress.
All figures are for continuing operations in 2012 and prior years.
