Principal risks and uncertainties For further information about our approach to risk management, Risk factors please see page 80.
Risks may materialise individually, simultaneously Rio Tintos business units and functions assess the potential economic or in combination and could significantly affect the Groups: and non-economic consequences of their respective risks using the framework defined by the Groups Risk policy and standard.
Principal risks r short, medium and long-term business and prospects: and uncertainties are identified when the Risk Management Committee, r earnings, cash flow and financial position: business unit or function determines that the potential consequences are r overall financial results and product demand: material at a Group level or where the risk is connected and may trigger a succession of events that, in aggregate, become material to the Group.
r current asset values: Once identified, each principal risk or uncertainty is reviewed by the r future asset values and growth potential: relevant internal experts and by the Risk Management Committee.
r safety record and the long, medium and short-term health The following describes all known principal risks and uncertainties that of its employees: could materially affect Rio Tinto.
There may be additional risks unknown r environmental effects: or to Rio Tinto and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, which r Group or business unit reputation.
could turn out to be material.
The risk factors outlined below omit the management detail on how each is managed and mitigated.
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement on the inside front cover.
External risks Factor Nature Commodity prices and global demand Commodity prices and demand are volatile and strongly influenced by world economic conditions.
for the Groups products are expected The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices and not to enter into price to remain uncertain.
Recent volatility in commodity prices and demand may continue, which could adversely affect the Groups earnings, cash flow and reserves.
Past strong demand for the Groups The Group is heavily reliant on the Chinese market and if China experiences an economic downturn, products in China could be affected or if Chinese customers source products from elsewhere, this could adversely affect demand and by future developments in that country.
pricing for the Groups products.
Furthermore, the basis on which the Group prices iron ore in Asia is evolving and to the extent this results in prices or pricing mechanisms that are less favourable to the Group, its earnings and cash flow could be adversely affected.
Rio Tinto is exposed to fluctuations The great majority of the Groups sales are denominated in US dollars, which is also the currency used in exchange rates.
for holding surplus cash, financing operations, and presenting external and internal results.
Although many costs are incurred in US dollars, a significant portion is influenced by the local currencies of the countries where the Group operates, principally the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
The Groups normal policy is to avoid hedging of foreign exchange rates and so the Group may be adversely affected by appreciation in the value of other currencies against the US dollar, or to prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility.
These fluctuations may negatively impact the Groups profitability.
Political, legal and commercial changes The Group has operations in jurisdictions where governments and communities are seeking a greater in the places where the Group operates.
In some jurisdictions commercial instability can arise from a culture of bribery and corruption.
Some operations are conducted under specific agreements with respective governments and associated acts of relevant legislative bodies.
In several countries, land title and rights to land and resources including Indigenous title may be unclear.
Political and administrative change, policy reform, and changes in law or government regulation can result in expropriation, or nationalisation of the Groups rights or assets.
In its operations and development projects, Rio Tinto is exposed to: r renegotiation, unilateral variation or nullification of existing agreements, leases and permits: r changes in government ownership of operations: r significant restoration and environmental clean-up costs: r currency and foreign investment restrictions: r changes in taxation rates, regimes or international tax agreements: r limitations to power, water, energy and infrastructure access: and r general increases in regulation, including compliance costs.
Political instability and uncertainty or government changes to terms applicable to the Groups operations may result in increased costs for the Group, may curtail or negatively impact existing operations and prevent the Group from making future investments.
Community disputes in the countries and Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located in or near communities that territories in which the Group operates.
may regard these operations as being detrimental to them.
Community expectations are typically complex with the potential for multiple inconsistent stakeholder views that may be difficult to resolve.
Stakeholder opinion and community acceptance can be subject to many influences, for example, related industries, operations of other groups, or local, regional or national events in other places where we operate.
These disputes can disrupt our operations and may increase our costs, thereby potentially impacting our revenue and profitability.
In the extreme, our operations may be a focus for civil unrest or criminal activity, which can impact our operational and financial performance, as well as our reputation.
10 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Overview Factor Nature Increased regulation of greenhouse Rio Tintos operations are energy-intensive and depend on fossil fuels.
Worldwide, there is increasing gas emissions could adversely affect regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, tighter emission reduction targets and progressive the Groups cost of operations.
introduction of carbon pricing mechanisms.
These are likely to raise significantly worldwide energy, production and transport costs over the medium to long terms, which will increase the Groups cost base and, potentially, negatively impact the Groups profitability.
Regulations, standards and stakeholder The resources sector is subject to extensive health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and expectations regarding health, safety, standards alongside community and stakeholder expectations.
Evolving regulation, standards and environment and community evolve over stakeholder expectations could result in increased costs, litigation or, in extreme cases, threaten the time and unforeseen changes could have viability of an operation.
an adverse effect on the Groups business and reputation.
Strategic risks The Groups exploration and development Rio Tinto identifies new orebodies and mining properties through its exploration programme, of new projects might be unsuccessful, and develops or expands other operations as a means of generating shareholder value.
Exploration expenditures may not be fully recovered is not always successful and there is a high degree of competition to develop world-class orebodies.
and depleted ore reserves may not The Group may also not be able to source or maintain adequate project financing, or may be unable bereplaced.
to find willing and suitable joint venture partners to share the cost of developing large projects.
Rio Tinto may fail to make or successfully Business combinations entail a number of risks including the cost of effectively integrating integrate acquisitions, or to complete acquisitions to realise synergies, significant write-offs or restructuring charges, and unanticipated divestment agreements.
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions or liabilities it has acquired that are unforeseen or greater than anticipated.
The Group may also retain unforeseen liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to honour all commitments or the Group agrees to retain certain liabilities.
Financial risks The Groups reported results could The Group may be required to record impairment charges as a result of adverse developments in the be adversely affected by the impairment recoverable values of its assets including goodwill.
Significant assumptions in the determination of assets and goodwill.
of recoverable value include, but are not limited to: pricing of the Groups commodities and products, reserves and resources, infrastructure availability, discount and exchange rates, operating cost projections, and timing of expenditure on major projects.
In addition, the occurrence of unexpected events or events beyond the Groups control that adversely impact its business may have an impact on the assumptions underlying the recoverable value of its assets.
The foregoing items are not exhaustive and impairments may be caused by factors currently unknown to the Group.
To the extent that the recoverable value of an asset is impaired, such impairment may negatively impact the Groups profitability during the relevant period.
The Groups liquidity and cash flow The Groups ability to fund planned expenditure such as capital growth, mergers and acquisitions, expectations may not be realised, innovation and other obligations may falter if its cash position proves inadequate.
Our ability inhibiting planned expenditure.
to weather a major economic shock for example, in the eurozone could be compromised by insufficient cash reserves, a reduction in the value of existing reserves, or restricted access to these and other sources of cash, including the international capital markets.
General cost inflation in the resources Input costs in the resources sector have risen at a disproportionate rate, adversely affecting the sector is affecting both operations and economics of current operations and increasing the cost of our capital expansion projects.
Many projects, resulting in significant pressure of these input costs are linked to commodity prices and in the case of capital expansion projects the on capital and operating costs.
time lag between incurring project costs and receiving revenue can result in additional exposure to commodity markets.
Failure to contain costs may have an adverse impact on our operating margins and the viability of our capital expansion projects.
Operational risks Estimates of ore reserves are There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, including subjective judgments based on uncertain assumptions that, and determinations that are based on available geological, technical, contract and economic if changed, could result in the need information.
Previously valid assumptions may change significantly with new information, which may to restate ore reserves.
result in changes to the economic viability of some reserves and the need for them to be restated.
Labour disputes could lead to lost Some of the Groups employees, including employees in non-managed operations, are represented production and or increased costs.
by labour unions under various collective labour agreements.
The Group may not be able satisfactorily to renegotiate agreements when they expire and may face difficult negotiations or higher wage demands.
In addition, labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
com 11 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks continued Factor Nature Some of the Groups technologies are The Group has invested in and implemented new technologies in both information systems and unproven and failures could adversely operational initiatives, some of which are unproven and their eventual viability cannot be assessed impact costs and or productivity.
The actual benefits of these technologies may differ materially from expectations.
The Group may be exposed to major Rio Tinto operates within a complex supply chain depending on suppliers of materials, services, failures in the supply chain for specialist equipment, and infrastructure, and on providers of logistics.
Supply chain failures, or significantly equipment and materials.
increased costs within the supply chain, for whatever reason, could have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
Joint ventures, strategic partnerships The Group participates in several joint venture and partnership arrangements, and it may enter or non-managed operations may not into others, all of which necessarily involve risk.
Whether or not the Group holds majority interests be successful and may not comply with or maintains operational control in its joint ventures, its partners may: the Groups standards.
r have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, those of the Group: r exercise veto rights to block actions that the Group believes are in its or the joint ventures best interests: or r be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.
Where these joint ventures are controlled and managed by others, the Group may provide expertise and advice but has limited control over compliance with its standards and objectives, such that partners may take action contrary to the Groups interests or policies with respect to its investment.
The Groups operations are vulnerable 1.
Natural disasters and events to a range of interruptions, not all of Mining, smelting, refining and infrastructure installations are vulnerable to natural events including which are covered fully by insurance.
earthquakes, drought, flood, fire, storm and the possible effects of climate change.
Sustained operational difficulties Operating difficulties are many and various, ranging from unexpected geological variations that could result in significant ground or containment failure to breakdown of key capital equipment.
Reliable roads, rail networks, ports, power generation and transmission, and water supplies are required to access and conduct our operations.
Limitations, or interruptions in transport infrastructure, including as a result of third parties gaining access to our integrated facilities, could impede its ability to deliver products.
Information technology and cyber security The Group relies heavily on information technology and process control systems to support our business.
In common with most large, global companies, the Group has experienced cyber attacks and is faced with ongoing threats to the confidentiality, integrity and availability of such systems.
Whilst no material losses related to cyber security breaches have been discovered, given the increasing sophistication and evolving nature of this threat, we cannot rule out the possibility of them occurring in the future.
An extended failure of critical system components, caused by accidental, or malicious actions, including those resulting from a cyber security attack, could result in a significant environmental incident, commercial loss or interruption to operations.
Major operational failure The Groups operations involve chemicals and other substances stored under high temperature and pressure, with the potential for fire, explosion or other loss of control of the process, leading to a release of hazardous materials.
This could occur by accident or a breach of operating standards, and could result in a significant incident.
The Groups insurance does not cover every potential loss associated with its operations and adequate coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable.
In addition, insurance provision may not fully cover its liability or the consequences of any business interruption.
Any occurrence not fully covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
The Group depends on the continued The Groups ability to maintain its competitive position is dependent on the services of a wide range services of key personnel.
of highly skilled and experienced personnel available in the locations where they are needed.
Failure to recruit and retain key staff, and the inability to deploy staff worldwide, where they are most needed, could affect the Groups business.
Similar constraints may be felt by the Groups key consultants, contractors and suppliers, thereby impacting the Groups expansion plans.
The Groups costs of close-down, Close-down and reclamation works to return operating sites to the community can be extensive and reclamation, and rehabilitation could costly.
Estimated costs are provided for, and updated annually, over the life of each operation but the be higher than expected.
provisions might prove to be inadequate due to changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new reclamation techniques.
In addition, the expected timing of expenditure could change significantly due to changes in the business environment that might vary the life of an operation.
12 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report Performance Performance Contents Sustainable development 14 Product groups Aluminium 22 Copper 24 Diamonds & Minerals 26 Energy 28 Iron Ore 30 Business Support & Operations 32 Exploration 32 Technology & Innovation 33 Financial review 34 Five year review 42 Acquisitions and divestments 43 Capital projects 44 Detailed financial information on the product groups can be found within the Financial review on pages 34 to 41. riotinto.
