Business and financial review Principal risks and uncertainties Our risk profile evolves as we move through the economic cycle.
Set out below are the principal business risks that currently impact the Group and information on how we mitigate against these: Economic conditions Potential impact Strategy for mitigation The construction industry, from which we earn the majority of Prudent management through the different phases our revenue, is cyclical and typically lags the general economic of the cycle.
cycle by between six and 18 months.
Our performance is Flexibility in the business model.
currently ahead of the economic cycle and we therefore expect to see further upside as the economy returns to growth.
Capital structure and debt facilities arranged in recognition of the cyclical nature of our market.
Competition Potential impact Strategy for mitigation The already competitive market could become even more Create commercial advantage by providing the competitive and we could suffer increased competition from highest level of service, consistently and at a price large national competitors or small companies operating at a which offers value.
local level resulting in reduced market share and lower revenue.
Excel in the areas that provide barriers to entry to newcomers: industry-leading IT, experienced personnel and a broad network and equipment fleet.
Regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors.
Financing Potential impact Strategy for mitigation Debt facilities are only ever committed for a finite period of Maintain conservative 2 to 3 times net debt to EBITDA time and we need to plan to renew our facilities before they leverage which helps minimise our refinancing risk.
mature and guard against default.
Our loan agreements Maintain long debt maturities currently four years.
also contain conditions known as covenants with which we must comply.
Use of asset-based senior facility means none of our debt contains quarterly financial covenants when availability under the enlarged facility $735m at year end exceeds $216m.
Business continuity Potential impact Strategy for mitigation We are heavily dependent on technology for the smooth Robust and well-protected data centres with multiple running of our business given the large number of both units data links to protect against the risk of failure.
of equipment we rent and our customers.
A serious uncured Detailed business recovery plans which are tested failure in our point of sale IT platforms would have an immediate periodically.
impact, rendering us unable to record and track our high volume, low transaction value operations.
Separate near-live back-up data centres which are designed to be able to provide the necessary services in the event of a failure at the primary site.
18 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 People Potential impact Strategy for mitigation Retaining and attracting good people is key to delivering superior Provide well-structured and competitive reward and performance and customer service.
benefit packages that ensure our ability to attract and retain the employees we need.
Excessive staff turnover is likely to impact on our ability to maintain the appropriate quality of service to our customers and Ensure that our staff have the right working environment would ultimately impact our financial performance adversely.
and equipment to enable them to do the best job possible and maximise their satisfaction at work.
Invest in training and career development opportunities for our people to support them in their careers.
Health and safety Potential impact Strategy for mitigation Accidents could happen which might result in injury Maintain appropriate health and safety policies and to an individual, claims against the Group and damage procedures to reasonably guard our employees against to our reputation.
Induction and training programmes reinforce health and safety policies.
Programmes to support our customers exercising their responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
Compliance with laws and regulations Potential impact Strategy for mitigation Failure to comply with the frequently changing regulatory Maintaining a legal function to oversee management environment could result in reputational damage or of these risks and to achieve compliance with financial penalty.
Group-wide ethics policy and whistle-blowing arrangements.
Policies and practices evolve to take account of changes in legal obligations.
Training and induction programmes ensure our staff receive appropriate training and briefing on the relevant policies.
Environmental Potential impact Strategy for mitigation We need to comply with the numerous laws governing Policies and procedures in place at all our environmental protection and occupational health and safety stores regarding the need to adhere to local laws matters.
These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, and regulations.
stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air Procurement policies reflect the need for the latest quality.
Breaches potentially create hazards to our employees, available emissions management and fuel efficiency damage to our reputation and expose the Group to, amongst tools in our fleet.
other things, the cost of investigating and remediating contamination and also fines and penalties for non-compliance.
Monitoring and reporting of carbon emissions.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19
