Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 30 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 statement of principal risks and uncertainties The major risks affecting the Group are first identified and considered The assessment and management of risk is the responsibility of the Board, and the development and execution of a comprehensive and by the divisional boards during their regular meetings.
Once a risk has been identified, it is allocated to one of the directors to ensure the robust system of risk management is a high priority in Rotork.
This is based on an established process for the identification and risk is appropriately considered and the risk is managed.
Risks are categorised by likelihood and potential impact on the business, and management of risk, first at divisional board level, and then for the Group as a whole.
Rotork works within the governance framework once the assessment matrix is completed by each division, the risks are then aggregated and re-evaluated in relation to the Group as a set out in our corporate governance statement, see page 46. whole.
Identified risks are discussed and the progress reviewed at both Rotork Management Board and divisional board meetings The Boards role in risk management involves promoting a culture that emphasises integrity at all levels of business operations.
Senior management, in association with the full Board of Directors, meets twice a year to consider the Group risk includes ensuring that risk management is embedded within the core processes of the Group, determining the principle risks, and ensuring matrix and progress with mitigating actions.
The external Auditor is invited to attend one of the meetings each year.
that these are communicated effectively across the businesses and setting the overall policies for risk management and control.
This is an ongoing process involving regular assessment of the risks, with clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and The Group Finance Director is responsible for risk management within implementing appropriate controls to manage the identified risks.
the Group and leads the development of the risk management We are therefore confident that we have a methodology for process and the tools used.
The Board approves appetite for risk at ensuring that the Groups approach to dealing with individual risks both Group and divisional level and the consequential actions in is robust and timely.
terms of mitigation where possible and appropriate.
We identify three main risk areas: The processes of risk management within the businesses involve: Strategic Risks that potentially could affect the strategic aims of Identification and regular assessment of individual risks at both the business, or those issues that could affect the strategic subsidiary and divisional level: objectives that the Group is addressing: Reviewing previously identified risks and the effectiveness of Operational Risks arising out of the operational activities of the mitigation where appropriate: Group relating to areas such as logistics, procurement, product Design of controls to mitigate identified risks: development and interaction with commercial partners: and Testing the controls through management review and internal audit: and Financial Issues that could affect the finances of the business Forming a conclusion on the effectiveness of the control both externally from matters initially outside of our control, and environment in place.
from the perspective of internal controls and processes.
The risks considered during the process cover all aspects of the Groups activities and include environmental and ethical risks as well as product, competitor, reputational or financial risks but not all of these areas are represented in the top 10 risks which are listed opposite.
These are categorised by the three main risk areas identified above.
Mitigation, where possible, is shown for each risk area identified.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 31 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 STRATEGIC RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Competition on price as a Where a competitor decides to use cost savings to reduce Rotork already has a direct presence, in terms of result of an existing competitor their selling prices, this could lead to a reduction in the production, sales and service support, in the major low moving to manufacture in a general market price.
Rotork might need to respond to a cost locations.
There is a constant drive to maintain lower cost area of the world.
change in market price levels whilst still maintaining the differentiation from the competition both in terms of the price premium currently enjoyed for some products.
quality of our products and of the service we provide.
Not having the appropriate In order to be able to compete on a project, our products Development of products to meet required specifications products, either in terms of must meet both the necessary specification and pricing is an ongoing activity as is the drive to take cost out of our features or costs.
A failure on either count could harm our competitive products to meet target pricing levels.
Lower investment in Rotorks A reduction in capital or maintenance expenditure in one Identification of new markets takes place in each location traditional market sectors.
of Rotorks key market sectors would result in a smaller and is coordinated at divisional level.
This is supported by addressable market, which in turn could lead to a product development and innovation to address new reduction in revenue from that sector.
markets and new applications in existing markets.
At a Group level our geographic and end-market diversification provides resilience to a reduction in any one area or market.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Major in field product failure Replacement of defective components or complete units A comprehensive set of quality control procedures arising from a component would give rise to a direct financial cost but there would operates over suppliers.
These include supplier visits, defect or warranty issue which also be a reputational risk.
audits and a scorecard system to measure their might require a product recall.
In some markets legislation determines that this risk is entirely passed to the end-user.
Failure of a key supplier or a Where customer delivery expectations are not met, this Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible with tooling failure at a supplier could lead to financial penalties and damage customer regular monitoring and replacement of tooling at all causing disruption to planned relationships.
Maintaining inventory levels sufficient to protect manufacturing.
Failure of an acquisition to Whilst growth opportunities, cost savings and synergies During the due diligence process and preparation of the deliver the growth or synergies are identified prior to completion, these may not always 100 day plan, consideration is given to the composition anticipated, due to incorrect be delivered at the levels anticipated or to the timetable and skills of the management team.
Training and support assumptions or changing expected.
is provided by a variety of Rotork personnel to ensure market conditions, or failure to effective integration and communication of Rotorks integrate an acquisition to policies and procedures, whilst monitoring delivery of the ensure compliance with financial plan.
Failure of the centralised IT Commercially sensitive data is stored and transmitted A wide range of security, back up and contingency environment, or other loss or electronically.
The Group is therefore exposed to the risk measures are in place to protect against these risks.
of data loss, either maliciously or unintentionally.
the increased centralisation of IT, a more robust disaster recovery environment is under development and will be in The Group has one centrally hosted Enterprise Resource place before a material number of companies utilise the Planning ERP system covering the manufacturing sites and new ERP system.
is in the process of rolling out a new ERP system which will ultimately be used worldwide.
FINANCIAL RISKS Description Potential Impact Mitigation Volatility of exchange rates.
Significant fluctuations in exchange rates could have an A clear treasury hedging policy addresses short term risk adverse impact on Rotorks reported results.
and this works together with the natural hedging provided by the geographical spread of operations, sourcing and customers.
Political instability in a key Disruption of normal business activity would impact our The wide geographic spread of Rotorks operations and end-market.
sales in that country and might ultimately leads to loss of customers diminishes the impact of any one market.
any assets located in that country as well.
Defined benefit pension The amount of the deficit may be adversely affected by a Both defined benefit schemes are closed to new scheme deficit.
number of factors including investment returns, long term members, with the UK scheme closed in January 2003. interest rates, price inflation and members longevity.
This The Group and Trustees monitor the performance of the in turn might lead to a requirement for the Company to scheme regularly, taking actuarial and investment advice increase cash contributions to the schemes.
The results of these reviews are discussed by the Board.
