RPC Group Plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Principal risks RPC is subject to a number of risks, both external and internal, some of which could haveasignificant impact on the performance of its business.
A regular review is conducted of these risks to identify both the nature and magnitude ofariskand the manner in which it can be mitigated.
Therisks that are seen as being particularly important at the current time are: Area of risk Description of risk Mitigation Polymer price The key raw material used in the manufacture of rigid The Group is able to pass on the majority of polymer andavailability plastic packaging is polymer, and for RPC this is principally price increases to its customers through agreed polypropylene, high density polyethylene and polystyrene.
contractual terms, providing an effective hedge The prices of each of these polymers are subject to againstpolymer price changes, albeit with a time considerable volatility as they tend to follow the underlying lag.
The Group has also reduced its dependence price of oil, as well as changes in global supply and demand, onindividual suppliers by adapting its manufacturing and polymer prices have risen significantly in recent years.
sites to convert a wider range of polymer grades, In addition some polymer supplies have been seriously tomitigate the risk of supply disruption.
This will affected by plant breakdowns and maintenance, resulting continue as new suppliers come on stream in inshortages.
areassuch as the Middle East, Brazil andIndia.
Energy costs The action of heating and cooling polymer in the process The Group has sought to adapt its plants to an era of manufacturing rigid plastic packaging entails the use of of higher and fluctuating electricity prices by the substantial amounts of electricity.
The price of electricity is combination of a purchasing strategy which balances subject to volatility and is a significant cost of manufacture.
the risks by buying a proportion of expected electricity demand at fixed rates, and a drive to reduce the amountof electricity consumed per tonne of material converted through efficiency improvements and the useof technical advances in equipment and processes.
The Group also participates in a Climate Change Agreement, through the British Plastics Federation, which sets out energy reduction targets.
Dependency on As the top 10 customers in the Group account for 26% There is a high degree of mutual dependency between keycustomers ofsales, the loss of any one of them could significantly RPC and its customers and because of the Groups size, affectthe Groups results.
product range and the joint investment often required todevelop a product, many customers would have greatdifficulty in moving their business to another supplier in the short term.
In addition customer retention is strengthened by the Group remaining responsive tocustomer requests, servicing them properly with quality products and continuing to develop packaging products that are suited to their needs.
Business Every business faces the potential risk of operations being The Group maintains alternative sources of supply interruption impacted by disruption due to loss of supply, failures with wherever possible and if a problem is localised, in and the loss of technology, industrial disputes and physical damage arising manycases it is possible to manufacture the product essentialservices from fire, flood or other such event.
The loss of essential from another site within the RPC Group.
In addition sites and supplies services or products produced by a major supplier could have established protocols and procedures to ensure have a significant impact on the Groups ability to service business continuity in the event of a major incident.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Area of risk Description of risk Mitigation Pricing and RPC supplies major European and multinational companies The Group continually strives to provide optimal competitive which have the ability to switch significant volumes between customer service and be at the forefront of product pressures alternative suppliers thereby increasing pressure on prices.
and process innovation while at the same time seeking to reduce its cost base and to achieve improved productivity, efficiency and economies of scale.
Asignificant part of the Groups sales are bespoke with longer-term contracts in place.
In addition the Groups ability to continue to invest and maintain its innovation capabilities across a range of conversion technologies in the challenging economic environment of the last few years has improved its competitive position.
Financial risks The Group faces risks relating to the cost and availability RPCs treasury activities are governed by policies and of funds to meet its business needs, movements in interest procedures approved and monitored by the Board.
rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
In particular The Group negotiates funding requirements in a timely as over half of the Groups businesses report in euros, the manner ensuring appropriate headroom is secured Groups earnings and net assets are affected by any volatility and funding tenure obtained to mitigate availability risk.
During the year the Group undertook a refinancing in the US Private Placement market, raising $216m and 60m with maturities in 2018 and 2021.
Cross currency swaps have been used to hedge against any currency volatility when these notes fall due for repayment.
RPC borrows at both fixed and floating rates in order to give a degree of stability to the composite interest rate charged each year.
The Group has some transactional exposure to the euro.
The balance sheet translation exposure is hedged by ensuring that borrowings in euros broadly balance the Groups net assets in euros, and any significant transactional exposures are managed using approved financial derivatives.
The risk of fire represents the most significant physical risk Sites generally have sprinkler and or smoke detection Safeguarding to the Group and the impact of a major catastrophe of this systems in place.
In addition, the Group carries a physical property type could be considerable.
comprehensive property damage and business interruption insurance policy.
