Risk Management The Group supplies a wide range of services in many markets and countries.
This gives rise to a range of risks that are recognised, assessed and effectively managed.
The Groups system of planning, budgeting and performance review assists with the identification and management of risk.
The management of these risks is not separated from the business, but is treated as an integral part of our culture and the way we operate.
Each of our businesses is expected to identify and take appropriate steps to mitigate risks associated with its operations.
The Executive Committee oversees the management of risk to which the Group is exposed and reports those of a material nature to the Board together with recommendations for their mitigation.
The principal risks to which the Group is currently exposed and is likely to be exposed in the future are outlined below.
Economic Environment Continuing economic uncertainty may cause the Groups clients to cancel, postpone or reduce existing or future projects.
Continuing projects may be subject to greater cost pressures.
The consequence is that we could have staff levels that exceed current workload and therefore incur the cost of un-productive time.
Although market factors are beyond our control, our exposure to a wide range of markets across the world mitigates the impact of downturn in any single market.
Our contractual order book is monitored regularly in comparison to the productive capacity of our fee earning staff.
Changing economic conditions in our various markets are closely monitored in order that pre-emptive action can, as far as possible, be taken.
The risks associated with the Eurozone crisis are limited to the extent that only the Groups businesses in The Netherlands and Republic of Ireland are located within Eurozone and trade through its currency.
The wider global downturn that might be triggered by a deterioration in the position are beyond the Groups direct control but may be mitigated to a degree by the factors listed above.
Material Adverse Events Adverse occurrences may impact our ability to deliver our services and our clients demand for them.
These are most likely to be of an environmental nature such as the catastrophic flooding that adversely affected both our own and our clients operations in Queensland in 2011 and the Macondo oil spill in 2010 that led to a moratorium on deep water drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
Events of this type are impossible to predict but the range of countries within which we operate and markets we serve limits the impact upon the Group as a whole.
No new events of this type and scale affected us during the year.
A lengthy failure or discontinuity in our IT systems could also have a significant impact upon our operations.
The Groups IT systems are centrally managed with certain specific functions carried out locally.
An annual Group plan is produced which includes measures designed to ensure reliability and resilience of the Groups systems as well as appropriate catastrophe planning.
The Group has operations in a large number of locations, which would enhance its ability to withstand any individual failure or malfunction.
The Group has never experienced a significant failure or discontinuity of this type.
Recruitment and Retention of Key Personnel The Groups services are performed by well-qualified and professional employees with expertise across a wide range of areas.
A failure to recruit and retain employees of appropriate calibre will, accordingly, impact our ability to meet our clients requirements and correspondingly to maintain and grow our business.
As described on pages 10 and 11 the Group maintains appropriate remuneration and incentive structures which are reviewed on a regular basis and maintains an environment that is supportive of professional development through training and career opportunity.
Market Position and Reputation The Groups reputation for project delivery relies upon its public portrayal and the perception of existing and prospective clients.
A major failure of project management or delivery could, accordingly, impact our ability to win future work.
The Group operates a range of appropriate management and quality control systems, many of which are externally accredited and are designed to enable our employees to provide a consistently high standard of work.
Compliance and Litigation A failure to deliver our services in accordance with our contractual obligations may lead to a risk of the Group becoming involved in litigation.
In addition, as the contracting environment has evolved, clients in some of our businesses have sought to transfer certain risks to the consultants it employs.
The internal review processes operated by the Group seek to ensure that contractual risks are properly scrutinised and mitigated as far as possible whilst the management and quality control systems highlighted above minimise the risk of shortfalls in performance Report and Accounts 2012 8 Business Review that may give rise to litigation.
Appropriate professional indemnity insurance is also maintained in addition to a normal range of other commercial insurance covers.
From time to time the Group receives claims from clients and suppliers.
Some of these result in payments to the claimants by the Group and its insurers.
The Board reviews all significant claims at each board meeting and the Board is currently satisfied that the Group has sufficient provisions in its balance sheet to meet all uninsured liabilities, including those which have arisen for the first time in 2012.
The Group is subject to a range of taxation and legal requirements.
A failure to comply with these obligations could give rise to legal liability, financial loss and reputational damage.
The Group has in place appropriate internal controls to deal with such matters and employs appropriately qualified employees through whom it monitors and responds to the regulatory requirements of the countries in which it operates.
Business Acquisitions As in the past the Group intends to develop and grow the business, in part, by making acquisitions.
A failure to identify acquired liabilities or to integrate acquired businesses could have an adverse impact on the Groups performance and prospects.
Detailed due diligence is performed on all potential acquisitions drawing upon both internal and external resources.
This will include an assessment of the ability to integrate the acquired business within the Group.
When a business is acquired detailed integration plans are developed and monitored to ensure successful integration into the Group and its control framework.
The integration of Manidis Roberts has been succesful thus far.
Funding The availability of sufficient and appropriate funding through the Groups bank facilities is important to support the Groups growth and in particular to fund acquisitions.
The Groups facilities which were due to expire in 2013 were renewed during 2012.
The Group now has in place a revolving credit facility with Lloyds Bank for 75m, together with an additional 50m in the form of an accordion facility that is available upon request by the Group, subject to credit approval being given by the bank.
This new facility will expire in July 2016.
Health and Safety The Groups activities require the monitoring and management of the health and safety of its employees as well as to sub-contractors, client personnel and the general public.
A failure to manage this risk could expose the Group to significant potential liabilities as well as damage to reputation.
Detailed health and safety policies and procedures are in place to minimise such risk.
The Groups approach to the management of health and safety is described on page 12. rpsgroup.
