22 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Principal risks Monitoring and managing the risks we face The principal risks facing the group and considered by the board are detailed below.
The groups comprehensive risk management process is described in the corporate governance section while financial risks arediscussed in the Chief Financial Officers review and in note 23 to theconsolidated financial statements.
Context Specific risks we face Possible impact Mitigation Associated strategic priorities Principal risk The global brewing and beverages industry is Failing to participate in value-adding transactions.
Lower growth rate, profitability Potential transactions are subject to rigorous analysis.
Creating a balanced and attractive Industry consolidation expected to continue to consolidate.
There will Paying too much to acquire a business.
Onlyopportunities with potential to create value are pursued.
continue to be opportunities to enter attractive Not implementing integration plans successfully.
Proven integration processes, procedures and practices Constantly raising the profitability growth markets, to realise synergy benefits from areappliedto ensure delivery of expected returns.
integration and to leverage our global scale.
Activities to deliver synergies and leverage scale are in place, monitored closely and continuously enhanced.
Develop non-traditional capabilities to enter and grow profitablyinnew markets.
Consumer tastes and behaviours are constantly Failing to ensure the strength and relevance Market positions come under Ongoing evaluation of our brand portfolios in every market to ensure Developing strong, relevant Change in consumer evolving, and at an increasingly rapid rate.
ofour brands with consumers and customers.
pressure, lower top-line growth that they target current and future opportunities for profitable growth.
brandportfolios that win in preferences Competition in the beverage industry is Failing to respond in an adequate and timely rates and profitability.
Building our brand equities through innovation and compelling thelocal market.
expanding and becoming more fragmented, manner to rapidly changing consumer marketing programmes.
Constantly raising the profitability complex and sophisticated.
Ensuring we have deep understanding of changing consumer of local businesses, sustainably.
Failing to continue to improve our commercial andindustry dynamics in key markets, enabling us to respond Leveraging our skills and capabilities to deliver brand propositions that appropriately to issues which may impact our business performance.
meet consumer, shopper and customer needs.
Continued enhancement of the SABMiller Marketing Way which sets out the best-practice approach for our commercial processes.
Focus on monitoring and benchmarking commercial performance and developing the critical commercial capabilities that are required inorder to win in local markets.
We believe that our people are our Failing to identify, develop and retain a sufficient Lower long-term Further develop our leadership talent pipeline through our Developing strong, relevant Management enduringadvantage and therefore it is pipeline of talented managers for the present profitablegrowth.
GlobalTalent Management model and strategic people resourcing.
brandportfolios that win in capability essentialthat wedevelop and maintain andfuture needs of the group.
Sustaining a strong culture of accountability, empowerment thelocal market.
Constantly raising the profitability Standardisation of key processes and best practices across of local businesses, sustainably.
thegroup through the roll-out of the SABMiller Ways.
Leveraging our skills and Recognising strong performance through appropriate reward globalscale.
With increasing and high-profile debate over Regulation places increasing restrictions Lower growth, profitability Rigorous adherence to the principle of self-regulation backed Creating a balanced and Regulatory alcohol consumption in many markets, the ontheavailability and marketing of beer.
andcontribution to local byappropriate policies and management review.
attractive global spread changes alcohol industry is coming under increasing Tax and excise changes cause pressure communities in some Constructive engagement with government and all external ofbusinesses.
pressure from national and international onpricing.
Developing strong, relevant brand regulators, NGOs and tax authorities.
Investment to improve the economic and social impact of our portfolios that win in the local businesses in local communities and working in partnership market.
Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably.
Following the Fosters acquisition, we have Failing to deliver integration objectives and Lower growth rates and Embedding of the SABMiller Ways processes, Creating a balanced and Acquisition committed to delivering an integration plan with commercial and operational excellence targets profitability.
Damage to systems and tools throughout the Fosters business.
attractive global spread of Fosters value creation defined by specific, communicated communicated as part of the integration plan.
ourreputation for strong Ongoing monitoring of progress versus the integration plan, including ofbusinesses.
medium-term targets, synergies and cost savings Failing to achieve the synergy and cost saving commercial capability and frequent and regular tracking of key performance indicators.
Developing strong, relevant brand from the Fosters business.
formaking value-creating portfolios that win in the local acquisitions.
Leveraging our skills and globalscale.
The group continues to execute a major business Failing to derive the expected benefits Increased programme costs, Senior leadership closely involved in monitoring progress Constantly raising the profitability Delivering business capability programme that will simplify processes, fromtheprojects currently under way.
delays in benefit realisation, and in making key decisions.
transformation reduce costs and allow local management teams Failing to contain programme costs or ensure business disruption.
Mechanisms in place to track both costs and benefits.
Leveraging our skills and to focus more closely on their markets.
execution is in line with planned timelines.
Rigorous programme management and governance processes globalscale.
withdedicated resources and clear accountability.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 23 Kozel 11 Origin: Czech Republic First brewed: 2005 www.
cz The Velke Popovice brewery in Central Bohemia first produced Kozel in 1874.
Kozel 11 is the most recent variant launched in 2005.
A traditional lager beer with a pleasantly bitter taste, gentle malt and hoppy aroma and a perfect sparkle.
24 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Poker Dating back to 1929, the mainstream Poker brand ispart of Colombian culture.
Its strong positioning as The friend that unites friends has helped to transform it from a regional brand into one of the countrys market leaders.
