Key risks We manage risks carefully to ensure success for us and our customers External business factors Change management A key element in achieving As a technology company, operating in Our strategy has sought to focus the our strategy and maintaining many different countries throughout the business and appropriately prioritise services to customers is the world, there is a risk that Sage does not resources.
Given new business priorities, appropriately respond to external business there are risks associated with the change management of risks.
factors, such as changing business needs, management impact on employees, systems changing technologies, competitor activities, and the alignment of talent with prioritised Our risk management strategy compliance and regulatory requirements business areas.
In addition, while Sage is therefore to support the and the economic environment.
operates in a decentralised culture, with many different operating companies across successful running of the the globe, there is a risk, as with any other business by identifying and business, relating to key man dependencies managing risks to an acceptable and loss of key management.
level and delivering assurances on this.
See how we are mitigating these risks on page 40 The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of External business Change the Groups system of internal factors management controls and risk management.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
Detail of internal control and risk management is on page 57 Products and Intellectual services property Products and services Intellectual property There is a risk to Sages reputation and Sage relies on intellectual property laws, future ability to grow as a business if including laws on copyright, patents, trade poor quality products and services are secrets and trademarks, to protect our released to customers.
Despite laws and regulations being to both traditional on-premise products in place, unauthorised copies of software still and services and online, customer facing exist.
The internet provides new methods for products and services.
In addition, for illegal copying of the technology used in online customer facing products and Sages products and services.
services, Sage must ensure that it adequately protects and secures customers data.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
