Principal risks and uncertainties Sound management Risks can materialise and impact on both the achievement of business strategy and the successful running of our business A key element in achieving our strategy and maintaining services to our customers is the management of risks.
Our risk management strategy is therefore to support the successful running of the business by identifying and managing risks to an acceptable level and delivering assurances on this.
In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties set out below, we have reviewed our plans in light of potential risks to achieving our strategic objectives.
Principal risks and uncertainties have been updated to reflect high level strategic risks.
Lower level strategic risks are analysed and mitigated via the normal embedded risk management processes.
External business factors Products and services Change management Intellectual property Risk As a technology company, operating in many different There is a risk to Sages reputation and future ability to grow Our strategy has sought to focus the business and appropriately Sage relies on intellectual property laws, including laws on Risk countries throughout the world, there is a risk that Sage as a business if poor quality products and services are released to prioritise resources.
Given new business priorities, there are risks copyright, patents, trade secrets and trademarks, to protect does not appropriately respond to external business factors, customers.
This risk relates to both traditional on-premise products associated with the change management impact on employees, our products.
Despite laws and regulations being in place, such as changing business needs, changing technologies, and services and online, customer facing products and services.
systems and the alignment of talent with prioritised business areas.
unauthorised copies of software still exist.
The internet competitor activities, compliance and regulatory requirements In addition, for online customer facing products and services, In addition, while Sage operates in a decentralised culture, with provides new methods for illegal copying of the technology and the economic environment.
Sage must ensure that it adequately protects and secures many different operating companies across the globe, there is a risk, used in Sages products and services.
as with any other business, relating to key man dependencies and loss of key management.
Potential There is a potential for an adverse impact on business Sages reputation and competitive advantage could be jeopardised If the change management implications of resource prioritisation are Illegal or unauthorised copies of Sages software could be Potential impact performance if external business factors and changes thereto are if a poor quality product or service is released to customers.
The not identified and managed, talent and resources key to successful sold without our knowledge, impacting financial results and impact not appropriately addressed.
Such adverse impacts could affect impact of Sages products and services on its customers ability strategic delivery could be lost.
Loss of key knowledge or personnel, Sages reputation.
Sages competitive position, revenue and margin, make demands to do business increases the severity of the risk.
The change in the or failure to update systems to respond to changing business on employees and cause financial penalties to be incurred.
product and services landscape in terms of online customer facing priorities could result in an inability for Sage to operate effectively products and services and the need to ensure reliability and and maintain a competitive edge.
Loss of key management could availability also increase the potential impact of the risk.
result in important, sensitive information leaving the Group.
Mitigation We continue to build strong customer relationships, develop and Sage has detailed product and service release and quality control A change management programme including a talent review While relying, as other companies do, on the laws and Mitigation process expand our product and services offering and seek organic and procedures which are adhered to in advance of a product or service and systems requirements review is in place to ensure change regulations in existence, Sage continually polices the process acquisitive growth opportunities.
We develop appropriate strategic release.
Sage also has thorough quality assurance processes and management implications are addressed.
Sage has detailed key unauthorised use of its products.
Sage also ensures the direction and maintain knowledge of industry developments to initiatives relating to the level of service provided to customers.
Sage man dependency identification processes and detailed succession secure storage of source code throughout the Group.
ensure a proactive response to changing needs.
Our business model has a detailed framework to control the risks associated with the planning processes in place to mitigate against the risk of loss of and the significant percentage of our revenue which is recurring, give provision of online services and the protection of customers data.
comfort and support against economic exposure.
Our Group-wide compliance programme seeks to ensure that local, national and international regulatory requirements are identified and complied with.
A detailed quarterly forecasting process helps to ensure robust and realistic challenge to financial performance.
40 e M t i a t i u g l a a t v e E Principal risks The processes to identify and manage the principal risks to the success of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Internal control and risk management To see how our internal control and risk management processes and responsibilities work, see our Corporate governance report.
More information on page 57 External business factors Products and services Change management Intellectual property Risk As a technology company, operating in many different There is a risk to Sages reputation and future ability to grow Our strategy has sought to focus the business and appropriately Sage relies on intellectual property laws, including laws on Risk countries throughout the world, there is a risk that Sage as a business if poor quality products and services are released to prioritise resources.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 41 y A f i n t n a l e y d s I e Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
