Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties Serco has a well-established and embedded system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, designed to safeguard shareholders investments, our assets and our reputation.
The Board has overall responsibility for our internal control system Risk identication and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has delegated to management In identifying the potential risks associated with the achievement the implementation of policies on risk and control.
of our business objectives, we consider both external factors arising from the environment within which we operate, and internal risks arising Risk management is fundamental to how we manage the business: from the nature of our business, its controls and processes, and our it informs decision making and aligns to the organisations strategic management decisions.
We have developed robust systems and processes to identify and manage the key risks facing each of our businesses and the Group Once identied, we document risks in Risk Registers which are as a whole, and all parts of the business have appropriate risk and crisis maintained at a contract, programme, Business Unit, Divisional and management plans that meet dened policy standards.
These Risk Registers change as new risks emerge and existing risks diminish, so that the registers reect the current threats Whilst Divisional Boards review quarterly the risks they face, the Group to the relevant strategic objectives.
We review the Group and Divisional Risk Management and Safety Committee GRMSC, a formal committee Risk Registers at least quarterly and more frequently as required.
of the Executive Committee, meets quarterly to provide governance and The GRMSC reviews the Group Risk Register quarterly ahead of oversight of risk across the Group.
The Board receives a quarterly report formal review by the Board.
on the GRMSCs assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the action being taken by management to mitigate risks that are outside Risk assessment of the Groups risk appetite.
We assess the potential effect of each identied risk on the achievement of our business objectives and wider stakeholder interests.
To do so, Our risk management policies, systems and processes conform to we use a risk scoring system based on our assessment of the probability the requirements of the Combined Code and form part of the Serco of a risk materialising and the impact if it does.
This is assessed from Management System SMS.
three perspectives: Such systems and processes, however, can only be designed to mitigate, O The risks signicance to the achievement of our business objectives rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance, against O The risks signicance to society, including its impact on public safety misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that this process has been and the environment, and in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
O Our ability to inuence, control and mitigate the risk.
Our approach to risk within the Serco Analysis of our key risks allows us to assess the impact of disruption Management System to our business objectives, the probability of this occurring and highlight The SMS sets out policy standards, systems and processes that identify, critical areas that require management attention.
review and report risks at all levels of our business, and in the Group as a whole, that impact upon strategic objectives, with the aim of safeguarding Risk planning and control our shareholders investments, our assets and our reputation.
At each We assign each identied and assessed risk to a risk owner who is level within our business, risk management processes reect the nature responsible for controlling, managing, and developing a robust and of the activities being undertaken and the business and operational risks effective plan to reduce or mitigate the risk.
Risk owners are required inherent in them, and therefore the level of control considered necessary to report to the GRMSC or, as appropriate, the Board on specic risks.
to protect our interests and those of our stakeholders.
Either may ask for additional information or request an audit to provide additional assurance.
These controls and processes fall into four main areas: Identication, Assessment, Planning and Control and Monitoring, so that we: Risk reduction involves taking early management action to remove or reduce identied risks before they can affect the bid, programme, O Identify business objectives that reect the interests of all stakeholders project or contract.
We consider options to eliminate, reduce or control and the risks associated with the achievement of these objectives the risks as part of the risk identication and analysis process.
O Regularly assess our exposure to risk, including through the regular Risk mitigation involves us identifying appropriate measures, including measurement of key risk indicators contingency plans, to reduce the severity of the impact of the risks, should they occur.
This includes developing crisis management plans O Control and reduce risk as far as reasonably practicable or achievable in response to risks whose potential impact warrants a specic through cost-effective risk treatment options, and management process.
O Identify new risks as they arise and remove those risks that are no The SMS requires every contract to develop a risk management plan longer relevant.
reecting assessed risks and supported by appropriate measures and contingency plans to mitigate the impact of the risks.
78 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Risk monitoring O The Chief Information officer is responsible for ensuring that systems Changes in our external environment, internal structures and management and processes are in place to ensure the condentiality, integrity and decisions may all affect the nature and extent of the risks to which the availability of sensitive information and the associated information Group is exposed.
systems that support our business activities Our risk monitoring process therefore regularly monitors changes to O Our Investment and Ethics Committee has responsibility for the review our business and the external environment, to ensure that we have sight of ethical issues that may arise from our current and future activities of and respond appropriately to reduce the impact of emerging risks.
O The Company Secretary manages a condential reporting service, Managing and mitigating risk to which staff can report illegal, dangerous, dishonest or unethical Our risk management process enables us to understand our operational activities.
This process was enhanced and re-launched at the end risk prole.
Operational risk can never be eliminated: risks are necessary of 2010 to achieve targeted benets risk management informs decisions.
However, while risk is necessary, we minimise the probability and impact O We have crisis and business continuity plans in place to manage of threats through the consistent implementation of the SMS, ensuring crisis events, both within Divisions and the Group that appropriate infrastructure, controls, systems, staff and processes are in place.
O All Divisional CEOs are required to self certify their Divisions compliance to the SMS at half and end of year points, and Some of our key management and control techniques dened in the SMS are set out below: O As mandated by the SMS, throughout the business lifecycle of all our bids and contracts independent reviews such as Black Hats O Our operating processes fully reect the principles of clear delegation and Gate Reviews are required to provide a minimum standard of authority and segregation of duties of assurance and governance across the business.
O Our GRMSC meets quarterly to ensure that risks, internal control Independent risk function and business assurance are effectively managed and reviewed While line managers are responsible for identifying and managing all risks within their risk appetite and tolerance limits, in line with the policies and O Comprehensive business review processes ensure we meet customer standards set within the SMS, the Group Risk and Programmes team expectations, regulatory requirements and performance criteria, reporting to the Group Director, Risk and Acquisitions is responsible for including operational effectiveness, investment returns, cash ow the development and implementation of risk management policy, strategy requirements and profitability and governance.
In addition to this the team manages the Group risk prole and provides risk management oversight, assurance and challenge O We monitor and regularly review key performance indicators.
These include analysis of business performance and variances from plan, occupational health and safety incidents, and error Internal audit and exception reporting An integral part of risk management is assurance that the controls identied to manage risks are operating and effective.
Internal audit is O Selective recruitment, succession planning and other human resource responsible for reviewing the design and operation of risk management policies and practices ensure that staff skills are aligned with Sercos processes and controls operated across the Group, providing objective current and future needs assurance around the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
O We maintain insurance policies against losses arising from circumstances such as damage or destruction of physical assets, The Group Head of Internal Audit is responsible for delivery of the internal theft, legal liability for third-party loss and professional advice.
audit programme, ensuring that it is risk based and aligned with the We review the adequacy of our insurance cover at regular intervals overall strategy of the Group.
Internal audit is delivered at Group and Divisional levels, using a mix of outsourced and in-house resources, O Our Investment and Ethics Committee meets regularly to ensure with each Division holding an Audit and Risk Committee which reviews appropriate governance and the management of risk associated the results of relevant internal audits three times a year.
The findings with larger or higher risk bids, acquisitions, disposals and areas of the overall internal audit programme are reported directly to the Group of significant capital expenditure Audit Committee.
O We apply robust project management and change implementation In addition to internal audit, many parts of our business are subject disciplines to all major projects including new contract transitions, to other reviews of their controls by third parties, including industry acquisitions, new technology applications, change programmes regulators, ISO Standards, customers and other external audits.
and other major initiatives This third-party scrutiny signicantly increases the scope of independent assurance conducted across the Group each year.
O The Directors Report describes our approach to health, safety and environmental protection.
4ualied and experienced staff in each The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary are being business unit provide advice and support on health, safety and taken to remedy the failings and weaknesses which it has determined environmental issues and undertake regular audits to be significant from its review of the internal controls across the Group.
The Board confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses O We have safety specialists in our aviation, rail, defence, nuclear and in financial reporting as part of the review of the internal control system.
marine businesses that report to the Board, and maintain and further develop the very high standards expected in these industries Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 79 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks We also have material investments in a number of joint ventures, where The Group Risk Register identies the principal risks facing the business we have joint control over management practices.
Our representatives as a whole, including those that are managed directly at Group level.
within these companies ensure that their processes and procedures for They are managed through a formal process.
identifying and managing risk are appropriate and that internal controls exist and are regularly monitored.
The Groups key stakeholders include, but are not limited to, shareholders, customers, suppliers, staff, trade unions, government, We keep reputational and emerging risks under active review and inform regulators, banks and insurers.
The way we operate as a responsible the Board of changes.
Emerging risks cover longer-term risks that could company recognises the interests of the community in areas such as represent a threat to our activities but which are not yet sufciently dened social, environmental and ethical impact, as described under Corporate to be included as active risks.
The most significant risks relate to our reputation, and to operational and financial performance, which are all direct threats to the achievement of our strategic objectives.
Summarised on the following pages are the key risks we have identied that could have a material impact on our reputation, our operations or our financial performance.
A number of our other risks reect social and ethical issues.
Group risks and mitigating actions overview Market risks Risk | significant change in political environment e. g. government policies, expenditure levels and budgetary constraints Description Impact Mitigation As a major proportion of Sercos customers are governments and governmental O Reduction in market opportunities O Business strategy agencies, a substantial part of the business is dependent on government policies, O Changes to terms of existing or O Diverse business across budget priorities and regulatory or political constraints.
In particular those new contracts geographies and markets regarding maintaining and improving public infrastructure, which could have a O Failure to meet growth or O Dedicated teams regularly monitor significant impact on the size, scope, timing and duration of contracts and orders profit expectations the political landscape and under them and therefore on the level of business that we may win.
As such, government activities, reporting these businesses are susceptible to changes in government, government policy, on government policy changes budget allocations and the political environment, primarily in the UK, Australia and the political environments and the US.
Any reduction in such government expenditure and funding could where we are operating.
result in a suspension, cancellation, termination or non-renewal of contracts.
We continue to develop expertise Revenues may also be adversely affected by changes to the UK governments, and capability in new markets US governments or Australian governments policy in respect of outsourcing.
and geographies Risk | Failure to win a strategic or significant bid or rebid Description Impact Mitigation Failure to win material bids or renew material contracts could restrict growth O Failure to meet growth or O Business Lifecycle governance opportunities for the future or have an adverse impact on Sercos business, profit expectations process embedded in SMS financial condition and results of operations.
Further, a significant number of O significant financial loss or O Governance structure managed Sercos contracts with the UK government, the US government and other public cost overrun through Investment and Ethics sector customers, including renewals and extensions of previous contracts, O Negative reputational impact, Committee, Programme and are awarded through formal competitive bidding processes.
Competitive bidding potentially resulting in loss of existing Project Boards, Divisional and processes present a number of risks, including substantial cost and management or new business Contract Boards time and effort to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be won.
O Impact on strategic objectives O Business strategy and targets In addition, there is often a long period between a successful competition tender managed through internal boards offer and entering into denitive contractual documentation and financial close, O Regular review and monitoring and in some cases financial close may not occur.
of Risk Registers O Gate reviews of bids and formal sign-off process O Robust bidding and contract review process including financial, technical and commercial reviews 80 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Operational risks Risk | Any harm to the Groups reputation could adversely impact business Description Impact Mitigation The Group is dependent on maintaining its reputation in each jurisdiction in which O Failure to meet growth or O Governance structure managed it operates in order to maintain and grow its business.
It is exposed to the risk profit expectations through Investment and Ethics that litigation, misconduct, operational failures and negative publicity could harm O significant financial loss or Committee, Programme and its reputation.
In addition, the Groups reputation could also be adversely affected cost overrun Project Boards, and Divisional if its services, or the services performed by its subcontractors, do not perform as O Loss of contract revenue related and Contract Boards expected.
Any harm to its reputation could have a material adverse effect on its to operations and service charges O An effective risk, issues and business, financial condition and results of operations.
O Could impact share price controls structure identies O Inability to attract the human and potential reputational impacts financial capital necessary to grow allowing effective management or expand into new markets and oversight O Damage to reputation resulting in O Customer engagement and loss of existing or new business employee engagement strategies O Impact on strategic objectives O Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders Risk | Failure of significant programmes, including operating within agreed xed costs Description Impact Mitigation Serco has a number of complex programmes which it is contracted to deliver for O Failure to meet growth or O Robust bidding and contract the customer.
These are often let on a xed price basis irrespective of the actual profit expectations review process including financial, costs incurred, and therefore if costs exceed the contract ceiling the Group O significant financial loss or technical and commercial reviews may not be able to obtain full reimbursement.
Further, some programmes require cost overrun O Governance structure managed delivery in accordance with specified milestones on agreed dates.
significant O Loss of contract revenue related through Investment and Ethics adverse financial consequences can be imposed where milestones are not met to operations and service charges Committee, Programme and or a programme is not delivered on time.
The length and complexity of such O Damage to client relations and wider Project Boards, and Divisional programmes mean that management estimates can be particularly difficult to reputation resulting in loss of existing and Contract Boards make and could turn out to be inaccurate.
or new business O Robust cost accounting O Impact on strategic objectives O Business strategy and targets O Regular review and monitoring of Risk Registers O Gate reviews and formal sign-off process O Quality management systems Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 81 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties Operational risks continued Risk | Major accident or incident Description Impact Mitigation It is possible that a major catastrophic event, such as a major train derailment O Deaths or serious injuries to O Robust management systems or air trafc accident, could occur at one of the projects in relation to which Serco employees or third parties subject to external and regulatory has provided professional design, construction, engineering or support services.
O Major environmental damage scrutiny and oversight Such a catastrophic event could result in the personal injury or death of one O Severe financial impact ne O System certication and or more employees of the Group, employees of other subcontractors working by regulators, suspension of regulatory approval on the project or members of the public, significant, actionable environmental operating licence, compensation, O Formal oversight through GRMSC, harm, and or extensive damage to third-party property.
In the event that such clean up, etc.
Health, Safety and Environment a catastrophic event is found or perceived to be caused by the negligence of O Loss of business disqualification Oversight Group, Divisional and Serco, it could subject the Group to claims for personal injury, wrongful death, from future tenders, contract internal boards or property damage by customers, subcontractors, governments, employees or termination, etc.
O Crisis management and business members of the public, which could lead to the payment of extensive damages O Contract and business external continuity plans in place and result in significant adverse publicity and reputational harm.
Such adverse accreditations withdrawn O Insurance publicity and reputational harm could lead to a loss of business.
O significant media attention and O A clear and comprehensive HSSE future scrutiny Strategy including annual and long O Criminal and civil action against term objectives, regularly reported the Group or individuals and governed, drives a proactive safety management culture across the business O Formal assurance structure operating within dened competencies O Staff induction and training O Effective Quality Management Systems embedded within the business Risk | Major information security loss or breach Description Impact Mitigation Serco must comply with restrictions on the handling of sensitive information O Loss of service to our customers O Security and information systems including personal and customer and provide for secure transmission of such O Damage to reputation resulting policies, systems and embedded information.
This is a heightened risk, particularly with respect to government in loss of existing or new business governance structure contracts, due to the sensitive and condential nature of government data.
disqualification from future tenders, O Think Privacy campaign to raise Despite controls to ensure the condentiality of such information, Serco may contract termination, etc.
staff awareness, provide training, breach restrictions or be subject to cyber attacks e. g. from computer programs O Impact on strategic objectives promote incident reporting and or hacktivist groups that may attempt to penetrate its network security and O Costly to rectify and potential for strengthen control processes misappropriate condential information.
dilution of shareholder returns O Cyber Security Contract O Criminal and civil action Risk Assessments O Contract and business external O Cyber Resilience of accreditations withdrawn Enterprise Applications O significant media attention and O User Management, Multifactor future scrutiny Authentication, User Awareness O Regular risk reviews O ISO 27000 certication 82 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Operational risks continued Risk | Major IT failure or prolonged loss of critical IT systems Description Impact Mitigation The IT Strategy is focused on standardising common processes, establishing O Damage to reputation resulting O Information systems policy, common business systems and enabling ways of working by providing and in loss of existing or new business systems and embedded embedding tools that support what we do.
Within this the Group has dened O Impact on strategic objectives governance structure enterprise applications.
These are key information technology-based business O Inability to meet contract O Data recovery capability systems within Serco.
They include SAP for Finance, Procurement and Human requirements or perform core designed into systems and Resources, Payroll, Risk Management, Safety Assurance, email, intranet and business processes periodically tested Nimbus Control for Process Excellence systems.
Therefore failings in the systems O Cost incurred to rectify and potential O Design out single points of failure have the potential to seriously impact the management of the business.
for dilution of shareholder returns O Server and system performance O significant media attention and monitoring and reporting future scrutiny O Capacity management O Data back-up and business continuity plans in place Governance risks Risk | significant incident of bribery or corrupt practice Description Impact Mitigation Serco operates in international markets which brings with it inherent risks O Legal action and fines against O Policies and systems including bribery and corruption, particularly in certain developing nations.
the Group embedded in SMS Serco operates in a number of countries which are recognised as having a O Debarment from tender lists O Code of Conduct higher bribery and corruption risk.
Increasing legislation signicantly increases O Damage to reputation resulting O Ethics Committee the consequences of bribes and other corrupt practices.
in loss of existing or new business O Speak Up process O significant media attention and O Ethics and compliance future scrutiny programme and training O Risk assessment O Third-party contracts People risks Risk | Failure to build depth & capability of leaders Fit for Future Description Impact Mitigation The success of the Group depends on the efforts, abilities, experience O Risk of not achieving level O People policies and systems, and expertise of the senior management teams and on recruiting, retaining, of planned growth strategy and targets supported motivating, effectively communicating with and developing highly skilled O Increased cost in recruitment by governance structure, including and competent people at all levels of the organisation.
There can be intense activity and time taken to ll roles Remuneration Committee competition for personnel from other companies and organisations and there O Instability and loss of O Succession planning may at any time be shortages in the availability of appropriately skilled people business continuity O Leadership model at all levels within Serco.
Further, the Group cannot guarantee the retention O Dilution of brand and values O Annual external independent of such key executives and technical personnel.
The failure of the Group O Reduced employee engagement remuneration review to retain and or recruit additional or substitute senior managers and or other through loss of compelling leadership O Job structure and grading system key employees could have a material adverse effect on its business.
O Strengthen competitors loss of O Talent database and leadership leaders to them development programme O Employment engagement strategy, including annual staff survey Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 83 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Principal risks and uncertainties Finance risks Risk | The impairment of goodwill could adversely impact reported results Description Impact Mitigation Goodwill accounts for just over one-third of Serco Groups recorded total assets O Inability to meet profit expectations O Internal board and as at 31 December 2012.
Serco evaluates goodwill for impairment annually O Breach of financial covenants governance structure or more frequently when evidence of potential impairment exists.
Any decrease O Damage to reputation and O Strategic plans in expected cash ows or deterioration in market conditions could require Serco shareholder confidence O Business plans to record impairment charges that could have a material impact on the financial O Impact on strategic objectives O Business Lifecycle position and results of operations.
Governance process O Financial review and reporting Risk | Negative uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that are not effectively hedged Description Impact Mitigation The international nature of Sercos business means it is exposed to uctuations O Material effect on the Groups O The Group hedges short-term in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to various currencies, primarily future results of operations and transaction risks that are material the US Dollar, the Australian Dollar and the Euro, arising from the translation financial position in value of earnings.
In addition, some of Sercos bank debt is denominated in currencies O Management of translational risk other than pound Sterling.
by the part currency matching of borrowings with the net assets of overseas subsidiaries Risk | Negative uctuations in interest rates Description Impact Mitigation Historically, Serco has nanced its operations partly through draw down of O Inability to meet profit expectations O Fixed rate debt instruments and funding facilities.
Adverse movements in interest rates could therefore impact and associated impact on net assets interest rate derivatives that swap profitability and net assets.
O Impact on competitiveness oating for xed rates 84 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Report Introduction In managing the affairs of the Group, the Board of Serco Group plc is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all its activities around the world.
A fundamental part of the Groups corporate governance is the Business Conduct and Ethics Standard that the Group has adopted.
Throughout 2012 Serco Group plc complied fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code with the exception of membership of the Audit Committee as explained on page 88 below.
The paragraphs below, together with the Our performance section on pages 18 to 84 and the Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 114, provide details as to how the Company has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
The Board of Directors Board composition Currently the Board has seven members: the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Malcolm Wyman was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2013.
Leonard V. Broese van Groenou served on the Board during 2012 until his retirement on 14 May 2012.
David Richardson will be retiring from the Board at the end of the Companys Annual General Meeting, being held on 15 May 2013 and hence will not stand for re-election.
As announced on 6 December 2012, Malcolm Wyman will succeed David as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Malcolm will also succeed David as Senior Independent Director.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making.
The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
In coming to this conclusion the Board has determined that each Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgements.
Each Director brings a valuable range of experience and expertise to the Board.
The proles of all Directors can be found on pages 96 and 97.
Diversity With reference to the report by Lord Davies of Abersoch entitled Women on Boards, Serco strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity, of which gender is one, but not the only, key aspect.
Diversity of thought, experience, and approach are all important and we will always seek to appoint on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
The Board aims to achieve an appropriate diversity across all elements of Sercos management.
As, over time, we recruit new members we would, therefore, expect to address the issue of diversity in general, and to increase the proportion currently 14% that women constitute of our plc Board.
The role of the Board The Board has responsibility for the overall management and performance of the Group, the approval of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy and for ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken promptly.
Reporting to the Board, the Governance function is tasked by the Group to develop and oversee corporate processes for the identication and management of business risks and the appropriate application of the Serco Management System SMS and corporate responsibility activities throughout the Group.
The Our performance section on pages 18 to 84 details the internal control and risk policies, procedures and management framework adopted by the Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Report is available online at www.
com cr2012 and illustrates how Sercos approach to corporate assurance and responsibility translates from the Board into everyday working practices.
Conicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association, as approved by shareholders at the Companys 2010 annual general meeting, include provisions reecting recommended practice concerning conicts of interest.
The Board has in place procedures for Directors to report any potential or actual conicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
In deciding whether to authorise a conict or potential conict of interest only non-interested Directors i. e. those that have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision: in taking such a decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors may impose conditions or limitations when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The process of reviewing conicts disclosed, and authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
Any conicts or potential conicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of directors conicts which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 85 Financial Governance statements
