Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Risk management Key risks are reported to the Audit Our approach to risk How does our ERM process work Committee and to the board every six Overall we take a considered approach to inpractice?
months in the form of risk maps.
Across the group, individual risks and Our sewerage network consists of decisions are managed in line with our In addition, individual risks or specic risk thousands of miles of sewers carrying Group Authorisation Arrangements topics are also discussed by the board waste water to our treatment plants.
which set out clear limits for delegated during the year.
This year we have paid There is a risk that these sewers could authority.
particular attention to low likelihood, high collapse or become blocked resulting impact risks, with the board requesting Within the largest part of our group, inooding of our customers homes additional assurance that controls Severn Trent Water, our approach reects orpollution of the environment.
around such risks are robust.
We have our status as a regulated utility providing We recognise that sewer ooding also introduced regular risk deep dives essential services and operating as part ofproperty is very distressing for at our Severn Trent executive team of the Critical National Infrastructure for customers affected and we aim meetings.
These take the form of the UK.
The nature of our Severn Trent tominimise the possibility of this updates from individual business teams Water business is such that there are happening.
Similarly, pollution of within Severn Trent Water on their some significant inherent risks as watercourses has an adverse effect on progress with improving controls and illustrated in the following paragraph on the environment and enjoyment of the providing effective mitigation for their Principal Risks.
We aim to have a strong amenities in the communities we serve.
control framework in place to enable us Both types of incident incur additional to understand our risks and manage For the preparation of our annual costs to the company in rectifying them effectively.
business plan for Severn Trent Water we suchincidents.
have introduced an explicit link between Although the Severn Trent Services Our risk assessment was primarily set the ERM and business planning processes businesses are not generally regulated, around the Ofwat requirement to in order that we can have greater we provide products and services for supply assets capable of delivering an confidence that business plans customers who operate in regulated agreed level of service to our customers sufciently address areas of key risk.
environments, and as a result we take and the environment.
We further asimilarly considered approach to risk.
Principal risks analysed our risks to introduce Our Enterprise Risk There are a number of significant risks morespecic risks based around which are inherent to all water and ManagementProcess infrastructure below ground assets sewerage companies, as shown on our and non infrastructure above ground Our now established Enterprise Risk business models on pages 10 and 11 assets within our ERM process to help Management ERM process which is and 24 and 25, including: to generate clarity on causes and used across the group, identies possible controls of failure.
From this we were risks, their causes and their potential Severn Trent Water operates in a able to develop further improvement impacts.
This allows us to place focus on heavily regulated environment and actions to ensure risks are having the right controls in place to issubject to many varied, complex constructively managed to deliver the manage our risks by considering both andchanging obligations.
In order to mitigate how to minimise the likelihood of risks we face risks associated with the risk we have enhanced our occurring and how to maximise our non-compliance: programme of investment to maintain resilience to risks.
In addition to assessing Severn Trent Water has an extensive our sewerage network to reduce sewer financial impact, our assessment of risks network of assets and the failure of key blockages, collapses and sewer includes explicit consideration of the individual or collections of these assets oodingincidents.
possible effect on the reputation of could result in a significant impact on thegroup.
our core business activities: We have also embarked on an we face risks to the health, safety and  Improvement wellbeing of our people, customers, Programme which considers all aspects contractors and others as a result of of our processes and how these can be the nature of our operations: and improved to minimise our impact on we share a concern with many other the environment.
Reducing these businesses over our ability to fund long incidents is good for customers, good term pension promises.
for the environment and good for thecompany.
Where appropriate these are included inthe table of Principal Risks overleaf.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38 Risk management Ref What is the risk?
Which part of What does it mean for us?
What are we doing to manage the risk?
Business Model Risks 1 We may not be able Severn Trent Current performance against plan We have robust business planning to achieve all of the Water does not indicate particular cause for processes.
Our business plans are challenging targets concern.
However, if we are unable to updated and reviewed on an annual agreed withOfwat meet all of the targets and regulatory basis.
Wemonitorprogress against for our business plan outputs agreed in our business plan agreed targets each month and are from 2010 to 2015 within the constraints assumed in the abletomake adjustments to planned resulting in reduction plan, thefollowing may occur: activitiesifwe identify any concerns.
we may require additional funding or experience reduced profit during this five year planning period: financial penalties may be imposed by Ofwat during the AMP6 period 20152020: or our share price may be affected if we are unable to deliver the financial and performance targets we have shared with investors.
2 We may be unable to Severn Trent Our current customer service We have programmes of work underway sufciently improve Water performance is disappointing, and we across Severn Trent Water tomake the our performance in have programmes of work underway necessary improvements inour relation to customer to address the root causes of the processes and technology to service in order to issues highlighted.
We recognise, enableSevern Trent Water to deliver deliver what our however, that failure to address these outstandingcustomer service.
customers tell us issues may result in customer they want.
dissatisfaction and as a result we may fail to gain customer support for our plans for the next price review period AMP6 between 20152020.
Atpresent, we believe we can achievethe necessary improvements in our performance.
3 We may suffer Severn Trent Failure of certain key assets may We monitor the performance of our operational failure Water result in process failure, leading to treatment works and the efuent we inour waste water environmental damage.
This is a areproducing to within strict limits.
operations which particular concern in relation to our Where we are unable to prevent results in damage waste water treatment processes.
pollutions, we clean up polluted waters tothe local Forexample, failure of our key assets as quickly as possible and put in place environment.
may render our treatment less measures to prevent recurrence.
Wehave introduced an Environmental Improvement Programme which includes regular audits of our sites andwe continue to work to improve ourenvironmental performance.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Risk management Ref What is the risk?
Business Model Risks continued 4 Our assets or Group wide The nature of our work requires our We have risk and safety action teams processes may fail employees and contractors to atsite level who identify local hazards resulting in injury undertake activities or to use and how these can be mitigated.
Safety toan employee, equipment which have potential to performance is monitored and weare contractor, customer cause serious harm.
Whilst we seek delivering year on year improvement.
or member of to take precautions to prevent Wherever hazardous workis to be thepublic.
injury, asset failure or failure to undertaken or hazardous chemicals are followagreed processes may used, we undertake thoroughtraining, resultinsomeone being hurt.
which is kept up to date, to minimise Specicexamples include injury to therisk.
our employees using chemicals in Our assets are subject to regular ourprocesses.
Additionally, failure andrigorous monitoring including ofone of our key assets such as a independent inspections of our reservoirs reservoir could result in injury to to ensure that they remain safe and customers or members of the public.
thatmaintenance work is undertaken where needed.
5 We may fail to meet Severn Trent If we are unable to meet operational We continue to monitor and invest in all of our regulatory Water performance targets, we may be ourassets and to improve our processes targets, including subjected to significant regulatory in order to maintain the performance targets from Ofwat, penalties.
We have programmes in relation to of work ongoing to review all aspects of Regulatory targets apply toall of ongoingoperational our operations, including the necessary ourwater treatment, distribution, performance of improvements to maintain continuous sewerage and sewage treatment ourassets resulting in supplies, ensure water quality, reduce assets.
Measures are in place in regulatory penalties.
sewer collapses and sewer ooding and relation to water quality, continuous improve environmental performance.
supplies, sewer ooding, sewer collapses and pollution events.
6 Failure of certain key Severn Trent Some of our assets are not We have asset management plans in assets may result in Water duplicated, and whilst every effort is place which drive investment in inability to provide a made to maintain the assets, failure maintenance and improvement of our continuous supply of may occur which could result in assets in order to maintain our service quality water to large temporary inability to continue to tocustomers.
populations within serve our customers.
We also have security measures to our area, or in protect our assets and contingency damage to third plansto maintain supplies in the event party property.
Legal and Regulatory Risks 7 We may be unable to Severn Trent The major part of our business, We will continue to work with: effectively anticipate Water Severn Trent Water, operates in a peers across the water industry: and or inuence highly regulated environment.
UK Government departments: future developments Our document Changing Course sets Ofwat and other regulators: and in the UK water out the key changes we believe are other agencies industry resulting necessary to ensure a sustainable to ensure we keep abreast of policy inour business future for the water industry in developments and inuence the plansbecoming England and Wales.
Although some futuredirection of regulatory policy unsustainable.
of our points are reected in the UK where possible.
Government Water White Paper issued in December 2011, future changes in legislation could have a significant impact on Severn Trent.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 40 Risk management Ref What is the risk?
Legal and Regulatory Risks continued 8 The regulatory Group wide Our policies and processes must We have policies, standards, procedures landscape is complex reect the current legal and and relevant training for employees to and subject to regulatory environment and all mitigate this risk.
relevant employees need to be kept During this year, we have refreshed our There is a risk that aware of new requirements.
Due to Code of Conduct and group policies and processes may fail or the spread of our operations, and are carrying out an extensive programme that our processes changes in activity and organisational to raise awareness of the updated Code may not effectively structure this is not always of Conduct and policies.
The group as changes in legislation awhole may face censure for leading to the risk of non-compliance in an individual non-compliance.
group company or a specic region inwhich we operate.
Financial Risks 9 The current crisis Group wide As a result of current market and We ensure we maintain access to funds inthe Eurozone economic conditions across the through cash held on short term deposit mayincrease the Eurozone, there may be increased and through our committed borrowing difficulties associated difficulty for all businesses to obtain facilities.
We constantly monitor the with obtaining funds.
We may therefore beunable possible impacts of economic conditions funding for the group to meet all of our funding on the funding requirements for the at similar rates to requirements at commercially group.
We have diversied sources those assumed in our attractive rates.
offunding and have a timetable for business plan.
replacement of committed lending facilities which allows us more than one opportunity to go to market in order to mitigate against short term problems in the marketplace.
10 Changing Group wide We already provide significant We regularly revalue our schemes and demographics and funding.
We may be called upon to monitor our investment performance.
uctuations in the provide more money to reduce We are introducing new pensions investment market deficits in our pension schemes.
arrangements which we believe will be may affect our ability Although the risk is not considered fairer for all our employees as well as to fund pensions likely to occur, the impact could be reducing the build up of further deficit promises sustainably.
inour schemes in future years, thus allowing us to continue to fund pensions sustainably into the future.
11 Counterparties with Group wide We may have cash which we have We have strict policies which restrict the whom we have not yet invested in agreed capital counterparties we can invest with and invested money programmes, and we need limit the amount which can be invested mayfail, putting our tomanage this in the most with individual counterparties.
We closely investment at risk.
advantageous way for our customers monitor the credit status of all our and shareholders.
There is a risk that counterparties to ensure we only deposit we may deposit cash with third with those who have good credit status.
parties who may default resulting in Compliance with our policies is monitored financial loss.
continuously to mitigate this risk.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Governance 42 Board of directors 44 Executive Committee 45 Chairmans letter 50 Nominations Committee 52 Audit Committee 54 Corporate Responsibility Committee 55 Remuneration Committee 69 Directors report 73 Directors responsibility statement
