Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5LVNV DQG XQFHUWDLQWLHV Risk management framework Shanks Groups approach to risk management is governed by its risk management framework.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and has established a continuous process in relation to the identication, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Group, in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Thisprocess has been in place for the financial year ended March 2012 and to the date of approval of this report and is in accordance with theTurnbull guidance.
The main elements of the risk A requirement that an enhanced risk management process are as follows: assessment is completed for all major 2EMHFWLYHV capital requests.
The risk template The schedule of matters reserved covers financial and commercial forthe Board, and its adherence, 7KH REMHFWLYHV RI WKH ULVN assumptions, reputational risk plus ensures that all significant factors additional business-specic risks to PDQDJHPHQW IUDPHZRUN affecting Group strategy, structure ensure all threats to achieving the and nancing are properly managed DUH DV IROORZV stated returns are fully considered by the directors.
before any investment is made.
The Group risk management Manage risk to a level acceptable The top risks in each country are framework ensures that each business tothe Group Board discussed at the monthly country annually assesses the risks it faces review meetings to help monitor risk and its monitoring and control of those Maximise the achievement of our mitigation actions.
The output of this process is a business objectives by managing summary of all significant strategic, As well as being embedded in the major ourrisks and opportunities across operational, financial and compliance decision-making processes involved the Group risks, mitigating controls and the action indelivering the Groups strategy, plans necessary to reduce risks to a specically in relation to investment Make sure that the fundamentals level deemed appropriate by the Board.
projects and infrastructure development These arereviewed by both country and acquisitions, risk management ofgood risk management are management and the Board to isalso embedded in the day-to-day incorporated into decision-making ensurethe appropriateness of the management of operations including atall levels ensuring better risks identied and the controls health, safety and environmental anticipation of opportunities to andaction plans reported.
compliance where there is regular alleviate potential losses and monitoring, auditing and reporting of Embedding risk management procedures and controls.
More details maximise potential gains and early processes into the day-to-day running regarding the KPIs in these areas are of the business is important if it is to be warning of significant problems setout onpages 38 to 41. effective.
The following requirements givento senior management help ensure the effectiveness of the risk Further information on the Boards management framework: assessment of the effectiveness of internal control can be found on page 73 Involvement of an increasing number of managers across the Group in assessing risks and producing the riskregister in each country.
Duringthe year a Risk Committee was established, reporting to the Group Executive Committee, to revitalise this process by ensuring more effective input by operational managers.
5LVNV DQG XQFHUWDLQWLHV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5LVN PDQDJHPHQW IRFXV GXULQJ WKH HDU 5LVN PDQDJHPHQW UHVSRQVLELOLWLHV The main focus during the year has been the continued quest to ensure that risk management 6KDQNV URXS SOF %RDUG is rmly embedded into the day-to-day running &RQVROLGDWLRQ UHYLHZ DQG of the business.
QGHSHQGHQW UHSRUWLQJ UHYLHZ The establishment of a Risk Committee is aimed $XGLW &RPPLWWHH at providing a better link between Group andthe operating companies, will afford a better risk focus URXS 5LVN $XGLW 5HYLHZ at the local level and help ensure that more operational managers have an input to the risk DFLOLWDWLRQ 2SHUDWLQJ 'LYLVLRQV ULVN EDVHG DXGLW identication and mitigation process.
This process has been instrumental in the identication of new 5LVN 5LVN &RPPLWWHH DVVHVVPHQW risks facing the Group, asdetailed below.
Ensuring that risk management is rmly %XVLQHVV 8QLW 0DQDJHPHQW embedded in the capital allocation process was DFLOLWDWLRQ ULVN PRQLWRULQJ the reason behind the introduction ofa more DQG UHSRUWLQJ rigorous investment authorisation process.
&KDQJHV WR WKH ULVN SURILOH RZ ZH VHH RXU SULQFLSDO ULVNV Three new major risks have been identied thisyear: Plant availability and insurance Given inationary risk and the increasing number ofcapital-intensive activities as a result of theongoing investment programme, plant availability and insurance is recognised asanemerging risk to the Group.
Fuel pricing Alsotreated as a growing risk isenergy consumption which reects the ongoing price ination of all forms ofenergy used across the Group.
Succession planning Effective succession planning and the continued ability to retain andreplace key senior managers is also recognised for the first time.
There are controls and processes in place to adequately mitigate these new risks.
These are Low Medium High explained more fully on pages 46 and 47.
Likelihood of risk occurring Product quality, listed last year, is no longer included as a key risk due to management Longer term risks 1.
Project management actions effectively mitigating this risk with 2.
Succession planning Shorter term risks product quality being consistently monitored.
Fuel pricing As the importance of long-term contracts to 5.
SHE safety, health, environmental theGroup increases in the form of PFI and PPP initiatives so it is expected that the potential impact on the business in terms of risk naturally increases also.
The existing procedures effectively mitigate this increasing risk.
With increasing amounts of capital investment scheduled it is to be expected that the risks associated withthe management of these projects will also rise in monetary terms.
It is for this reason that the enhanced capital authorisation process has been implemented and an updated post-investment review programme will be rolled out in the coming year.
Financial risk has increased due to the instability of the Euro.
Impact on business Low Medium High
