Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5LVNV DQG XQFHUWDLQWLHV Principal risks and uncertainties 6WUDWHJLF SULRULWLHV [WHUQDO GULYHUV Invest in new sustainable opportunities that build on $ Macro market drivers our core capabilities and generate attractive returns Deliver outstanding operational performance % Regulatory and legislative fromexisting businesses and investments Develop world-class capabilities and technologies & Economic pressures and limited capital in a cohesive Group culture Actively manage Shanks portfolio and use bolt-on acquisitions to accelerate profitable growth 6WUDWHJLF SULRULWLHV [WHUQDO GULYHUV 5LVN LPSDFW 2XU UHVSRQVH 3URJUHVVLRQ 1 Waste volumes & The inability to attract sufficient waste Regular reporting and monitoring of No change due volumes due to external economic factors volumes both at local and Board level tothe continuing including over capacity of incineration in the through the use of performance measures.
macro-economic Netherlands, limiting the availability of waste environment.
by commercial and municipal customers.
Iffacilities are working at below full capacity, Innovative action taken to increase volumes there is the likelihood of increased unitcosts.
through the sourcing of new waste streams such as waste importation into the Netherlands and increasing presence in household waste markets in Belgium.
Reorganising the processing anddisposal of waste to optimise asset utilisation and reduce costs with a higher focus on energy production.
5LVNV DQG XQFHUWDLQWLHV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 6WUDWHJLF SULRULWLHV [WHUQDO GULYHUV 5LVN LPSDFW 2XU UHVSRQVH 3URJUHVVLRQ 2 Financial risks & The Group is exposed toboth interest rate Group Treasury is charged with managing Increased risk due risk and foreign exchange risk.
Adverse these risks in line with policies approved tothe instability movements in interest rates or foreign bytheBoard.
Interest rate risk is managed oftheEuro.
exchange will reduce profitability and or though the use of interest rate swaps, assetvalues.
seniornotes taken out at xed rates andbythe retail bond.
Interest rate and foreign exchange sensitivity is setout in note 20 to the Financial Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by Statements.
arranging borrowings to be drawn, asfaraspossible, in the same currencies asthe underlying investment toreduce nettranslation exposure.
Group strategy remains to leave income risk unhedged.
3 Market legislative drivers $ % Our business is driven by legislative and Corporate strategy aligned with EU waste No change from market drivers that signicantly affect our policy towards more sustainable waste last year.
wehave to understand and anticipate these Employment of waste professionals who changes or risk loss of market shareas a understand the underlying legislative consequence.
In the main, these changes landscape and the effects onthebusiness.
present an opportunity to drive the business forward through our positioning within the Membership of trade associations in all waste hierarchy.
However, a failure to properly geographic areas in which the business understand the likely changes or being unable operates that lobby at regional and national to develop new technologies could also result level in the interest ofthewaste industry.
in unanticipated cost increases or, in extreme Continuing search for new technologies cases, the write-off of investments.
and, increasingly, the sharing of that technology across the Group.
4 Long-term contracts $ & The Group enters into long-term contracts Selective bidding process.
Increased risk and with municipalities in the UK including PFI opportunity as the Detailed risk assessments for contracts, the Benelux countries and level of long-term allmajorcontracts.
Entering into unfavourable contracts contracts rise.
willpotentially subject theGroup to low Authorisation matrix requiringappropriate margins or contract losses for many years.
Of total revenue circa 30% relates to contracts of over two years duration andthis percentage has been improving over time.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5LVNV DQG XQFHUWDLQWLHV Principal risks and uncertainties 6WUDWHJLF SULRULWLHV [WHUQDO GULYHUV 5LVN LPSDFW 2XU UHVSRQVH 3URJUHVVLRQ 5 Price competition & Price competition both in terms of incoming Regular reporting and monitoring of price Continuing pricing levels both at local and Board level through pressure offset waste streams and the sales ofrecyclate material.
Thisis largely affected byexternal the use ofKPIs.
factors such asmacro-economic conditions, Use of long-term contracts where possible competition and commodity prices with the to minimise the effect ofpricing pressures.
risk of a fall in margins if prices are not maintained or costs kept under control.
Seeking creative alternative low-cost outlets for waste such as SRF to offset incoming waste price pressure.
Both the UK and theNetherlands export recycled material tothe Far East.
Cost saving initiatives to offset pricing pressures such as optimising sorting efficiencies and other cost saving projects.
A commitment to good customer relations and service through ongoing staff training and the useof customer relationship professionals.
6 Project management To meet our commitments relating to our The appointment of project management Increasing risk vision and strategy we are making significant professionals tooversee key projects.
asthe level of capital investments in our infrastructure.
investment Minimum hurdle rates set andmonitored.
Failure to bring in capital projects ontime increases.
andon budget willlead to an inability tomeet Large developments such as Wescott Park, contract terms and deliver business plan Kettering and EastLondon in the UK and returns.
In addition, there isalso the risk enhancements at ATM in theNetherlands thatcapital investments will not provide the are subject torigorous monitoring by necessary returns if the underlying assets are localmanagement.
not properly managed on a long-term basis.
A central project management ofce so thatthe progress of all significant projects is reported back to Group senior management and the Board.
An enhanced capital authorisation process has been implemented during the year.
7 Succession planning The resignation of the previous Chief Executive Appointment of an interim Group New risk.
and the successful search for his replacement HRDirector to oversee organisational have highlighted the continued need to be able design, talent management, hiring to retain and replace key staff in the future.
Permanent Group HR Director actively being sought.
Succession plans in place where appropriate.
5LVNV DQG XQFHUWDLQWLHV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 6WUDWHJLF SULRULWLHV [WHUQDO GULYHUV 5LVN LPSDFW 2XU UHVSRQVH 3URJUHVVLRQ 8 Plant availability and insurance The Group operates an increasing number of Active monitoring and enforcement in relation New risk.
Fire or other disaster, to maintenance, security, health and safety failure of a technical installation or severe and staff training standards.
weather could lead to the loss of availability Use of experienced insurance brokers.
Inadequate insurance cover due to Inaddition, a full review oflocations, ination or new facilities could result in the equipment and stock has been conducted inability to rebuild a plant without a fresh over the year in conjunction with the brokers capital injection.
Other developments during the year have included the upgrade of disaster recovery planning in the UK and the upgrading of business interruption insurance interms of duration of loss at UK AD plants.
In Belgium, there has been investment in new re detection and suppression systems at Mont-Saint Guibert, Villerot and Monceau while newprocedures have been implemented to ensure that waste is adequately segregated.
9 Fuel pricing & Continued increases indiesel and other fuel Hedging of diesel costs initiated at New risk.
prices have heightened awareness of energy Grouplevel.
Failure tocontrol the effects Fuel surcharges in place in theNetherlands ofpriceination or reduce consumption and the UK where possible.
In Belgium an willresult inreduced operating margins.
indexation mechanism is in place to pass increased costs on to municipal customers.
In Belgium, driver training piloted in Liege has reduced fuel consumption by 2% andwill be rolled out further during the coming year.
In the UK, intelligent cab-based systems arebeing tested to reduce fuel costs as well as reduce the risk of accidents.
10 SHE safety, health, environmental compliance % Shanks employees arethe Groups most Safety leadership scheme in place.
important and valuable asset and their health Amongst other initiatives this requires senior and safety areparamount.
executives to make regular health and safety visits to plants across the Group.
Operating sites require local licences, permits andother permissions tooperate and Health and safety is the top agenda item compliance with these is monitored by atall management meetings.
Monthly SHE reporting across alllevels Failure to comply with either health and safety ofthe organisation.
or environmental legislation could result in Employment of health and safety prosecution, loss of permits and site closure professionals.
as well as reputational damage.
Environmental management systems and action programmes including regular site inspections.
