Risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties.
Risk Management Internal Governance The Group has adopted a risk management Framework strategy designed to identify, assess and manage the significant risks that it faces.
While Board the Group aims to identify and manage such Established a risk governance framework risks, no risk management strategy can provide and ensures the ACR Committee has absolute assurance against loss.
the resources to fulll its role.
Mitigation of principal risks The management and mitigation of risks are a key focus for the The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Group.
The Group has established a Risk Council which is Monitors the effectiveness of the risk supported by the Global Compliance and Risk Management management process and the internal control GCRM Department to oversee the management and mitigation of the principal risks faced by the Group, as set out below.
Risk Council The Risk Council is charged with overseeing the Groups risk The Leadership Team LT management process and activities.
Chaired by the Chief Compliance and Risk officer, the Risk Councils membership Ensures that an effective risk management includes senior members of the Groups business units and process and a robust internal control structure corporate functions, in addition to the Head of Internal Audit.
business unit and corporate function is required to periodically review the significant risks facing their business or function, and are provided with a framework to use in their review.
This review, which occurs biannually, includes identifying operational risks, compliance Business Units & Corporate Functions risks and risks to the achievement of goals and objectives.
The Implement a risk management process Risk Council ensures that there is an owner who is responsible for and establish internal controls within their the management or mitigation of each identied risk.
Material risks and associated mitigation plans are recorded on a corporate risk respective organizations.
schedule for ongoing review and assessment by the Risk Council.
The risk schedule is also reviewed and validated by the Leadership Team.
In addition, the risk schedule is reviewed biannually by the Global Compliance & Audit, Compliance and Risk ACR Committee, and annually by Risk Management Risk Council the Board.
Facilitates and supports the enterprise risk management process.
Internal Audit & Other Assurance Functions Provides an independent assurance to the LT and ACR Committees that the risk management and internal control environment is operating effectively.
18 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Overview GCRM Q if the Companys products are subject to more stringent The Risk Council is assisted by the GCRM Department, which is government regulation than competitor products: responsible for supporting the development and implementation of Q loss of patent protection or other forms of exclusivity, or the practices that facilitate employees compliance with laws and ability of competitors to challenge or circumvent patents or other Company policy.
The GCRM Department provides assistance to forms of exclusivity See Note 18 Commitments and help employees meet high ethical standards and comply with contingencies : applicable laws and regulations.
Q if planned geographical expansion into new markets is not The principal focus of Shires compliance effort is to prevent and successful: detect misconduct or non-compliance with laws or regulations through the promotion of ethical behavior, policy development, Q if the sizes of the patient populations for the Companys products appropriate training, monitoring and audit.
Shire employees are are less than expected: or encouraged to seek help and to report suspected cases of Q if there are lawsuits led against the Company, including but not misconduct and to do so without fear of retaliation.
Employees can limited to, product liability claims, consumer law claims, and report suspected cases of misconduct to management or through payor or reimbursement litigation.
the condential reporting lines managed by the GCRM Department.
Concerns and allegations are fairly and independently investigated If the Company is unable to commercialize its products and appropriate disciplinary action is taken if warranted.
successfully, there may be a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of operations.
The GCRM Department is managed by the Chief Compliance and Risk officer, who reports directly to the CEO.
The Chief Revenues from ADDERALL XR are subject to generic erosion Compliance and Risk officer chairs the Risk Council and regularly During 2012 the FDA claried the regulatory pathway required for provides summary reports on the Risk Council and Compliance approval of generic versions of ADDERALL XR and in June 2012 activities to the ACR Committee.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Actavis received approval to launch its own generic version of officer has access at all times to the Chairman of the ACR ADDERALL XR.
Shire sells authorized generic versions of Committee which provides a mechanism for bypassing the ADDERALL XR to Teva and Impax and also continues to sell the executive management should the need ever arise.
branded version of ADDERALL XR.
Set out below are the Groups key risk factors that have been Revenues from ADDERALL XR have declined as a result of these identied through the Groups approach to risk management.
developments and could decline further if: Some of these risk factors are specic to the Group, and others are Q generic or authorized generic versions of ADDERALL XR capture more generally applicable to the pharmaceutical industry or specic more of Shires branded market share: markets in which the Group operates.
The Group considers that these risk factors apply equally and therefore all should be carefully Q the FDA approves additional ANDAs for generic versions of considered before any investment is made in Shire.
ADDERALL XR which could further reduce branded market share: Risk factors related to the Companys Q the production of ADDERALL XR is disrupted by difficulties in business obtaining a sufficient supply of amphetamine salts including, but The Companys products may not be a commercial success not limited to, an inability to obtain sufficient quota from the DEA: The commercial success of the Companys marketed products Q there are changes in reimbursement policies of third party and other new products that the Company may launch in the payors: or future, will depend on their approval and acceptance by physicians, patients and other key decision makers, as well as the receipt of Q there are changes to the level of sales deductions for ADDERALL marketing approvals in different countries and the time taken to XR for private or public payors.
obtain them, the scope of marketing approvals as reected in the The failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, or an products label, approval of reimbursement at commercially adequate level of reimbursement, by third party payors in a sustainable prices in those countries where price and reimbursement timely manner for the Companys products may impact future is negotiated, and safety, efcacy, convenience and costrevenues and earnings effectiveness of the product as compared to competitive products.
The Companys revenues are partly dependent on the level of The Companys revenues, financial condition or results of operations reimbursement provided to the Company by governmental may be adversely affected if any or all of the following occur: reimbursement schemes for its products.
Changes to governmental policy or practices could adversely affect the Q if the Companys products, or competitive products, are Companys revenues, financial condition and results of operations.
genericized: In addition, the reimbursement of treatments by health care Q if the prices of the Companys products suffer forced reductions providers, private health insurers and other organizations, such as or if prices of competitor products are reduced signicantly: health-maintenance organizations and managed care organizations is under downward pressure and this, in turn, could adversely Q if there are unanticipated adverse events experienced with the impact the prices at which the Company can sell its products.
Companys products or those of a competitors product not seen in clinical trials that impact the physicians willingness to The market for the Companys products could be signicantly prescribe the Companys products: inuenced by the following, which could result in lower prices for the Companys products and or a reduced demand for the Q if issues arise from clinical trials being conducted for post Companys products: marketing purposes or for registration in another country or if regulatory agencies in one country act in a way that raises Q higher levels of controls on the use of the Companys products concerns for regulatory agencies or for prescribers or patients in and or requirements for additional price concessions by another country: managed health care organizations or government authorities: Q if patients, payors or physicians favor other treatments over the Q legislative proposals to reform health care and government Companys products: insurance programs in many of the Companys markets: or Shire plc Annual Report 2012 19 Risks and uncertainties Q price controls, unsuccessful government tenders, or nonThe development, approval and manufacturing of the reimbursement of new medicines or new indications for Companys products is subject to extensive oversight by which the health economic i. e. cost benefit rationales are not various regulatory agencies well established.
Pharmaceutical and device manufacturing sites must be inspected and approved by regulatory agencies such as the FDA.
Active The cost of treatment for some of the Companys products is high, ingredients, excipients and packaging materials used in the in particular REPLAGAL, ELAPRASE and VPRIV which are used for manufacturing process must be obtained from sources approved the treatment of certain rare genetic diseases.
The Company may by regulatory agencies.
encounter difficulty in obtaining or maintaining satisfactory pricing and reimbursement for such products.
The failure to obtain and The development and approval of the Companys products maintain pricing and reimbursement at satisfactory levels for its depends on the ability to procure ingredients and packaging products may adversely affect the Companys revenues, financial materials from approved sources and for the manufacturing condition or results of operations.
process to be conducted at approved sites.
Changes of manufacturer or changes of source of ingredients or packaging The Company relies on a single source for manufacture materials must generally be approved by the regulatory agencies, of certain of its products.
A disruption to the supply chain which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure for these products may result in the Company being unable compliance with the applicable regulatory agencys regulations and to continue marketing or developing a product or may result standards.
The need to qualify a new manufacturer or source of in the Company being unable to do so on a commercially ingredients or packaging materials can take a significant amount of viable basis time.
Should it become necessary to change a manufacturer or The Company sources some products from third party contract supplier of ingredients or packaging materials, or to qualify an manufacturers, and for certain products has its own manufacturing additional supplier, the Company may not be able do so quickly capability.
Although the Company dual-sources certain key which could delay the manufacturing process.
products and or active ingredients, the Company currently relies on a single source for production of the final drug product for each of US based manufacturers must be registered with the DEA and ADDERALL XR, FIRAZYR, FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, LIALDA, similar regulatory authorities if they handle controlled substances.
PENTASA, RESOLOR and VPRIV in the US, relies on a single Certain of the Companys products, including ADDERALL XR and active ingredient source for each of ELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, VYVANSE, contain ingredients which are controlled substances FOSRENOL, INTUNIV, REPLAGAL, RESOLOR and VPRIV in the subject to quotas managed by the DEA.
As a result, the US and relies on a single source for certain serum reagents, the Companys procurement and production quotas may not be mesh framework and the manifold used in the manufacture of sufficient to meet commercial demand.
The Company manufactures VPRIV, ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL, and The Company uses third party manufacturers to manufacture DERMAGRAFT using complex biological processes.
The many of its products and is reliant upon third party contractors complexity of the manufacturing results in a number of risks, for certain goods and services.
Any inability of these third including the risk of viral or other contamination.
party manufacturers to manufacture products, or any failure Regulatory approvals or interventions associated with changes to of these third party contractors to provide these goods and manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could services, in each case in accordance with its respective lead to significant delays, increase in operating costs, lost product contractual obligations, could adversely affect the Companys sales, an interruption of research activities, or the delay of new ability to manage its manufacturing processes or to operate product launches, all of which could have a material adverse effect its business on the Companys revenues, financial condition and results of The Company may experience supply failures or delays beyond its operations.
control if any of its third party manufacturers do not supply the Company on time with the required volumes, or supply products The actions of certain customers could affect the Companys that do not meet regulatory requirements.
Any such third party ability to sell or market products profitably.
Fluctuations in supply failures could lead to significant delays, increase in operating buying or distribution patterns by such customers can costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities, or adversely impact the Companys revenues, financial the delay of new product launches, all of which could have a conditions or results of operations material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, financial A considerable portion of the Companys product sales are made condition or results of operations.
to major pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, as well as to large pharmacies, in both the US and Europe.
In 2012, for example, 50% The Company has also entered into many agreements with third of the Companys product sales were attributable to three parties for the provision of goods and services to enable it to customers in the US: McKesson Corp. Cardinal Health, Inc and operate its business.
If the third party does not provide the AmerisourceBergen Corp.
In the event of financial failure of any of goods or services on the agreed basis and within the specified these customers there could be a material adverse effect on the timeframe, the Company may not be able to continue the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of operations.
development or commercialization of its products as planned The Companys revenues, financial condition or results of or on a commercial basis.
operations could also be affected by uctuations in customer buying or distribution patterns.
These uctuations may result from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler inventory objectives, or other factors.
A significant portion of the Companys revenues for certain products for treatment of rare genetic diseases are concentrated with a small number of customers.
Changes in the buying patterns of those customers may have an adverse effect on the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of operations.
20 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities General risk factors related to the or law enforcement agencies relating to the Companys Company and to the healthcare industry activities in the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result in the distraction of senior management, significant The actions of governments, industry regulators and the legal costs and the payment of substantial compensation economic environments in which the Company operates may or fines adversely affect its ability to develop and profitably market The Company engages in various marketing, promotional and its products educational activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of, The healthcare industry is heavily regulated.
Changes to laws or pharmaceutical products and medical devices in a number of regulations impacting the healthcare industry, in any country in jurisdictions around the world.
The promotion, marketing and sale which the Company conducts its business, may adversely impact of pharmaceutical products and medical devices is highly regulated the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of and the operations of market participants, such as the Company, operations.
For example, changes to the regulations relating to the are closely supervised by regulatory authorities and law exclusivity periods available for the Companys products may allow enforcement agencies, including the US Department of HHS, the for the earlier entry of generic or biosimilar competitor products.
FDA, the US Department of Justice, the SEC and the DEA.
These A slowdown of global economic growth, or continued authorities and agencies and their equivalents in countries outside instability of the Eurozone, could have negative consequences the US have broad authority to investigate market participants for for the Companys business and increase the risk of nonpotential violations of federal laws relating to the marketing and payment by the Companys customers promotion of pharmaceutical products and medical devices, Growth of the global pharmaceutical market has become including the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Statute and the increasingly tied to global economic growth.
Accordingly a Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among others, for alleged improper substantial and lasting slowdown of the global economy or major conduct, including corrupt payments to government ofcials, national economies could negatively affect growth in the markets in improper payments to medical professionals, off-label marketing of which the Company operates.
Such a slowdown, or any resultant pharmaceutical products and medical devices, and the submission austerity measures adopted by governments in response to a of false claims for reimbursement by the federal government.
slowdown, could also reduce the level of reimbursement that Healthcare companies may also be subject to enforcement actions governments are willing and able to provide to the Company for its or prosecution for such conduct.
Any inquiries or investigations into products and, as a result, adversely affect the Companys the operations of, or enforcement or other regulatory action revenues, financial condition or results of operations.
against, the Company by such authorities could result in significant defense costs, fines, penalties and injunctive or administrative Any slowing economic environment may also lead to financial remedies, distract management to the detriment of the business, difficulties for some of the Companys significant customers.
In result in the exclusion of certain products, or the Company, from such situations, the Company could experience delays in payment government reimbursement programs or subject the Company to or non-payment of amounts owed which may result in a rising level regulatory controls or government monitoring of its activities in the of contractual defaults by its contractual counterparties.
The Company is subject to certain ongoing investigations by The Company does business, both directly with government governmental agencies.
For further information, see Note 18 hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and other agencies and indirectly Commitments and contingencies.
through wholesalers and distributors, with a number of Eurozone Adverse outcomes in legal matters and other disputes could governments, including the governments of Greece, Ireland, Italy, have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, Portugal and Spain.
These and other countries have experienced, financial condition or results of operations and may continue to experience, declines in their creditworthiness.
During the ordinary course of its business the Company may be These events could in turn result in these countries making involved in claims, disputes and litigation with third parties, significant cuts to their public spending, including national employees, regulatory agencies, governmental authorities and healthcare budgets, in an attempt to manage their budget deficits, other parties.
The range of matters of a legal nature that might arise or could result in a greater risk of default or non-payment of is extremely broad but could include, without limitation, outstanding payment obligations, any of which could adversely employment claims and disputes, intellectual property claims and affect the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of disputes, contract claims and disputes, product liability claims and operations.
disputes, regulatory litigation and tax audits and disputes.
In addition, there are concerns for the overall stability and suitability Any unfavorable outcome in such matters could adversely impact of the Euro as a single currency, given the economic and political the Companys ability to develop or commercialize its products, challenges facing individual Eurozone countries.
Continuing adversely affect the profitability of existing products, subject the deterioration in the creditworthiness of Eurozone countries, the Company to significant defence costs, fines, penalties, audit withdrawal of one or more member countries from the EU, or the findings and injunctive or administrative remedies, distract failure of the Euro as a common European currency could management to the detriment of the business, result in the adversely effect the Companys revenues, financial condition or exclusion of certain products, or the Company, from government results of operations.
reimbursement programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls or government monitoring of its activities in the future.
Any such outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenue, financial condition or results of operations.
For further information see Note 18 Commitments and contingencies.
Shire plc Annual Report 2012 21 Risks and uncertainties The introduction of new products by competitors may impact The failure of a strategic partner to develop and commercialize future revenues products could result in delays in development, approval or The markets in which the Company operates are highly loss of revenue competitive.
Many of the Companys competitors are large, well The Company enters into strategic partnerships with other known pharmaceutical, biotechnology, chemical and healthcare companies in areas such as product development and sales and companies with considerable resources.
In these partnerships, the Company is sometimes resources and larger R&D expenditures have a greater ability to dependent on its partner to deliver results.
While these fund clinical trials and other development work necessary for partnerships are governed by contracts, the Company may not regulatory applications.
They may also be more successful than the exercise direct control.
If a partner fails to perform or experiences Company in acquiring or licensing new products for development financial difficulties, the Company may suffer a delay in the and commercialization.
If any product that competes with one of development, a delay in the approval or a reduction in sales or the Companys principal drugs is approved, the Companys sales royalties of a product.
of that drug could be negatively impacted.
The failure to secure new products or compounds for The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and device industries are also development, either through in-licensing, acquisition or characterized by continuous product development and internal research and development efforts, or the failure to technological change.
The Companys products could, therefore, realize expected benets from acquisitions of businesses or be rendered obsolete or uneconomic, through the development of products, may have an adverse impact on the Companys new products, new methods of treatment, or technological future results advances in manufacturing or production by its competitors which The Companys future results will depend, to a significant extent, may impact future revenues.
upon its ability to develop, in-license or acquire new products or compounds, or to acquire other businesses.
The expected benets The successful development of products is highly uncertain from acquired products, compounds or businesses may not be and requires significant expenditures and time realized or may require signicantly greater resources and Products that appear promising in research or development may expenditure than originally anticipated.
The failure to realize be delayed or fail to reach later stages of development as: expected benets from acquisitions of businesses or products, or the failure to develop, in-license or acquire new products or Q preclinical or clinical tests may show the product to lack safety or compounds on a commercially viable basis, could have a material efcacy: adverse effect on the Companys revenues, financial condition or Q delays may be caused by slow enrolment in clinical studies: results of operations.
regulatory requirements for clinical trial drug supplies: extended The Company may fail to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend length of time to achieve study endpoints: additional time the intellectual property rights required to conduct its requirements for data analysis or dossier preparation: time business required for discussions with regulatory agencies, including The Companys success depends upon its ability and the ability of regulatory agency requests for additional preclinical or clinical its partners and licensors to protect their intellectual property rights.
data: delays at regulatory agencies due to stafng or resource Where possible, the Companys strategy is to register intellectual limitations: analysis of or changes to study design: unexpected property rights, such as patents and trade marks.
The Company safety, efcacy, or manufacturing issues: delays may arise from also relies on various trade secrets, unpatented know-how and shared control with collaborative partners in the planning and technological innovations and contractual arrangements with third execution of the product development, scaling of the parties to maintain its competitive position.
The failure to obtain, manufacturing process, or getting approval for manufacturing: maintain, enforce or defend such intellectual property rights, for any Q manufacturing issues, pricing or reimbursement issues, or other reason, could allow third parties to make competing products or factors may render the product economically unviable: impact the Companys ability to develop, manufacture and market its own products on a commercially viable basis, or at all, which Q the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and could have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, technologies may prevent the product from being developed or financial condition or results of operations.
commercialized: or The Company intends to enforce its patent rights vigorously and Q the product may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals.
believes that its commercial partners, licensors and third party Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that manufacturers intend to enforce vigorously those patent rights they late stage clinical trials will be successful.
Clinical results are have licensed to the Company.
However, the Companys patent frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, rights, and patent rights that the Company has licensed, may not limit, or prevent regulatory approvals.
The length of time necessary provide valid patent protection sufciently broad to prevent any to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing third party from developing, using or commercializing products that approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies are similar or functionally equivalent to the Companys products or signicantly and may be difficult to predict.
These patent rights may be challenged, revoked, large-scale or late stage clinical trials for a product are not invalidated, infringed or circumvented by third parties.
Laws relating successful, the Company will not recover its substantial to such rights may in future also be changed or withdrawn.
Additionally, the Companys products, or the technologies or In addition, even if the products receive regulatory approval, they processes used to formulate or manufacture those products may remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements, including, for now, or in the future, infringe the patent rights of third parties.
It is example, obligations to conduct additional clinical trials or other also possible that third parties will obtain patent or other proprietary non-clinical testing, changes to the product label which could rights that might be necessary or useful for the development, impact its marketability and prospects for commercial success, manufacture or sale of the Companys products.
The Company new or revised requirements for manufacturing, written notications may need to obtain licenses for intellectual property rights from to physicians, or product recalls or withdrawals.
others and may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
22 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Overview The Company also relies on trade secrets and other unpatented If a marketed product fails to work effectively or causes proprietary information, which it generally seeks to protect by adverse side-effects, this could result in damage to the condentiality and non-disclosure agreements with its employees, Companys reputation, the withdrawal of the product and legal consultants, advisors and partners.
These agreements may not action against the Company effectively prevent disclosure of condential information and may Unanticipated side-effects or unfavorable publicity from complaints not provide the Company with an adequate remedy in the event of concerning any of the Companys products, or those of its unauthorized disclosure.
In addition, if the Companys employees, competitors, could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability scientific consultants or partners develop inventions or processes to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or successfully market its that may be applicable to the Companys products under products.
The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sales of development, such inventions and processes will not necessarily pharmaceutical products and medical devices entails a risk of become the Companys property, but may remain the property of product liability claims, product recalls, litigation and associated those persons or their employers.
The cost of defending against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not merited.
A successful The Company has led applications to register various trade marks product liability claim against the Company could require the for use in connection with its products in various countries and Company to pay a substantial monetary award.
If, in the absence also, with respect to certain products, relies on the trade marks of adequate insurance coverage, the Company does not have of third parties.
These trade marks may not afford adequate sufficient financial resources to satisfy a liability resulting from such protection or the Company or the third parties may not have a claim or to fund the legal defense of such a claim, it could the financial resources to enforce their rights under these trade become insolvent.
Product liability insurance coverage is marks which may enable others to use the trade marks and expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future dilute their value.
Although the Company carries product liability insurance when available, this coverage may not be In the regular course of business, the Company is party to litigation adequate.
In addition, it cannot be certain that insurance coverage or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights See for present or future products will be available.
Moreover, an Note 18 Commitments and contingencies for details of current adverse judgment in a product liability suit, even if insured or patent litigation.
eventually overturned on appeal, could generate substantial negative publicity about the Companys products and business and inhibit or prevent commercialization of other products.
Loss of highly qualied personnel could cause the Company subsequent financial loss The Company faces competition for highly qualied personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations.
It may not be able to successfully attract and retain such personnel.
The Company has agreements with a number of its key personnel for periods of one year or less.
The loss of such personnel, or the inability to attract and retain the additional, highly skilled employees required for its activities could have an adverse effect on the Companys business.
