Risk management Smiths Group is exposed to a wide range of risks in running its businesses.
The Company and its divisions consider these risks on a regular basis and seek to put in place appropriate risk management processes, policies and other measures, including insurance where appropriate.
However, there can be no assurance that these measures will Economic outlook be effective in any particular case.
If any of these risks, or other Risk unforeseen risks, materialise, they could have a significant adverse The Group operates in more than 50 countries and is affected effect not only on our business and financial condition but also on our by global economic conditions, particularly in the US and Europe.
reputation and the trading prices and liquidity of our securities.
This Our business is also affected by government spending priorities, could lead to a loss for investors of part of or, in a worst case scenario, in particular in the US and Europe, and the willingness of all of their investment.
governments to commit substantial resources to homeland security and defence.
The Groups process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business risks is reviewed by the Audit Committee and Current global economic and financial market conditions, and monitored by the Group Internal Audit Department.
An outline of the potential for a significant and prolonged global recession, this years review process by the Board and Audit Committee is set may materially and adversely affect Group performance and out on page 77.
A description of the Companys internal controls and financial condition.
A recession may also materially affect our risk management processes is given in the Corporate governance customers, suppliers and other parties with which we do business.
Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause our customers to terminate existing orders, to reduce their Further information is provided below on our principal risks and the purchases from the Group, or to be unable to meet their obligations mitigating activities in place to address them.
The Group is exposed to pay outstanding amounts due to the Group.
These market to a larger number of risks than those listed.
However, we have made conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to meet their a conscious effort to disclose those risks that have been debated at commitments to the Group or to change the credit terms they recent Board or Audit Committee meetings and are of most concern extend to us.
to the business at this time.
Potential impact Changes to the Groups risk prole A significant and sustained economic downturn, or any similar Since the last annual report, the Groups assessment of its risks has event, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups incorporated the following risk areas: operational performance and financial condition.
There has been a sustained risk that certain Eurozone members Risk management fail to meet their sovereign debt obligations, which could destabilise The Group has a diversied portfolio of businesses that mitigates the Euro currency and result in currency devaluations in some of exposure to any one country or sector.
If such devaluation took place, the Groups trading position might be adversely affected and investments in such The divisions regularly monitor their order ows and other leading markets may decrease in value.
We are preparing plans to address indicators, where available, so that they may respond quickly to a these effects where it would be practical and economic to do so.
Continued constraints on government budgets are likely to put In the event of a significant economic downturn, there may pressure on public sector spending in areas such as healthcare, be opportunities to identify and implement cost reduction defence and homeland security in markets in which the Group opportunities to offset the impact on margins from a deterioration operates.
This budgetary pressure has also caused payment terms in sales.
to lengthen with some government-funded customers, particularly in Southern Europe, although we continue to manage any overdue debts very closely.
There may be other effects, such as changes in the scal and regulatory policies in the countries where the Group conducts its business.
The incidence of cyber-security crime has increased in recent years and some Smiths Group companies operate in sectors where cybercriminals have been active.
We continue to monitor our systems closely and have introduced a Group-wide information security awareness programme.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 54 Financial risks foreign exchange, funding, tax and insurance Eurozone break-up Risk Risk Foreign exchange: Exchange rate uctuations have had, and Political and economic structural weaknesses in the single currency could continue to have, a material impact on the reported results.
framework have caused heightened risk that the Eurozone may The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction not survive in its present form.
If the Eurozone breaks up, one or and translation.
more countries will leave the Euro, and opt for new currencies.
This may result in substantial default on existing Euro sovereign debt Funding: The Groups ability to renance its borrowings in the and economic dislocation.
It could also result in capital exchange bank or capital markets is dependent on market conditions and controls being imposed, some domestic banking failures and the proper functioning of financial markets.
Tax: The Groups future profitability, particularly in the US where Potential impact there are higher rates of corporation tax, may cause the headline Smiths Group has approximately 5-6% of its business measured tax rate to increase over time.
Changes in tax and scal regulations by sales, profit or net assets in Spain, Ireland, Portugal, Italy and and transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate Greece, which could be adversely affected by currency devaluations.
could affect the Group, particularly at times when public sector debt is high.
It might affect the profitability of existing contracts and customers might be unable to repay debts according to agreed Insurance: The Group cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain terms.
A Eurozone break-up is likely to affect the wider economic insurance on acceptable terms or at all.
Furthermore, the Group environment, particularly in Europe, which could affect trading cannot be certain that its insurance will cover losses arising from on a global basis.
events or that insurers will not dispute coverage.
In addition, even if our coverage is sufficient, the insurance industry is subject to credit Risk management risk, particularly in the event of a catastrophe or where an insurer The diversied portfolio mitigates exposure to any single has substantial exposure to a specic risk.
We also have robust processes to monitor overdue debts.
Potential impact Foreign exchange: The Groups reported results will uctuate as We have net investment hedging of c. 50% of our overseas average exchange rates change.
The Groups reported net assets currency exposure and assets.
will uctuate as the year-end exchange rate changes.
A project has identied further risk mitigation actions and Funding: The Group may be unable to renance its debt when due.
reviewed opportunities to provide contractual protection.
Tax: Taxation costs could rise and earnings per share could deteriorate, which could affect the Groups market valuation.
Global supply chain concentration of manufacturing Insurance: If insurance cover is inadequate or does not pay out as Risk expected, the Group could be exposed to an unexpected material The Groups business depends on the availability and timely delivery cash outow, which may impact on the Groups liquidity and or of raw materials and purchased components, and could be affected share price.
by a disruption to its supply chain.
In particular, we rely on sole suppliers to provide raw materials or components for some Risk management of our products.
Foreign exchange: The Groups hedging strategy, whereby larger transactions are hedge accounted, mitigates the risk to The Groups manufacturing facilities are exposed to a number profitability to some extent.
Net investment hedging of overseas of natural catastrophe risks, which, like other external events such assets of approximately 50% through borrowing in non-sterling as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic, could have significant currencies mitigates the impact of exchange rate uctuations adverse consequences.
The Group is also affected by the social, on net assets.
economic, regulatory and political conditions in the countries where it operates, which are often unpredictable and outside its control, Funding: The Groups debt maturity is staggered so that the particularly in developing countries.
As at 31 July 2012, we had an undrawn revolving credit facility of $800m.
Potential impact The concentration of manufacturing in lower cost countries, in Tax: The Groups taxation staff co-ordinate tax management particular in Mexico and China, increases the length of the supply to mitigate possible increases in the effective tax rate.
Regular chain and means that an adverse event could have more significant reporting to the Board of tax risks and exposures provides good consequences for our ability to supply customers on time.
A longer supply chain also affects transport costs, which could Insurance: Insurance risk is spread across a number of carriers be exacerbated by energy cost ination.
to minimise individual insured risk and counterparty risk.
Risk management Business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in place Read more on page 52 and tested for critical locations, to reduce the impact of an event.
Single source supplier risks are identied and, where possible, key materials or components are dual sourced to mitigate the impact of an event.
The Group regularly evaluates its key sites for a range of risk factors using externally benchmarked assessments, and takes action to improve these ratings, where appropriate.
The Group has business interruption and property damage insurance.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 55 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Information technology and cyber-security Risk management Risk The Groups information systems, personnel and facilities are Continued subject to security risk.
The Group is dependent on information technology systems for both internal and external communications and for the day-to-day management of its operations.
The incidence of cyber-security crime is on the rise and some Smiths Group companies operate in sectors where cyber-criminals are active.
Potential impact Any disruption to the information systems could have significant adverse consequences for the Groups operations or its ability to trade.
It could result in the loss of condential information and Government customers intellectual property, which could affect the Groups competitive position and cause reputational damage.
Risk We derive a significant proportion of our revenues in mature Risk management Western economies.
Additionally, around 35% of the Groups Extensive controls and reviews are undertaken to maintain revenue is from governments and their agencies or are inuenced the integrity and efficiency of IT infrastructure and data.
There are also processes to deal with significant IT security Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect incidents.
frequently tender for government contracts.
The timing of contract awards and payments under these contracts may be uncertain and A Group-wide information security awareness programme has been launched.
uneven over a given financial year.
Any significant disruption or deterioration in relationship with these governments could result in fewer contracts and lower revenues.
Acquisitions and disposals Potential impact Risk At a time when government nances are under pressure, these The success of the Groups acquisition strategy depends on headwinds may lead to slower growth across the business.
identifying targets, obtaining authorisations and having the necessary nancing.
Even if an acquisition is completed, the acquired products A decrease in spending by key government customers could and technologies may not be successful or may require signicantly materially affect the Groups results and financial condition.
greater resources and investment than anticipated.
Delays in awarding government contracts can affect the Groups The Group may not be able to integrate the businesses that it sales, margins and cash conversion in a particular reporting period.
If integration is unsuccessful, anticipated benets are not Risk management realised or trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, The Group has a diversied portfolio of businesses that mitigates it may be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
exposure to any one country or sector.
In recent years, the Group has disposed of a number of businesses, Some of our government-related business has a services or including its Aerospace operations, where it has given indemnities, consumables component, which can be more resilient during warranties and guarantees to counterparties.
The Group is also party an economic downturn.
to a number of contracts relating to formerly owned businesses which it has not yet novated to the purchasers of these businesses.
The Group has a government relations function so that it can inform policy and maintain close relationships with customers.
Potential impact This supports the monitoring of lead indicators and helps us to The Groups return on capital employed may fall if acquisition position our businesses appropriately for the economic cycle.
The Groups financial performance may suffer from goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges.
insufficient allowance for indemnities and warranties given at disposal may affect our financial position.
Risk management We perform comprehensive strategic and financial reviews of all opportunities.
Detailed due diligence and integration work is undertaken and reviewed in accordance with Group policy.
Due diligence includes an assessment of the acquisition targets talent and competencies.
We also consider the integration process and management.
The Board only authorises acquisitions after completion of due diligence, and approval is subject to meeting the capital allocation and other financial hurdles set by the Board.
The Board regularly reviews post-acquisition performance and integration.
The Executive Committee and Board review the acquisition pipeline.
There are monthly reviews with strategy leads for each division.
On disposals, the Group seeks to minimise its exposure to indemnities and warranties and any that are provided are reviewed on a regular basis.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 56 Compliance with legislation and regulations Risk There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete compliance with laws, regulations or permits, for example concerning environmental or safety requirements.
The Group operates in highly regulated sectors.
Smiths Detection, Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Medical are particularly subject to regulation, with certain customers, regulators or other enforcement bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes and premises.
Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect manufacture security products and components, which are subject to numerous export Pension funding controls, technology licensing and other government regulations.
Risk In addition, new legislation, regulations or certication At 31 July 2012, the Group has legacy dened benefit pension plans, requirements may require additional expense, restrict commercial with aggregate liabilities in excess of 3bn on an accounting basis.
exibility and business strategies or introduce additional liabilities Changes in discount rates, ination, asset returns or mortality for the company or directors.
There also appears to be a growing assumptions could lead to a materially higher deficit.
For example, trend for legislation that could be described as protectionist, the cost of a buyout on a discontinued basis, and therefore using which may affect our businesses.
more conservative assumptions, is likely to be signicantly higher than the accounting deficit.
Potential impact The Group could be held responsible for liabilities and In addition, there is a risk that the plans assets, such as consequences arising from past or future environmental damage, investments in equity and debt securities, will not be sufficient including potentially significant remedial costs.
There can be no to cover the value of those benets.
assurance that any provisions for expected environmental liabilities Potential impact and remediation costs will adequately cover these liabilities The implications of a higher pension deficit include a direct or costs.
impact on valuation, credit rating and potential additional funding Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
The 2012 triennial our products may be delayed in getting to market, which could lead review of the principal UK pension schemes may result in higher to a loss of revenue or benefit a competitor with a similar product.
cash payments from the Group.
Corruption on the part of a single employee can entail severe In the event of a major disposal that generates significant cash consequences for the Group.
proceeds that are returned to shareholders, the Group may be Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant required to make additional cash payments to the schemes or financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or provide additional security.
Risk management Risk management All major schemes US UK have been closed to future accrual.
Environmental, health and safety data are reported to the Agreed funding plans are in place with the major UK schemes Quarterly Business Reviews, Executive Committee and the following the last triennial reviews.
The Group seeks a good Board, along with actions to improve performance over time.
working relationship with the trustees through regular Smiths Medical has dedicated staff who maintain close update meetings.
contact with the US Food and Drug Administration and other There are plans in place to reduce the mismatch between assets key regulators.
classes and liabilities, as relative outperformance of the assets All divisions have trade compliance advice and training.
This versus liabilities is achieved, although there is no downside includes training on the Groups Code of Business Ethics and protection in place should this not occur.
Pension matters are regularly reported to the Board.
Divisional and Group General Counsel monitor legislative changes assisted by Government Relations staff and report and monitor actions as necessary.
This may require modications to our supply Read more in note 10 on pages 112-115 chains and customer arrangements.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 57 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Technology and innovation Risk management Risk Developing new products and improving existing products is critical Continued to our business and competitors may innovate more effectively.
The emergence of a disruptive technology could have an impact on a major cash-ow contributor to the Group over time.
The speed of innovation in certain markets may lead to shorter product lifecycles, increasing the need for innovation.
Additionally, the entry of new competitors, the consolidation of existing competitors and changed or irrational competitor behaviour could all signicantly affect the Groups business.
Product liability and litigation Potential impact Risk The failure of the Group to develop its products and services, or In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to more effective innovation by a competitor, could have a materially litigation such as product liability claims and lawsuits, including adverse effect on sales growth.
potential class actions, alleging that the Groups products have Risk management resulted or could result in an unsafe condition or injury.
The Group has a diversied technology portfolio in a range In addition, manufacturing aws, component failures or design of sectors and geographies.
defects could require us to recall products.
Many of our products are used in critical applications where the consequences of a Our continued investment in R&D supports new product and service development.
failure could be extremely serious and, in some cases, potentially catastrophic.
The Group looks to expand the addressable markets of its key Products sold to the aviation, security, healthcare, energy and businesses by building capabilities in adjacent markets, through organic investment and targeted acquisitions.
consumer domestic industries are particularly critical in nature.
Furthermore, over half the Groups sales are in the US, where there is potentially increased litigation risk.
Talent and succession planning Potential impact Risk Any liability claim against the Group, with or without merit, could The loss of key personnel, or the failure to plan adequately for be costly to defend and could increase our insurance premiums.
succession or develop new talent.
Some claims might not be covered by our insurance policies, either adequately or at all.
Competition for personnel is intense and the Group may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualied personnel, particularly An adverse event involving one of our products could damage engineering professionals.
In addition, certain personnel may be our reputation and reduce market acceptance and demand required to receive security clearance and substantial training for all of our products.
to work on certain programmes.
The loss of key employees, the Risk management Groups inability to attract new or adequately trained employees, Quality assurance processes are embedded in our manufacturing or a delay in hiring key personnel could seriously harm the locations for critical equipment, supporting compliance with Groups business.
Potential impact A global best practice programme is underway to enhance May impact the reputation of the Group, or lead to a disruption product quality processes across the Group.
This is sponsored in the leadership of the business.
by the Executive Committee and leverages the ongoing work Over time, our competitive advantage is dened by the quality of in Smiths Medical and John Crane.
our people should we fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, The divisions have procedures for dealing with product liability in time our competitive advantage will erode, leading to weaker issues and potential product recalls.
These procedures are growth potential or returns.
informed by crisis management planning workshops and Risk management rehearsals.
Each division or function holds talent and succession plan The Group has insurance cover for certain product liability risks.
These plans are reviewed by the The US Safety Act provides legislative protection for certain Nomination Committee.
Smiths Detection products in the US: and we support efforts Remuneration packages, including variable and long-term to implement similar legislation in other markets.
elements of the compensation arrangements are evaluated Any litigation is managed under the supervision of the Groups regularly against market practice.
We have detailed action plans to manage actual or threatened litigation.
Read more on pages 17 and 63 Read more on page 53 and in note 22 on pages 128-130 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 58
