SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Risk Management Report The Board believes it has struck an appropriate ong term shareholder value is dependent on HOW WE the success of the Groups activities, which balance between exposure and coverage.
are directed towards the search, evaluation MANAGE RISK L and development of oil and gas resources.
Empowerment Risk The Groups international portfolio comprises oil and Exploration for, and development of, hydrocarbons is DIRECTLY speculative and involves a significant degree of risk gas ventures in widespread, often remote locations with government and industry partners.
Conduct of involving multiple factors.
Critical to ensuring the AFFECTS ongoing success of the Company in applying its three operations requires the delegation of a degree of decision making to partners, contractors and locally core strategic objectives of recognising opportunity, HOW WE DO capturing potential and realising value is the based personnel.
As operator in a project, SOCO can directly inuence operations and decision making.
identication, assessment and mitigation of the BUSINESS various risk factors.
Where SOCO is a co-venturer it seeks to maximise its inuence through active participation with Consequently, SOCO has a formal process in place to management, including direct secondments and application of internal control best practice under identify and mitigate risks applicable to an upstream oil and gas business.
The Directors have ultimate a procedural framework.
responsibility for risk management with the Audit Committee providing detailed oversight.
The Board has Reserves Risk As discussed in Note 4 to the financial statements, designated the Chief Financial officer as the executive responsible for the Companys risk management the Company uses standard recognised evaluation techniques to estimate its proven and probable oil and function.
He is supported in this task by the Chief Operating officer and the Group Exploration Manager.
However, such techniques have inherent uncertainties in their application.
As the Company has There is an ongoing process to identify, monitor projects with booked reserves in the early stages of production or development, upward or downward and mitigate risk throughout the year with any new or changes to existing risks considered at each revisions to reserve estimates will be made when new and relevant information becomes available.
Annually, the Audit Committee undertakes a rigorous and detailed risk Such revisions may impact the Groups financial position and results, in particular, in relation to assessment wherein the Groups risk prole, including the mitigation measures in place to reduce risk depreciation, depletion and decommissioning costs and impairment.
to acceptable levels, is considered.
This risk assessment is then presented to the Directors Portfolio management through exploration, appraisal for full Board approval.
or acquisition may fail to yield reserves in commercial quantities sufficient to replace production.
The Group Risk management and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed in continues to evaluate projects in existing and potentially new areas of interest and will add Note 4 to the financial statements.
The Groups risk management policies and procedures are further exploration licences when the appropriate opportunities arise.
discussed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 47.
Health, Safety, Environment Operational Risk and Social Risks The Group operates in an industry sector with inherent There are inherent risks in conducting exploration, drilling, and construction operations in the upstream high risks associated with health, safety and the environment.
Additionally, it operates in regions where industry.
The level of risk is potentially impacted by harsh geographical conditions and associated resource there is a greater risk of economic or social instability and where local attitudes to risk differ compared with availability and costs.
SOCO seeks to mitigate its operational risks through the application of industry nations with more established or developed economies.
Accordingly, the Group may be exposed best practice procedures throughout its operations.
Mitigation may also be achieved by transferring risk, to specic risks in relation to social and environmental factors as well as health and safety matters, including for example, by entering into partnerships or farm-outs and by maintaining, at a minimum, standard industry security, and attempts to mitigate such risks by actively engaging with local communities and governments, best practice insurance.
The Board of Directors does not believe that it is practical or prudent to obtain using specialist consultants and by maintaining appropriate policies and procedures.
Further details of third-party insurance to cover all adverse circumstances it may encounter as a result of its oil how SOCO addresses these risks can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 37. and gas activities.
However, the Board believes that SOCOs comprehensive property, control of well, Political and Regional Risk casualty, liability and other policy cover conforms to industry best practice.
As such, it provides substantial Many of the Groups projects are in developing countries or countries with emerging free market protection against typical industry operational risks.
26 26 S St tr rate ategic gic Re Revi vie ew w Busines Business s Revie Review w Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Assessment and feedback Analysis, monitoring and feedback SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 systems where the regulatory environment may not be as mature as in more developed countries.
There An ongoing process to identify, may be a high level of risk in relation to compliance with and interpretation of emerging hydrocarbon law, monitor and mitigate risk taxation and other regulations.
SOCO seeks to minimise such risks by using in-country professional advisors and by engaging directly with the relevant authorities where appropriate.
Some of the Groups interests are in regions identied as potentially more susceptible to business interruptions due to the Audit consequences of possible unrest.
The Group assesses Committee such risks before beginning operations in any particular area and has deemed these risks commercially acceptable.
SOCO does not currently carry political Board of risk insurance or associated business interruption Directors insurance coverage to mitigate such risks.
However, it periodically assesses the cost and benefit of both and future circumstances may lead the Group to acquire such insurance cover.
Business Conduct and Bribery Risk SOCO operates both in an industry sector and in certain countries where the promotion of transparent procurement and investment policies is perceived as having a low priority and where customary practice may fall short of the standards expected by the UK Bribery Act.
The Group seeks to mitigate these risks by ensuring that it has appropriate procedures in place to eliminate bribery and that all employees, agents Chief Financial and other associated persons are made fully aware Chief Operating of the Groups policies and procedures with regard to officer officer ethical behaviour, business conduct and transparency.
Running in parallel with the Groups general risk Group management process, the Audit Committee has Exploration established a detailed bribery risk assessment Manager and mitigation reporting procedure.
Bribery risks are monitored throughout the year along with implementation of procedures to mitigate any new risks identied.
The Company has arrangements for whistleblowing, whereby staff may raise concerns regarding improprieties in confidence, which would be addressed with appropriate follow-up action.
To facilitate such reporting the Company has introduced an Ethics Hotline Service using an independent, condential telephone service that Operations can be used by staff members and other stakeholders to report a suspected breach of SOCOs Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Local Managers Headquarters 27 27 Identication and mitigation: Reporting and consultation Reporting and consultation SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW Risk Management Report continued Reputational Risk The Group operates in locations where social and environmental matters may be highly sensitive both on the ground and as perceived globally.
This can potentially lead to a reputational risk which may inuence various Group stakeholders.
However, SOCO works closely with all of its stakeholders including local communities, governments and non-governmental organisations to ensure that, during operations, any disturbance is minimised and that on completion of the Groups activities the local population and environment will be left in, at least, as good a state as when SOCO first arrived.
See the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 37 for further information.
Commodity Price Risk The Group does not currently maintain any xed price, long term marketing contracts.
Production is sold on spot or near term contracts, with prices xed at the time of a transfer of custody or on the basis of an average market price.
However the Board may give consideration in certain circumstances to the appropriateness of entering into xed price, long term marketing contracts.
Although oil prices may uctuate widely, it is the Groups policy not to hedge crude oil sales unless hedging is required to mitigate financial risks associated with debt nancing of its assets or to meet its commitments.
Accordingly, no price hedging mechanisms were in place during the year.
Over time, during periods when the Group sees an opportunity to lock in attractive oil prices, it may engage in limited price hedging.
Foreign Currency Risk Generally, it is the Companys policy to conduct and manage its business in US dollars.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are primarily held in US dollars, but smaller amounts may be held in GB pounds or local currencies to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses, or to comply with local currency regulations.
From time to time the Company may take short term hedging positions to protect the value of any cash balances it holds in non-US dollar currencies.
The Group seeks to minimise the impact that debt nancing has on its balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in matching currencies.
The Groups convertible bonds are denominated in US dollars.
The impact of a 10% movement in foreign exchange rates on the Groups net assets as at 31 December 2012 would not have been material 2011 not material and would not have been material with respect to the Groups profit in 2012 nor 2011.
Liquidity and Credit Risk The Group carried significant cash balances throughout the year thereby increasing its exposure to liquidity and credit risk.
To mitigate these risks and to protect the Groups financial position cash balances are generally invested in short term, non-equity instruments or liquidity funds, not exceeding three months forward.
On occasion the Company may 28 28 S St tr rate ategic gic Re Revi vie ew w Busines Business s Revie Review w Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 benefit from higher returns by investing surplus cash Contractual Risk into liquid investments not exceeding six months.
The Group enters into various contractual Investments are generally confined to money market arrangements in the ordinary course of its business.
or xed term deposits in major financial institutions.
Such contracts may rely on provisional information that is subject to further negotiation at a later date.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk as at This may give rise to uncertainty regarding such 31 December 2012 was $370.8 million 2011 information.
In considering any financial impact on $277.0 million.
The Groups non-current financial the Groups financial statements, income, expenses, asset that is subject to credit risk comprises a financial assets and liabilities are recognised in accordance asset arising in respect of the Groups disposal of its with applicable International Financial Reporting Mongolia interest see Note 18 to the financial Standards and International Accounting Standards.
The Groups and Companys other financial assets comprise investments, trade Capital Risk Management receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities seeks to minimise credit risk by only maintaining in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns balances with creditworthy third parties including while maximising the return to stakeholders through major multi-national oil companies subject to the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The contractual terms in respect of trade receivables.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt see credit risk on liquid funds is limited as the Board only Note 23 to the financial statements, cash and cash selects institutions with high credit-ratings assigned by equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders international credit-rating agencies and endeavours to of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and spread cash balances and liquid investments in retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 25, 26 and multiple institutions.
The level of deposits held by 27 to the financial statements and in the Statement different institutions is regularly reviewed.
During the year the Company purchased 7,514,416 2011 1,497,852 of its own The Groups cash requirements and balances are ordinary shares, of 0.05 each, into treasury see Note projected for the Group as a whole and for each 26 to the financial statements and repurchased and country in which operations and capital expenditures cancelled convertible bonds with a par value of $0.9 are conducted.
The Group meets these requirements million 2011 $35.4 million see Note 23 to the through an appropriate mix of available funds, equity financial statements.
The Groups ability to satisfy its debt obligations and to pursue its operational objectives is discussed in the Financial Review.
The Group seeks to minimise the impact that any debt nancings have on its balance sheet by negotiating borrowings in matching currencies see Note 23 to the financial statements.
The Group further mitigates liquidity risk by entering into arrangements with industry partners thereby sharing costs and risks, and by maintaining an insurance programme to minimise exposure to insurable losses.
Interest Rate Risk The Group earns interest on its cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments at oating and xed rates.
Fixed rate interest is charged on the Groups convertible bonds see Note 23 to the financial statements.
The fair value of the Groups non-current SOCO has a financial asset see Note 18 to the financial statements is also dependent on the discount rate formal process used.
Management assesses the Groups sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
If interest rates had been in place to identify 0.5% higher or lower and all other variables held constant, the Groups profit for the year ended, and its net assets at, 31 December 2012 would decrease and mitigate risks or increase by $1.8 million 2011 $2.1 million.
applicable to an upstream oil and gas business.
