Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance 43 Quick reference guide Chairmans introduction Other statutory and to the contents of the to governance p44 regulatory disclosures p80 Governance section Board of Directors p46 Statement of Directors res ponsibilities in respect Corporate governance report of the Annual Report p48 and Accounts p83 Audit Committee p52 Report of the Nomination Committee p54 independent auditor p84 Risk management and principal risks p55 Remuneration report p60 Statement of compliance p75 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Chairmans introduction to governance At Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc we remain committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This is central to the continued strong performance of the business in a manner which is sustainable in the long-term and to maintain the con dence of shareholders.
We believe that good governance is about During 2012 it has been particularly important managing the business effectively and to keep in touch with our principal investors in a way that is honest, transparent and to ensure we have a better ongoing and accountable.
On the following pages, we set out our Mr Bullock has met with investors and approach to governance.
We explain how the shareholder representative bodies on Board and its Committees are structured, how remuneration.
We have listened to ensure that they operate and what they have done during we understand the views of our shareholders.
the year, as well as how their effectiveness This active discussion develops a better is evaluated.
We support the Governments understanding of mutual objectives and will efforts to encourage more effective narrative continue to be a focus going forward.
reporting and we ensure that our reporting on Bill Whiteley As a Board, we have ultimate responsibility for governance matters is comprehensive, clear Chairman the Groups performance and for overseeing and well-structured.
We aim for reporting that the management of risk.
We acknowledge is relevant and accessible.
that shareholders look to us to promote the As required by the Listing Rules of the long-term success of the Group and, as Financial Services Authority, our Governance Chairman, I recognise that it is my role to Report explains how the Group has applied provide the leadership to enable it to do so the principles and complied with the effectively.
This year the effectiveness of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Board was subject to an externally facilitated Code 2010 Code.
The table on pages 75 to independent review by Dr Tracy Long of 79 sets out, on a provision by provision basis, Boardroom Review Limited.
The details our compliance with the Code.
of this review are set out on page 51.
The effectiveness of the Board is reviewed on We have satis ed the requirements of the an annual basis and it is the Boards intention Code in 2012 and up to the date of approval to undertake an independent external review of the Annual Report.
at least once every three years.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code The Board takes seriously its responsibility 2012 applies to the Group from 1st January for promoting the Groups values and, in 2013 and we will report under this code in particular, for ensuring that all employees future Annual Reports, although many of the and everyone associated with the Group are requirements in the 2012 code are embedded aware of their responsibility to act lawfully in this years Annual Report.
and conduct themselves in accordance with high standards of business integrity.
Other statutory and regulatory disclosures These values are embedded in our Group required under DTR 7.2.
6 can be found on Management Code.
A strong anti-corruption page 81. culture has long been at the centre of the Mr Bullock, the Senior Independent Groups values.
The UK Bribery Act 2010 Director and Remuneration Committee saw the introduction of an Anti-Bribery and Chairman, discusses in his introduction to Corruption Policy and its implementation the Remuneration Report, on page 60, our across the Group.
We have built on this Policy approach to executive remuneration.
during 2012 by introducing speci c policies This is a topic which has been the subject on gifts and hospitality, and dealing with third of debate and we appreciate that it is parties.
In January 2013 we also introduced important to our shareholders.
Therefore, a comprehensive training programme called we have placed considerable emphasis anti-bribery@work across the Group.
As in this Annual Report on the clarity of the part of the programme all Directors and Remuneration Report.
44 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance 45 The Boardroom Chairman Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors Bill Whiteley Chairman Senior management experience Engineering International employees who work with customers and David Meredith Gareth Bullock suppliers, approximately 2,400 in total, Finance Director Senior Independent Director are required to pass a test.
The training Non-Executive Director will be refreshed and repeated periodically.
Finance and accounting The principle that no employee or Engineering Banking representative should be involved or Pensions Risk implicated in any way in corrupt practices, Remuneration and the training and tools to ensure International skill that this principle is applied, are rmly embedded throughout the Group.
A further area of focus for us in 2012 was Neil Daws Krishnamurthy a review of our arrangements with our Executive Director Asia Rajagopal external auditor.
With support from the Paci c and Supply Independent Audit Committee, the Board satis ed itself Non-Executive Director Manufacturing that KPMG Audit Plc is both effective and Engineering Engineering independent.
Following the publication Health, safety and Senior management of revised guidance by the Financial environmental experience Reporting Council, we have taken the International opportunity to review and update our policy on auditor independence and we explain the revised policy in more detail in Nick Anderson Trudy Schoolenberg the section on audit and accountability on Executive Director EMEA Independent page 53.
Non-Executive Director Engineering Good corporate governance has always International operations Engineering been an important matter for the Board Sales management Product development and, combined with our clear and Oil and petrochemical consistent strategy, the Group is well equipped to continue generating value for shareholders.
I look forward to meeting you at our Annual General Meeting on Thursday, 9th May 2013.
Jay Whalen Clive Watson Executive Director WMP Independent Bill Whiteley Non-Executive Director Chairman Engineering Sales and marketing Finance International business Business planning development Engineering Mark E Vernon Group Chief Executive Experienced CEO Engineering International Directors biographies are set out on pages 46 and 47.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Board of Directors Bill Whiteley BSc, FCMA 64 Mark E Vernon BSc Hons 60 Gareth Bullock MA 59 Chairman Group Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Committees Committees Committees Nomination Chairman Nomination, Risk Management Chairman Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman Experience Experience Experience Joined the Group as an independent Joined the Group in 2003 as President of the Joined the Group as an independent Non-Executive Director in 2002 and was Groups steam business in the US.
Mr Vernon Non-Executive Director in 2005.
Mr Bullock appointed Chairman in 2009.
Until his was appointed to the Board in 2006, became has had a career in banking, having retired retirement in 2008 Mr Whiteley was Chief Chief Operating Of cer in 2007 and Group from the Board of Standard Chartered PLC Executive of Rotork plc, where he had been Chief Executive in 2008.
Mr Vernon is a in 2010 following roles in Technology and a Director since 1984.
He is Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Senior plc and, with Operations, Strategy and Northeast Asia.
Brammer plc and Hill & Smith Holdings PLC effect from February 2013, Liqtech International, He was most recently responsible for Africa, and Senior Independent Director of Renishaw Inc. Mr Vernon has had a long career in Middle East, Europe and the Americas as plc.
Mr Whiteley has been awarded an honorary industrial engineering, serving previously as well as for the Risk function.
Mr Bullock also Doctorate of Engineering by the University Group Vice-President of Flowserves Flow currently serves as a Non-Executive Director of Bath.
Control Business Unit, Group Vice-President of Tesco PLC and Global Market Group Ltd, of Durco International and President of Valtek and is a Trustee of the British Council.
Krishnamurthy Rajagopal FREng, CEng, Trudy Schoolenberg PhD 54 Clive Watson B Comm Acc, ACA, FIET, FIMechE, FIE, FCMI, PhD 59 Independent Non-Executive Director CTA 55 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Committees Committees Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration Experience Experience Experience Joined the Group as an independent Joined the Group in August 2012 as an Joined the Group as an independent Non-Executive Director in 2009.
Dr Rajagopal independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr Watson is a Non-Executive Director of WS Atkins plc, Dr Schoolenberg most recently served as is an Executive Director and Group Finance Bodycote plc and e2v technologies plc.
He also Vice-President of Global Research & Director of Spectris plc.
He held several tax 3 serves as Chairman of UMI Ltd. On completing Development at Wartsila Oy, the world leader in and finance roles before joining Black & his Doctorate in 1980, he became Manufacturing land and marine power systems.
Prior to that, Decker in 1988 as Director of Tax and Systems Manager for Edwards High Vacuum she worked for 21 years for Royal Dutch Shell Treasury Europe, and was later appointed part of the BOC Group plc before being plc and held several senior management Vice-President of Business Planning and appointed Operations Director.
Dr Rajagopal positions, including Deputy Site Manager and Analysis in the US.
He then joined Thorn was later appointed Managing Director of the Production Manager of the Shell Pernis re nery Lighting as Group Finance Director before Vacuum Technology Division, prior to being in the Netherlands, the largest re nery in working for Borealis as Chief Financial named Chief Executive of BOC Edwards in Europe, and also served as Head of Strategy Of cer and Executive Vice-President of 1998 and Executive Director of the BOC Group for Shell Chemicals.
Dr Schoolenberg is Business Support.
Mr Watson joined Spectris plc in 2000.
He retired from BOC Group plc currently a Non-Executive Director of COVA, plc in 2006 as Chief Financial Of cer.
in 2006. the agency responsible for maintaining the Dutch strategic oil and petrochemical reserves.
46 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy and performance Sustainability Governance 47 Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors Chairman 1 Non-Executive Directors 4 Executive Directors 5 David Meredith FCMA, CGMA 53 Finance Director Committees Risk Management Experience Joined the Group in 1988 as Group Accountant.
Mr Meredith was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 1992.
He trained as an accountant with Redman Heenan International, a specialist engineering group, and was appointed Accountant at their Heenan Drives Limited subsidiary.
Mr Meredith later joined English & American Reinsurance Company where he held finance positions prior to joining the Group.
Neil Daws CEng, FIMechE 50 Nick Anderson BS Civil Engineering, MBA Jay Whalen BA, MBA 56 Executive Director Asia Paci c and Supply 52 Executive Director EMEA Executive Director Committees Committees Committees Risk Management Risk Management Risk Management Experience Experience Experience Joined the Group in the UK in 1978.
Mr Daws Joined the Group in 2011 as Director EMEA for Joined the Group in 1991 as President of has wide manufacturing experience within the the Groups steam specialties business and was Watson Marlow Inc. in the US and was Group, having held positions in production and appointed to the Board in March 2012. appointed to the Board in March 2012. design engineering prior to being named as UK Mr Anderson has wide industry experience and Mr Whalen was named Sales and Marketing Supply Director.
Mr Daws was appointed to the worked for several subsidiaries of the Smiths Director of the global Watson-Marlow pump Board in 2003 and is now responsible for Asia Group plc.
Prior to joining Spirax Sarco, he was business in 2002 and in 2010 was appointed Paci c and Supply, including the Companys Vice-President of John Crane Asia Paci c and, to his current position of President, Supply operations in the UK and France, previously, President of John Crane Latin Watson-Marlow Pumps.
Prior to joining together with the Groups health, safety and America based in Miami, Florida.
Mr Anderson Watson-Marlow, Mr Whalen was environmental matters.
also held senior positions with Alcoa Aluminio in Vice-President Operations for Harvard Argentina and the Foseco Minsep Group plc in Apparatus.
Brazil before joining the Smiths Group plc.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
