spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 principal risKs and uncertainties We conduct regular risk reviews to identify the major risks in the business which may affect our operating and financial performance and where possible put in place mechanisms to mitigate them.
Significant risks are reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect the business and the actions described below to mitigate those risks cannot provide absolute assurance that the risk will not occur or adversely affect the operating or financial performance of the Group.
These processes are more fully described in the Directors statement on corporate governance.
The principal risks and uncertainties which the directors believe are currently faced by the Spirent Group are discussed below: riSk anD Potential imPact mitigation actionS macroeconomic and industry sector Spirent is a global business exposed to the current world economic having the ability to adapt to changing market dynamics is key in order conditions.
We are particularly exposed to conditions in the to minimise the effects of adverse economic or sector conditions.
telecommunications sector into which we sell many of our products and Our businesses closely monitor both market and geographic trends services and which has experienced significant downturns in the past.
so that we can respond to changes in demand and are in a position A deterioration in economic or sector conditions may lead to a to take timely actions to protect profitability where possible.
reduction in the level of demand for Spirents products and services In addition, Spirent has a broad product portfolio of innovative test and cause our customers to delay their purchasing decisions.
solutions and a large number of geographically diverse customers.
Although the Eu has taken steps to stabilise the euro there still A component of our strategy is our global reach.
remains significant financial and political uncertainty in the Eurozone, with the potential for a full or partial breakup of the euro.
Spirent is exposed to these factors through its operations in the Eurozone, 11 per cent of Spirents revenue is derived from this region.
however, the economic situation in the Eu, which has been affecting growth rates in this region, may also affect demand globally.
technological change and competition Spirent sells complex solutions in industries that are characterised Developing the Right Solution at the Right Time is a by rapid technological changes.
Keeping at the forefront of these key key component of Spirents strategy.
We always work closely future technologies is critical to our success and to ensure that we with customers and remain focused on their requirements and remain competitive in our markets.
believe we are investing in areas that represent their future.
It is critical that our innovation is directed at the right areas to enable A Portfolio Planning Team is in place which is responsible for Spirent to develop those solutions that our customers need at the reviewing and making investment decisions across Spirents portfolio time when they need them.
If we fail to achieve these objectives our competitive position, We continue to make significant investment in product development.
revenue and operating profits will suffer.
In 2012 our investment was increased by 3 per cent to $86.1 million in order to underpin our organic growth initiatives.
During 2012 we have made organisational changes to further facilitate knowledge of new market areas outside our served market, with individual managers designated responsibility for investigation, review and action plans arising from such initiatives.
30 overview business review governance financial statements riSk anD Potential imPact mitigation actionS reliance on contract manufacturers We use contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a substantial We work closely with our contract manufacturers and maintain a regular amount of our products.
Our major contract manufacturer is located onsite presence.
To minimise the effect on supply that could be caused in Thailand.
by disruption at contract manufacturers there are contingency plans in place to transfer manufacturing to other locations.
Disruption or financial problems of contract manufacturers or limitations in the manufacturing capacity at contract manufacturers could either limit supply or increase our costs.
business continuity risks Operational risks are present in the Groups businesses.
These An important component of Spirents corporate governance risks include the risk of failed internal and external processes and is its integrated risk management strategy and its regular systems, human error and external events, such as a natural disaster.
selfassessment of risks encompassing all business units.
For example a significant portion of our communications operations IT disaster recovery plans are in place for all core business systems.
are located in California which has in the past experienced natural In 2012, the disaster recovery plans were reviewed for each business disasters, including earthquakes and wildfires.
unit to ensure that the wider operations are all fully covered.
In addition, A significant natural disaster could disrupt our ability to conduct the Groups largest manufacturing subcontractor has worldwide business and impact adversely our revenue and operating results.
multiple sites and comprehensive business continuity plans.
retention and recruitment of key staff Spirent is its employees.
So attracting and retaining highly qualified Investing in our people is at the core of our strategy.
We aim to find, and skilled employees is essential in enabling us to deliver on our keep and engage the highest calibre of employees and encourage strategy and to the success of our business.
An environment that fosters innovation and collaboration is critical to Spirents success as We face competition for personnel from other companies and is ensuring our incentive plans are competitive.
organisations and the loss of our key employees, the failure to attract and retain other highly skilled employees, or the failure to adequately At a meeting of the Board in August 2012 we devoted a session plan for succession may impair our ability to run and expand our to succession planning for senior posts in the Company and business effectively.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical and nontechnical staff.
Further information on our employees is provided in the CSR statement on pages 33 and 34. intellectual property Spirents success is dependent in part on proprietary technology We have active intellectual property protection programmes which may be infringed by others inadvertently or otherwise.
in place to obtain appropriate intellectual property protection Protecting our proprietary technology is important to enabling in a cost effective manner.
us to compete successfully in our industry.
There are procedures in the development of new products that Companies in the telecommunications industry often aggressively include consideration of intellectual property rights of third parties.
protect and pursue their intellectual property rights and may assert We also consult internal and external legal counsel experienced infringement claims against Spirent.
Such claims can result in significant in intellectual property matters.
defence costs, and may affect Spirents ability to market its products.
acquisitions A key element of our strategy is to evolve and expand our solutions We carry out rigorous strategic and financial evaluations of all portfolio which may be achieved either organically or through acquisition opportunities.
Detailed financial and commercial due acquisition.
Integration of acquisitions can be a complex process and the results The Board will only authorise transactions after all due diligence has expected from acquisitions may not be achieved due to problems been successfully completed and where the financial hurdles are within encountered in integration, changes in the market conditions or the agreed guidelines.
Integration plans and processes are carefully sometimes deficiencies arising in the due diligence processes.
The Board regularly reviews postacquisition performance.
