30 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Report Risks and uncertainties The Board has a responsibility to govern the Group in the interest of the shareholders.
The Board is responsible for deciding the objectives and the overall strategy for the Group and part of this involves taking risks.
Risks are an inherent part of the business world, so to minimise the effect of potentially damaging effects to the Group, the Board ensures there is a framework of controls and robust procedures which allows risk to be monitored and managed effectively.
The Groups Approach to Risk The Audit Committee assists the Board in fullling its oversight The identication and management of risk is a continuous process, responsibilities, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial and the Groups system of internal controls and the business information to shareholders and the audit process, satisfying itself that continuity programmes are key elements of that.
The Group maintains appropriate systems of internal control and risk management are in a system of controls to manage the business and to protect its assets place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
with the development of contingency plans and rapid response to The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong changing circumstances and does much to mitigate the risks facing operational internal audit services in the Retail division, and there the Group.
The Group continues to invest in people, systems and in are procedures in place in the Brands division to monitor and IT to manage the Groups operations and its nances effectively control licensees.
The auditors attend all meetings of the Audit Committee, save The diagram below details the Groups risk management process for those parts of any meeting when the Committee reviews the performance of the auditors and when the Committee is having separate discussions with the Group Finance Director.
With the exception of Heatons, the Groups only material associate, the Groups system of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed by the Board, the Audit Committee and management.
The Board believes that the Group has maintained throughout the Year and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts an effective embedded system of internal control and has complied with the Turnbull guidance.
The systems of internal control and risk management are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
Risk Policies and Procedures Business plans and budgets for each business include financial and strategic targets against which performance is monitored.
The risks are identied and evaluated Monitoring includes the examination of and changes to rolling annual 2.
Action is taken to manage the risk and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews 3.
The practices are reviewed and monitored to limit the risk of performance.
Executive management in each business within the Group is The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control of responsible for the identication, evaluation and management of expenditure.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Operating The members of the Board and Audit Committee are provided expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for with details of the risks that have been identied and evaluated by such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
Executive management, these are reviewed and monitored.
The Board ensures that the appropriate arrangements are in place under which employees can raise concerns about possible financial or other impropriety which are then appropriately investigated.
31 Eoin Morgan Slazenger Brand Ambassador 32 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Report Risks and uncertainties Continued Principal Risks Affecting The Group The Group has identied the following factors as potential risks to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation of its business.
The Group is however exposed to a wider range of risks than discussed below but these are the principal risks, that have recently been discussed by the Board and Audit Committee and are of primary concern.
Area Risk Mitigation Supply Chain The Group operates internationally so is reliant on the The Group is therefore subject to the risks associated with The Group requires all suppliers to sign up to the Groups successful distribution of goods, from distribution by international trade and transport as well as those relating to Code of Ethics Supply Policy which enables the Group manufacturer to sale in stores.
exposure to different legal and other standards.
to monitor and benchmark the suppliers performance.
It allows the Group to carry out inspections of premises The Group is reliant on manufacturers in developing to ensure compliance with the Groups codes, and for countries as the majority of the Groups products are continuity and quality of supply.
sourced from outside the UK.
Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-UK suppliers, and to the reputation of the Groups brands are managed and mitigated by the implementation of those policies.
Key Suppliers The Group is reliant on a good relationship with its major A failure to replace any of its major manufacturers or The Group follows policies of forging long-term relationships manufacturers, key brands or brand suppliers.
suppliers on commercially reasonable terms could have an with suppliers and of utilising two leading supply chain adverse effect on the Groups business, operating profit or companies to procure much of the Groups own branded overall financial condition.
It may mean that customers shop goods.
This close relationship brings a better understanding elsewhere as stores cannot supply the required product.
of the suppliers resources enabling the Group to react quickly to changes in the international supply market.
Treasury and Financial Risk The Group operates internationally and the majority of The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising The Group seeks to mitigate the expenses and foreign foreign contracts relating to the sourcing of Group branded from various currency exposures and a strengthening of the exchange uctuations by hedging via forward foreign goods are denominated in US dollars and the Euro.
dollar or a weakening of the pound sterling making goods currency contracts which are designated as cash more expensive.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial The Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are and these assets are revalued in accordance with currency denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional movements.
This currency risk is not hedged.
currency as exchange rates move.
The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at oating interest rates linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group is cash generative and is now targeting its debt levels to mitigate any such risk and currently has debt levels of less than 1 x underlying EBITDA.
Credit and Liquidity Risk The Group, primarily the Brands division, provides credit to The Group could have a credit risk if credit evaluations The Groups key suppliers also face credit risk and as such some of its customers.
were not performed on all customers requiring credit over a the Group regularly assesses the viability of its suppliers certain amount.
and ensures there are plans to source from alternative businesses should key suppliers fail.
Funding and liquidity for the Groups operations are The Groups object is to maintain sufficient funding and provided through bank loans, overdrafts and shareholders liquidity for its requirements, but the availability of adequate Rigorous procedures are in place to mitigate this credit risk.
cash resources from bank facilities and achieving continuity The Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to of funding in the current financial climate could be a risk to risk is monitored on an on-going basis.
the Group in future years.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount, and concentration of credit risk is managed.
Investment of cash surplus, borrowings and derivative investments are made through banks and companies which have credit ratings and investment criteria approved by the Board.
The Group mitigates liquidity risk by keeping debt levels low and the current facility has been renewed with a club of 10 banks, thereby spreading the risk.
Investment Risk The Group holds shares in publicly listed companies.
Fluctuations in publicly-listed companies share prices will The Group has chosen to limit further purchases of have a financial impact on the business results.
public-listed company shares in order to reduce the potential risk to the business, although current investments are in known business sectors and are not deemed to be in volatile companies.
33 Area Risk Mitigation Market Forces The sports retail industry is highly competitive and the Competition continues to place pressure on the Groups The Group has a discount pricing policy to help reduce the Group currently competes at international and local levels pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
risk of increased competition in the industry.
with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes who may have competitive advantage, and new competitors may enter the market.
Pensions Some subsidiaries in the Group make contributions to An increase in the schemes funding needs or changes Although the Group is unable to mitigate any change in certain occupational dened benets pension schemes.
to obligations in respect of the schemes could have an legislation regarding contributions, the schemes are adverse impact on its business.
historic and closed to new entrants.
The Group does not intend to enter into any further final salary arrangements going forward.
Operational The Group is reliant on the divisional Head Ofces and the Any disruption to the Head Ofce, the National Distribution The Group has a strong business continuity plan that is National Distribution Centre at Shirebrook operating without Centre and the eet of vehicles might signicantly impact regularly reviewed to address the operational risks.
disruption, along with the uninterrupted running of the the Groups ability to manage its operations, distribute The Board is confident that as far as it is practical the risks Groups eet of vehicles.
products to its stores and maintain its supply chain.
and uncertainties that face the Group are being monitored Any long-term interruption of the Groups IT systems and managed and that where required appropriate action The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from the UK.
would have a significant impact on the Groups operation, is being taken.
particularly in the Retail division.
The Group constantly monitors the business environment Terrorist attacks, armed conicts, government actions or and the nature of the business model allows for the Group adverse weather affecting the road networks within the to act swiftly under extraordinary circumstances.
UK could result in a significant reduction in consumer confidence, which would in turn have an adverse affect on sales in-store.
Legal The Groups trade marks, patents, designs and other The Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, agents and The Group has an in-house legal department which intellectual property rights are central to the value of the distributors are in material compliance with employment, includes both IP lawyers and trade mark attorneys.
The violation, or allegations legal department has specialist experience in trade mark of a violation, of such laws or regulations, by any of the licensing issues and manages the Groups portfolio of trade Groups licensees, suppliers, agents or distributors, could mark registrations, with assistance from a global network of lead to adverse publicity and a decline in public demand counsel providing territory specic advice on local laws and for the Groups products, or require the Group to incur regulations as required.
This in-house expertise is vital in expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and other mitigating any or all such issues.
business arrangements to ensure compliance.
The Group may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce its intellectual property rights and any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources.
Third parties may try to challenge the ownership or counterfeit the Groups intellectual property.
Sales The Groups retail businesses are subject to seasonal Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or temporary Although unable to mitigate environmental conditions the peaks.
The incidence and participation in major sporting severe weather during peak trading seasons could have a Group is able to inuence the retail portfolio and therefore events will have a particular impact on the UK Retail material adverse effect on the Groups businesses.
constantly monitor development of stores and the Group business.
The Group is dependent upon the store portfolio and aims to increase the square footage through viable new consumers spending habits.
By monitoring stock levels correctly through sales forecasting the Group can manage the peaks in demand and trading proles can be predicted.
Consumer The Groups success and sales are dependent, in part, on Adverse publicity concerning any of the Groups brands or The dedicated legal department monitors usage of the the strength and reputation of the brands it sells, and are manufacturers or suppliers could lead to substantial erosion Groups own brands to ensure they are used in the subject to consumers perceptions of the Group and of its in the reputation of, or value associated with the Group.
products, which can fall out of favour.
Environmental The Group is subject to the negative effects Environmental disasters such as volcanic ash clouds The Group constantly updates systems to mitigate any that environmental disasters can have on the and major ooding have highlighted the impossibility of delay or loss of goods in transit or the absence of any business environment.
predicting the extent to which an environmental occurrence employee or large numbers of employees that may or may may affect the business.
not be altered by acts of nature.
