18 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Report our strategy The Groups growth strategy is based on the key principles described in the business model.
Examples of how the growth strategy is implemented so far and the Groups aims for the future are described in the table below.
objective so far what next?
Since 2007 we have owned 25% of Brasher Leisure, trading as The Group continues to enhance its in-store offering with dedicated in-store Sweatshop.
This has enabled us to develop the SheRunsHeRuns areas for specialist product collections.
To date, 50% of our stores have a dedicated SheRunsHeRuns area, and 15% have a Field & Trek product area.
Our newest collaboration with Soccer Scene and The Boot Room is currently in 80% of stores.
In 2011 the Group acquired the Hot Tuna and Firetrap brands, the The Group continue to identify suitable opportunities to expand the acquisitions remaining 50% of No Fear, and created the Premium Lifestyle division by product range and its Premium Lifestyle division.
acquiring Cruise, USC and Van Mildert, then Flannels in 2012.
Since April 2011, UK Retail has opened 12 core stores and closed The Group intends to continue to enhance its varied store portfolio in store 13 core stores.
The Group also opened six and closed three both the UK and overseas.
The Group consistently progresses with portfolio non-core stores.
its strategy to identify partners in new territories while expanding operations in the countries where the Group currently has a presence.
European retail opened nine new stores.
The Group now has stores in Plans are in place to expand International Retail operations into four nine different countries.
more countries in the current financial year.
The Group also completed the acquisition of 32 freehold and leasehold properties for an aggregate consideration of 86.8 million People are at the heart of the success of the Group and to ensure this Due to the success of the first Bonus Share Scheme and to continue people is recognised employees are enrolled into the Bonus Share Scheme.
to encourage and motivate employees, the new 2011 Bonus Share If the Groups targets are achieved, members of the scheme are Scheme has been introduced.
For further information see pages 28 rewarded with shares in the company.
The targets of the 2009 Bonus and 61.
For more information see pages 28 and 61.
Online retail sales currently account for 11.6% of total UK Sports Online revenue continues to be an area of growth and the Group is website Retail revenue.
looking at opportunities to develop this revenue stream further.
The system is built and serviced in-house and the website has benefited from the increase in recognition of the online brand now that 351 stores have the SPORTSDIRECT.
The Groups portfolio includes a wide variety of world-famous sport, The Brands division is closely involved in the development of licensed brands fashion and lifestyle brands.
The Groups Retail division sells products products and monitors licensees and their manufacturers to ensure under these Group brands in its stores, and the Brands division exploits product quality, presentation and consistency with the appropriate the brands through its wholesale and licensing businesses.
The Brands division continues to sponsor a variety of prestigious events and retains a base of globally-recognised, high-prole The wholesale business also wholesales childrenswear and other sportsmen and women.
The licensing business licenses third parties to apply Group-owned brands to non-core products manufactured and The Brands division wholesale business sells the brands core products, distributed by those third parties, and third parties are currently such as Dunlop tennis rackets and Slazenger tennis balls, to wholesale licensed in different product areas in over 100 countries.
customers and distributors throughout the world.
Risk Management Framework The ability to successfully implement the strategy and business model is sometimes hindered by the various risks encountered within the business environment.
The Groups risk management strategy aims to mitigate the principal risks facing the Group and is discussed in Risks and Uncertainties on pages 30 to 33. promote develop invest identify
