SSE Annual Report 2012 66 Risk management continued of a sound and effective system of internal All employees are expected to adhere control ensuring: the provision of quality internal reporting to SSEs code of business practice and to the Audit Committee and other Board Committees by management and to the SSE SET of values Safety, Service, Group Audit: the provision of quality reporting by Efficiency, Sustainability, Excellence the external Auditors to the Audit Committee: and Teamwork which are embedded compliance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control: and in the culture.
compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations: reviews the significant risks identied by of the Management Board.
The risk owner objectives and can provide only reasonable each business unit as well as the mitigating is responsible for ensuring that key controls and not absolute assurance against material action against those risks following review for the risk are in place and operating.
The Internal Control by the Audit Committee: The Group Insurance department facilitated Assurance Process below provides an overview determines the nature and extent of an extensive review of the existing risk of the key committees and related assurance the significant risks it is willing to take activities currently in place within the Group.
in achieving its strategic objectives: management framework.
The output from this review led to guidelines to promote a approves and regularly reviews and consistent categorisation and scoring of All employees are expected to adhere to updates SSEs strategy and business the enterprise risks facing the business.
the Companys code of business practice and development: reviews the financial reporting process and The Large Capital Projects Governance the SSE values Safety, Service, Efficiency, Framework has now been extended to Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork performance through: annual operating all major projects, such as IT, Telecoms which are embedded in the culture.
Their and capital expenditure budgets: monthly and Property.
In October 2011, the consistent application is central to all activities reviews against actual results: analysis of variances: and evaluation of key Management Board established a Major in SSE.
The Teamwork value, the emphasis Projects Standards and Delivery on peoples knowledge rather than status, performance indicators: Committee to oversee all major projects.
and the maintenance of a very experienced receives regular reports from the Chief Cyber information security risk is being team, complemented by the recruitment of Executive, the Finance Director and the addressed with a significant investment additional specialist skills where necessary, are Management Board members: and programme which was approved during all designed to ensure that the risks associated undertakes an annual evaluation of the the year.
with operations are fully understood and Board, its Committees and individual actively managed.
Internal control Company is structured so that the key issues Risk management depends on a strong system are escalated through the management The Management Board: of internal control, which is fundamental to team, ultimately to the Board if appropriate.
monitors operational and financial achieving SSEs strategic objectives.
The Board performance of SSE: is responsible for the overall system of internal The key elements of SSEs internal control develops and implements: SSE strategy: control and risk management, and it either and financial reporting processes are operational plans: policies: procedures: directly, or through its committees, sets summarised below: and budgets: assesses and controls all SSE risks: performance targets and policies for the management of key risks facing SSE.
The system The Board: monitors competitive forces in each area of internal control is designed to manage, rather approves the policies, procedures of operation: than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business and framework for the maintenance receives and reviews reports from its SSE SET of values to manage risk SAFETY SERVICE EFFICIENCY We believe all accidents are We give our customers service We keep things simple, do the work preventable, so we do everything we are proud of and make that adds value and avoid wasting safely and responsibly or not at all.
money, materials, energy or time.
TEAMWORK EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY We support and value our colleagues We strive to get better, smarter and We operate ethically, taking the and enjoy working together as a team more innovative and be the best in long-term view to achieve growth in an open and honest way.
