Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 65 Risk management where available on acceptable terms Risk management model insurances are in place for all relevant major risks, while maintaining an appropriate balance with self insurance where appropriate.
Identify risks Know the key risks Risk monitoring and maintain a Risks are monitored by the relevant business register of them.
units within SSE, with an overview provided by the Group Audit Department for the Audit Committee meetings held in May and Identify impact Monitor and review November of each year.
The Board reviews and likelihood of risks Review and report Look to understand all aspects of risk management and internal keep risk registers and define the key control at least twice a year, usually in March refreshed drivers and impacts and updated.
At its meeting in March for the risks.
2012, the Board held a specic review of the developments within the Company during the year to ensure good risk management is in place: it revisited the approach to risk appetite: and reviewed the management Evaluate risks reporting arrangements to ensure proper and controls Record, prioritise, Understand the key controls are in place.
take action controls relied on to Ensure issues identied manage key risks.
are addressed and In addition to the Board bi-annual risk Know and monitor the improvements measures that indicate reviews, the Board undertook a review of the are made.
the controls are Companys principal risks at its meeting in working.
May 2011 and approved the list of principal Group risks which were referenced in last years Annual Report.
During the year, the Group Audit department carried out over 65 separate audits of Introduction Limited appetite for risk functions, activities and issues managed The Board of SSE acknowledges its clear The Teamwork value, combined with other by SSE, providing senior management with responsibility for risk management.
SSEs factors such as the clear goal of sustained real a robust internal control assurance.
These approach to risk management is that growth in the dividend, means SSE has adopted included environmental audits carried out by any sustainable and successful business a limited appetite for risk.
The appetite varies SSEs Group Environmental Auditor.
Each audit requires clear risk management in all between businesses.
This means that SSEs report included agreed management actions aspects of its activities.
approach in respect of  to improve the overall management of risk.
businesses, which in themselves are lower risk, Group Audit reviews complement the work Equally important for SSE is the belief that risk is more risk averse than is the case in other done by business-specic compliance management is first and foremost an integral market-based activities.
In these areas, such functions in areas such as Safety, Energy Trading, Energy Efficiency, Energy Supply, part of how managers run their activities as electricity generation, SSE might consider every day.
Therefore SSE has focussed on taking on additional risk where the risk is very IT and Customer Service.
looking at each business area individually well understood and can be mitigated and the and putting in place a framework that works potential returns are clearly attractive.
Developments in SSE risk management during the year effectively for that area.
SSE recognises that this is an ongoing process as it needs Some examples of the way in which appetite As part of the SSE approach to risk to react to changes in the risk environment for risk is limited are: management, the Company continues to by constantly revisiting its internal processes.
review and strengthen its internal control This report includes a summary of the energy trading levels of exposure are processes.
Examples of this approach during developments in SSEs approach to risk strictly monitored through risk models 2011 12 are: management during 2011 12. and clear reporting limits: major project construction the Company The top 19 risks reported last year were The need for good risk governance is critical has in place a detailed governance and risk reviewed in detail at the Board meeting in to ensure the overall business model is process for all its large capital projects: May 2011.
At the Management Board risk effective in practice.
Risk management in SSE the Company has a selective and disciplined workshop held in August 2011 these risks is characterised by: the clarity of its financial approach to acquisitions, and sets were modied, and a new risk category, goal: its strategy and business model which demanding hurdle rates for expected returns: management of Joint Ventures, was agreed.
help to limit the value at risk: the culture and in treasury and funding matters, there is a All the top 20 Group risks are actively limited appetite for risk: and its work on risk clear and prudent approach to liquidity levels, monitored and reviewed.
Each principal risk identication and risk management.
and a mix of maturities and currencies: and has an assigned risk owner who is a member
