Risk Management The Group operates an internal risk control system to evaluate and manage risks as described in the section Internal Control on page 49 of this report.
Besides general risk factors, a non-exhaustive summary of specific risks affecting the Groups operations and industry is outlined below.
Consumer Confidence Airport Safety and Security As a key supplier to UK retailers, the Groups revenues are not as There are inherent safety and security risks involved in operating sensitive to general economic and consumer spending an airport.
The airport management and staff are well equipped conditions.
This is because a large proportion of loads carried are to manage fire and other safety and security related risks.
London within the Fast Moving Consumer Goods FMCG sector.
Southend Airport and Carlisle Lake District Airport are regulated by the Civil Aviation Authority and the Department for Transport.
Where volumes decline, the Group operates a fleet financing and recruitment policy which allows it to flex its operations in response to both increases and decreases in demand.
Demand for Integrated and Outsourced Transport and Logistics Seasonality and Abnormal Weather The transport and logistics industry in the UK has seen a general trend towards an increased demand from customers for an Supplying UK retailers, the Groups revenue has been seasonally integrated transport and logistics service from suppliers with linked with its customers, with demand peaking in the summer national and international operations, as opposed to companies months and the build-up to Christmas.
January and February have providing only one service on a limited regional basis.
typically been the slowest trading months.
The Board believes that the Group is well positioned to take The Group has grown non-seasonal business to minimise these advantage of this move towards integrated and outsourced peaks and troughs, but revenues will still flex in response to strong transport and logistics with both national and international or weak retail trading, particularly in the build-up to Christmas.
capabilities, offering a more operationally efficient service.
The ability to flex the fleet in response as outlined above also mitigates this risk.
People Extreme weather, such as high winds and heavy snow, can disrupt the Groups business as the fleet and rail terminals can The strategic and operational management of Stobart Group have difficulty operating.
depends on certain key management personnel.
Management is retained by competitive performance-based remuneration and Government Legislation and Regulation key man insurance policies are in place.
Operating in the transport and distribution sector, the Group is Competition subject to a number of areas of legislation and regulation.
Legislation and regulation in areas such as working time, health The transport and logistics industry remains highly polarised, with and safety, road duties, fuel costs and environment, can have an a large number of small regional operators competing for general impact on a number of operational areas.
Management have transport work and a small number of national and international worked within these constraints through the introduction of businesses capable of offering fully outsourced integrated appropriate systems and controls.
solutions to major UK customers.
The Group is targeting national transport and logistics contracts Information Technology worth in excess of 10m per annum.
However, due to the nature of the innovative cost model, the The Groups business model is dependent on certain information Group will also seek other business to complement its traffic flows systems and externally hosted databases.
These are backed up with a focus on profitability and efficiency.
and the Group has in-house IT services.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 39 Managing Finance Working in close partnership with Chief Financial Officer Ben Whawell, Richard Laycock and Gareth Vaughan are responsible for day-to-day management of Group finances.
Group Financial Controller Richard Laycock, left, joined the company in 2008 from BDO.
In his role he is responsible for the co-ordination and delivery of the Annual Report.
Gareth, right, joined the company in January 2010.
As Group Management Accountant and Financial Analyst he works alongside Richard, delivering the financial reports and projections on which the Board make key decisions.
Nature of Lease Obligations Stobart Group has a number of warehouse and operating depot leases which represent a significant cost commitment and contribute to material fixed costs.
Where possible, Stobart Group sublets facilities in back-to-back arrangements with end customers to minimise financial risk.
The warehouses are predominantly on standard commercial property terms and include periodic upwards-only rent reviews.
Fuel Prices Fuel prices represent a high cost in the Group.
The impact of fuel price movements on financial performance in 2010 2011 and 2011 2012 has been mitigated by the use of fuel price escalators within the majority of customers contracts.
Commercial Property The Group currently holds an interest in a number of commercial property assets.
These properties are subject to the general property market climate.
Some of the values have been substantially written down in previous years following the downturn in the commercial property market.
The Group has seen an increase in value in the properties as a whole during the year.
The commercial property Joint Venture interests had previously been written down to nil.
Acquisitions The enlarged Stobart Group was formed by a merger in September 2007 and has, since then, completed a further seven major acquisitions.
The synergistic benefits from the merger and acquisitions will be derived from successful integration of the various interests.
The Group has adopted detailed integration plans to ensure the integrations are successful.
Capital Expenditure The successful development of the Groups assets at London Southend Airport, Carlisle Lake District Airport, Widnes, the Moneypenny portfolio of properties and the Port of Weston at Runcorn will depend, to an extent, on securing funding for the proposals.
The Group manages its capital and debt and believes it is in a strong position to realise the potential of these assets.
