22 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 6 Risk In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the board understands the need for a robust system of internal control and risk management.
Following a review of risks to the Group, a further assessment of the key risks and uncertainties facing the Group has been undertaken.
This is reviewed on a regular basis at executive committee and board level.
The directors consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties to the Group.
These may not be exhaustive and there might be additional unknown risks that could have an adverse effect on the Group: n External Changing fashion trends Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group may fail to respond The Group may experience The Group will continue to design new in a timely fashion to changes inventory shortages or excesses and innovative products, and will ensure in consumer preferences or, that could result in lost revenue or a high level of market awareness and additionally, fail to anticipate cash and customer goodwill.
understanding of fashion and consumer increased consumer demand for trends by carrying out market research, its products.
brand tracking, visits to trade fairs and product research.
The Group is constantly refreshing and updating its product range and this assists in differentiating the product to meet evolving consumer needs.
The Group bears a risk of unfavourable changes in currency exchanges despite its foreign exchange contracts Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group pays for a large The Groups operating results The Group has a documented foreign proportion of its goods and become unpredictable due to exchange policy and maintains constant receives a proportion of its changes in exchange rates that management oversight, including revenues in foreign currency are outside our control.
monthly board review, of foreign and is potentially vulnerable to exchange exposure and opportunities.
adverse movements in exchange The Groups policy is to hedge these rates.
In particular, euro exchange risks by using forward foreign exchange rates have a potential for greater contracts.
volatility as a result of continuing economic and financial instability within the EU.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 23 6 Risk EU economic and financial conditions Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group expects that the The Groups results can be The Group will continue to monitor and current economic conditions, affected by the impact of assess the status of the EU economic made more uncertain through the economic conditions on consumer and financial environment and potential ongoing debt crisis in the EU, will confidence and buying habits.
mean trading conditions remain extremely challenging.
The Group will implement its strategies to develop and strengthen the Superdry brand globally and therefore reduce dependency on specific markets.
n Internal The significant growth of the Group puts pressure on key resources Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Growth will depend on the ability Failure to manage the pace of The Groups strategic objectives are of the Group to expand operations change effectively could impact reviewed continually for their impact and to develop its supply base, on the Groups financial results.
The process of Group infrastructure and people.
investment in infrastructure is a high priority and recent senior appointments will reduce execution risk.
Business systems changes are not implemented effectively Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Growth will depend on the ability Failure to manage necessary The Group is focused on the of the Group to manage and business change could impact on development of robust planning, effect, significant business change the effectiveness and efficiency of programme and project management programmes.
business operations and on the capabilities and in ensuring it has Groups financial results.
appropriate resource capacity, skills and effective third party relationships to manage and implement change effectively.
The Group may not be able to effectively control and monitor its suppliers to comply with labour, employment and other laws Risk description Potential impact Mitigation While the Group requires There is potential for the Group The Group actively engages and its suppliers to operate in to suffer negative customer expects its supply base to operate compliance with local and and stakeholder sentiment with in accordance with its ethical trading international legislation and with associated impact on customer code of practice.
The Group assesses an internationally accepted code and investor appeal.
the status of operating practices of practice, it may not be able through a schedule of focused audits to control these manufacturers and company visits, where necessary, and so cannot ensure absolute working with suppliers on improvement compliance.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 24 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 6 Risk Business interruption at the Groups distribution centres Risk description Potential impact Mitigation As a major retail and wholesale There is potential for the Group The Group recognises the reliance business, the Group relies on to suffer loss or damage to stock it has on its distribution centres and the effective operation of its holding and disruption to its store has invested in a number of major distribution centres which could be and customer replenishment improvements to protect these disrupted through a major incident capability.
During 2012 the Group placed such as a fire.
its retail distribution requirements under a managed service agreement with a leading dedicated logistics provider.
Where the Group utilises third party storage and logistics services, which will provide some additional contingency, it ensures that standards are appropriate and regularly monitored.
Loss of a key factory or supplier at a critical point in the design and manufacturing process that leaves no time to arrange alternative sources of supply Risk description Potential impact Mitigation As the business grows it is crucial If the Group fails to manage its The Group has a number of longthat a robust, flexible and cost supply base effectively, or events standing and closely monitored effective supply base meets the occur that are outside of its relationships with suppliers with whom Groups needs for volume growth, control, product volume, delivery it continually seeks ways to improve quality, timeliness and accuracy.
and quality issues may arise with capability and in 2012 has further associated reputational damage developed its supply base to build The Group may potentially lose, at within its customer base.
multi-sourcing capability, and reduce a critical time, one or more of its over-reliance on single suppliers and suppliers, through a break down factories.
in the contractual relationship, the supplier being no longer commercially viable, or as the result of a major incident.
The Groups disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group depends on the Should any of these facilities The Group continues to invest in availability of its facilities both be damaged or lost the Groups improving the availability, integrity and in-house and outsourced and ability to trade will be impaired.
confidentiality of its business systems the performance reliability and and has a roadmap for business availability of its information system replacement and updates going technology and communications forward.
The Group requires that third systems.
Any damage or denial parties have robust contingency plans of access to these systems could in place.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 25 6 Risk Loss of key individuals Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The Group will always carry the There could be significant focus The board have made a number of risk of loss of one or more of from investors and stakeholders senior appointments throughout the the executive directors or senior relating to our ability to maintain year, including, most recently the managers.
and expand the brand and Group.
appointment of Susanne Given as COO and Shaun Wills as CFO.
In particular, the loss of Julian Dunkerton and or James Holder, who are both held to be synonymous with the Superdry brand, would potentially be of greater significance.
Breach of intellectual property and counterfeit product Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The retail clothing and fashion Copied or counterfeit Superdry Working with third party services the industry and, in particular, iconic branded products, with inferior Group constantly monitors its supply brands such as Superdry, will quality and design, reach both chain and the global sales of Superdry continually be a target for both existing and future sales territories branded product by unlicensed parties, large and small scale counterfeit with a potential to damage brand taking necessary action to both stop operations.
and where possible take proceedings against them.
Additionally, the Group must Infringement by the Group of third actively monitor and assess its party intellectual property may designs to ensure that it does not result in costly legal proceedings infringe intellectual property of and damages.
21339.04 12 07 2012 Proof 3 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
