Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Principal risks anduncertainties The benets and importance of robust and proactive risk maximising the value to the business of risk management beyond management are clear, with risk management enabling the Group meeting compliance requirements.
toachieve its strategic objectives and protect and enhance our assetsand reputation.
Health and safety Over the last year additional health and safety resource has been Staff safety remains a key priority for Synergy.
We recognise the need introduced and a new Director of Risk Management appointed to to manage safety with a risk-based approach.
Safety policies and risk strengthen the Groups approach to managing risks effectively.
management systems are in place.
Wehave commenced a thorough review and further development Although the Group has had safety standards and procedures ofour risk management systems, to improve global consistency inplace for many years we constantly strive to improve.
The risk andenhance business resilience.
management team, with the support of internal colleagues, has commenced a thorough review of existing safety standards with the Risk management at Synergy Health plc objective of creating consistency across the Group.
These standards The Senior Executive Board SEB has the ultimate responsibility will be supported by revised guidance materials and training.
This responsibility is cascaded into the organisation through the regional and functional leadership teams.
Incidents and claims Risk management supports the Groups vision to build a lasting In spite of the risk management and safety systems that have been reputation and our core values by: developed and deployed, a relatively small number of accidents, incidents and claims are inevitable.
Minor accidents, including slips, building and protecting the Groups reputation by championing trips and falls, cuts and lacerations, are the leading cause of injuries aresponsible approach to business: to employees and the risk management team is continuing to work achieving brand and business resilience supported by effective inclose partnership with the business and our insurers to focus on riskmanagement: practical methods for further reducing this risk.
developing the culture and capability across the Group to manage Risk nancing changing risks and opportunities: and The Groups operations have become increasingly global.
Within ensuring the safety and well being of employees and others who thelast year the Group has embarked on the globalisation of its could be affected by our business activities.
insurance programme with South Africa, China, Malaysia, Thailand, The risk management strategy is to enable and support each facility Netherlands AST, France, the United States and Switzerland being and business function to manage its own risks.
This is accomplished successfully incorporated in to the global programme.
by embedding risk management into the culture of the Group and The Groups insurance programme was renewed on 30 April 2012. translating risk management into operational ownership, dening The globalisation of the programme is nearly complete with the clear responsibilities and measuring risk management performance.
remaining territories Netherlands Linen, Germany and Costa Rica A review of health, safety and risk management systems has been joining the programme at their next renewal date.
The Group completed and a number of enhancements have been proposed.
insurance programme provides greater consistency of insurance The recommended improvements include a new risk management cover as well as supporting cost leadership.
framework, developing risk management information and training platforms, enhancement of global business continuity plans and Bribery Act 2010 strengthening internal assurance processes.
The Group is committed to carrying out our business ethically and Risk management achievements in the last year include: inline with good business practices.
Following the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010, the Group has fully reviewed its Code of Ethics and Globalising the Group insurance programme, achieving consistency within that setting, the policies relating to anti-corruption, gifts and of cover and leveraging scale: corporate hospitality, facilitation payments and political, charitable Implementing global incident and crisis reporting processes: and and sponsorship payments.
Establishing a global work group advising the Group on the safe Bribery Act training has been comprehensively rolled out across the useof ethylene oxide.
UK & Ireland by face-to-face meetings.
Web-based training has been used to deliver the Bribery Act training to the other regions.
Corporate risk management Principal risks and uncertainties Key risks within each business area are managed in a consistent and structured manner and reported at the SEB and the Groups Audit The risk management strategy aims to address the risks and Committee.
Accountability for managing risks rests with the business opportunities associated with the Groups strategic plan.
ofthe ongoing review and enhancement of the Groups risk management systems, a new framework setting out how the Group Corporate risk management provides tools, support and challenge to identies, responds and reports on risk performance was agreed in the leadership teams within the regions and functions in connection March 2012. with managing risk.
Corporate risk management processes are included in an ongoing review with the aims of: This strategy, which follows the broad requirements of ISO 31000 Risk Management Principles and Guidelines, translates the challenging the quality of risks identied: ownership of risks and performance measurement into clear challenging the effectiveness of policies, standards, training and operational objectives.
other controls: challenging the appropriateness of actions to improve the transparency of risk-based decision making: and, Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 23 Business review Principal risks anduncertainties continued The established risk groups continue to support the regular review of Commercial the risks facing each business sector and this collective approach Commodities isalso being developed further to bring global internal expertise The cost of energy and demand for raw materials continue to together by means of technology-based working groups.
The risk increase and are inuenced by geopolitical unrest and natural groups are intended to provide global and regional support on catastrophes.
The economic recession also continues to be operational, project management, quality standards and risk challenging in respect of prices and margins across all business management aspects of the relevant technology by offering sectors and associated logistics services.
acentralrepository of knowledge and best practice.
Mitigation includes energy management programmes and strategic Strategic risk includes, but is not limited to, financial, commercial, commodity procurement in order to ensure continuity of essential reputational, operational, property, people, project and compliance supplies and effective cost management.
Within these broad headings the key risks and controls include: Business retention and expansion Financial Challenging trading conditions, cost cutting in healthcare sectors Acquisition risks andthe ongoing economic recession provide uncertainties but also As the Group continues to grow through acquisition, the risk of opportunities for the Group.
inheriting legacy liabilities and debts remains akey uncertainty.
The risks are mitigated, and associated opportunities optimised, Existing exposures include UK final salary pension scheme bythe Group maintaining effective cost leadership combined with decitsfor the former Shiloh and Vernon Carus parts of our business excellent levels of service and quality.
Cost leadership, service levels and legacy employee compensation claims for noise-induced and quality continue to be key differentiators in the healthcare hearingloss.
marketand the Group continues to attract and retain business.
The risks associated with potential acquisitions are mitigated throughextensive due diligence checks to ensure that opportunities Reputational for strategic growth are balanced against financial risks.
Other Loss of reputation associated mitigation activities have included the closure of the nalsalary pension schemes and proactive identication of Whilst damage to reputation may be considered a consequence of relevantpast insurers in order to effectively manage legacy other risks materialising, the Group takes the broader view that brand employeeliability claims.
Loss of reputation would signicantly impact on the Groups ability to retain and grow the business.
Financial control and reporting Mitigation is primarily through maintaining and enhancing the Global expansion into additional territories and markets increases the Groupsexisting good reputation through our commitment to being need for robust financial control and reporting.
Regional tax regimes aresponsible and ethical business.
Protecting the brand in the event and currency markets present additional complexities.
Accurate ofa crisis is reliant on robust crisis response and business continuity financial reporting, in line with Group requirements, is essential to planning: the global crisis response plan has been reviewed in the ensuring that financial performance and long-term shareholder value year, and business continuity plans will be subject to detailed review remain on track.
Mitigation is primarily based on ensuring that the Group invests in Operational and retains employees with comprehensive financial and regional experience.
The Groups recruitment and leadership programmes Quality assurance arean important element of recruiting and developing the right talent.
The Group provides services to highly regulated markets, which Local professional advisors who have worked with the Group over operate to a range of internationally recognised quality standards.
anumber of years provide additional assurance that regional Ourbusiness also relies on maintaining the highest level ofquality requirements are fully complied with.
assurance to protect patient safety.
Failing to meet quality standards would have a significant impact on our business andreputation.
As the Group operates in a number of different countries and currencies, it is subject to movements in the exchange rates Mitigation of these risks depends on having clearly established betweena number of different currencies.
The Groups policy is to qualitycontrol processes in place, together with ongoing review ensure that its income statement is not disproportionately impacted andprocedures for implementing corrective actions where issues by such exchange rate movements.
The method used to achieve orimprovements are identied.
The Group has developed a regional thisis toborrow in each major currency in proportion to earnings.
Quality Assurance structure which has been further enhanced this Revaluations of foreign currency loans are hedged through reserves year by the appointment of a global Quality Director.
The Group against the retranslation of the Groups foreign denominated assets.
adopts an approach of continuous improvement of its quality assurance procedures.
Project Olympic has seen the launch of a new global financial system, the implementation of which will continue in 2012 providing enhanced financial reporting and cost leadership.
Business continuity The loss of operational capacity due to the unexpected loss of one or The financial performance of regional business units against the more facilities is potentially significant.
Consequently stakeholders Groups strategic objectives is subject to regular peer review through expectations regarding business continuity planning are increasingly the regional management structure.
critical elements of their assurance and contractual requirements.
24 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Mitigation is achieved through the continual development, review Loss of key person andtesting of business continuity planning.
In addition to meeting Celebrating its 20th anniversary this year, the Group retains much of required safe working, re safety and maintenance requirements, its original purpose and the founder of the Group remains the Group allfacilities have localised emergency response plans in place which Chief Executive officer.
In addition there are a number of other aim to minimise any disruption caused by incidents or plant failures.
individuals who are integral to the business.
The loss of any of these The risk management team is also working in partnership with key people could impact on shareholder value and the future insurers and other partners to review and enhance the Groups success of the business.
business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
Whilst it is difficult to fully mitigate the consequences of losing leaders and others who might be viewed by stakeholders as being essential IT infrastructure to the business, the Group aims to reduce the potential impact on the Information Technology is an integral part of Synergys business Group through succession planning and maintaining a strong senior andoperational systems.
The failure of key IT systems would have management team.
significant impacts on business performance.
There are a number oflegacy and bespoke systems within the Group which have been Project assessed as higher risk in terms of becoming difficult to support Failure to complete projects on time or budget andproviding the required level of consistency and capacity across The success of major projects, for example Project Olympic, the business.
isdeemed critical to meeting the Groups strategic objectives.
Mitigation is being achieved through the new appointment of an Thefailure of a project may have financial, commercial, reputational, ITDirector at the end of 2011 and the implementation of refresh operational and compliance implications.
Poor project planning projects to address the greatest areas of concern.
The key aim of alsoincreases the opportunity for bribery and facilitation payment these projects, which includes the second phase of Project Olympic demands, which pose significant exposure under increasingly strict to migrate applied sterilisation control systems, is to ensure that anti-corruption legislation.
critical systems can be fully supported, are sustainable and provide Mitigation scalability as the business continues to grow.
The projects also offer The risks associated with all major projects need to be clearly added value through improving consistency and cost leadership.
identied and effectively controlled, including comprehensive IT systems and procedures are in place to support business planning and realistic timescales.
The Group applies its established continuity through the secure backing up of data and ensuring risk review processes to all major projects to ensure that risks are information security.
identied, evaluated and reviewed through the life of the project.
Property Compliance Fire safety Changes in legislation The principal property risk is re within linen management facilities.
The Group operates across a number ofterritories with different laws Owing to the abundance of fuel sources, areincident at one of and codes.
In addition regulation, particularly relating to the these sites could quickly escalate to a major conagration leading environment, safety and corporate governance, is subject to change tototal loss of the property and equipment.
with increasingly higher levels of compliance required.
Legislation including the Bribery Act 2010 is introducing higher standards for Mitigation relies on high standards of housekeeping and re global companies and their ofcers.
Keeping pace with, and protection.
The Group has comprehensive re safety procedures understanding, the changing requirements oflocal legislation across andworks closely with the re authorities to identify and control the regions, is essential to achieving compliance.
Mitigation depends on ensuring that the regions have ownership of local compliance supported by risk management oversight, to ensure People that legislative changes are highlighted and effectively implemented.
Loss of critical knowledge The Groups aim is to ensure that its policies and standard operating The Group has built its reputation on providing expertise across a procedures set best practice, thereby ensuring compliance range of specialist outsourced services.
The Group differentiates itself withlegislation.
by offering exceptional support to its customers and this demands that the Group attracts and retains the highest calibre of people Risk management journey and next steps across its businesses.
Although employee turnover is very low, the The changes in risk management at Synergy over the last year are impact of losing knowledge and experience from the Group is still intended to provide a greatly improved, increasingly proactive and considered sufficient for this to remain a keyrisk.
embedded risk management capability across the organisation.
Mitigating this risk through providing an attractive and stimulating We will continue to strive for excellence in risk management and in working environment with opportunities for individuals to grow and the next year our key initiatives are to: develop ensures that the Group is well placed to continue to grow successfully in both existing and new markets.
The Group has develop a framework for risk appetite and define the Groups wellestablished graduate, leadership and personal development riskappetite: programmes and has recently supplemented these with a global develop and implement more consistent safety standards globally: employee performance review system.
implement a risk management assurance process: implement a risk management information and reporting system: and implement a training platform and develop a blended learning offer.
Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 25
