Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 13 Principal risks and uncertainties In common with other organisations, we are while others are particular to our operations.
affected by a number of risks, not all of which Thissection sets out the material risks to the arein our control.
Some risks, such as UK Group and how we seek to mitigate them macroeconomic factors, are likely to affect intheday to day running of our business.
the performance of UK businesses generally, 1 5 Competitive environment Change management Potential impact: Increased competition in the UK Potential impact: We are undertaking a strategic review broadband market may impact financial performance.
of our IT structure and systems in the next financial year.
Disruption to business operations and back ofce functions Mitigation: We regularly monitor the product offerings of key may impact financial performance and our customers.
This results in an ongoing review of the customer proposition and the overall value of our products.
Mitigation: We have aGroup Change Forum comprised of senior managers that isresponsible for centrally monitoring Group wide change.
Teams are established to run the component projects of the overall change, with clear plans in place for each area.
Regular progress 2 reports are provided to ensure key dates are met.
Regulatory environment Potential impact: Changes in regulated prices can signicantly impact the Groups performance.
In particular, demand for bre access could grow signicantly before a wholesale product with acceptable economics is available 6 for the Group to market to customers.
Data integrity and security Mitigation: We actively participate in pricing consultations by Potential impact: Failure to accurately capture and securely Ofcom, including the use of independent experts to provide store customer data could lead to data protection breaches assistance and evidence as required.
The Group is working causing damage to our reputation and fines.
with Openreach to develop bre products that incur lower set Mitigation: The Group continually reviews its data security up and provisioning costs.
There is close liaison with Ofcom to and implements new solutions as they become available.
ensure there is regulatory support for development of bre products suitable for mass-market adoption.
3 7 Regulatory compliance Television Potential impact: Failure to operate effective processes Potential impact: Provision of television services could across the Group may lead to customer churn, and nonbecome a more important driver of competitive advantage compliance with regulatory requirements.
Disruption to inthe broadband market.
business operations and back ofcefunctions may impact Mitigation: The Group is part of the YouView joint venture, financial performance and our customers.
along with the BBC and other parties, which is developing Mitigation: The Groups Compliance Committee regularly atelevision service that includes internet-based catch-up monitors the level and reason for customer complaints.
4 8 Network stability and reliability Key suppliers Potential impact: Failure to provide a stable and reliable Potential impact: Failure of key suppliers could affect the service causes customer churn.
Groups ability to operate its business.
Mitigation: We focus continually on improving network Mitigation: We manage these risks by ensuring we have a resilience and performance, and continue to invest to strong supplier selection process with appropriate ongoing ensure we keep pace with customers growing demands.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
