Business Review Business Review: Risks Tate & Lyle is exposed to a number of risks which might have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance The Board of directors has overall extent deemed appropriate taking account The Groups risk management process responsibility for the Groups system of of costs and benefits.
The output is then continues to follow the Committee of risk management and internal control.
The reviewed by the Board.
Responsibility for Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway schedule of matters reserved to the Board managing each key risk and the associated Commission COSO Enterprise Risk ensures that the directors control, among mitigating controls is allocated to an framework.
The COSO framework provides other matters, all significant strategic, individual executive within each division.
a process to manage the risk of failure to financial and organisational issues.
As part of the process, senior executive achieve business objectives and assurance management formally confirms that these against material loss or misstatement.
key risks are being managed appropriately Approach within their operations and that controls The Groups enterprise-wide risk Key risks have been examined and are effective.
management and reporting process helps Key risks and uncertainties identified as part The confirmations and any exceptions are management to identify, assess, prioritise of the risk management process undertaken discussed at the Audit Committee and and mitigate risk.
The process involves during the year, together with some of the Corporate Responsibility Committee once an ongoing programme of workshops, mitigating actions that we are taking, are a year.
facilitated by the risk management function, set out below.
It is not possible to identify held around the Group.
The risks identified or anticipate every risk that may affect the During the year ended 31 March 2012, the are collated and reported through functional Group.
Our overall success as a global Board of directors and the Group Executive and divisional levels to the Group Executive business depends, in part, upon our ability Committee undertook an exercise to Committee.
This culminates in the to succeed in different economic, social and consider the nature and extent of the identification of the Groups key business, political environments and to manage and Groups risk appetite.
The results of this financial, operational and compliance risks to mitigate these risks.
exercise are used as part of the Groups with associated action plans and controls to strategic planning activities, and in mitigate them where possible and to the considering ongoing mitigating actions.
Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Failure to act The safety of our employees, contractors, Board annual review of Group safety environmental performance policies safely and to suppliers, and the communities in which we Central global function, Group Operational Efficiency and Sustainability, maintain the safe operate is paramount.
We must operate outside business unit control, sets and monitors standards and continuous within local laws, regulations, rules and Health and safety policies and procedures at all facilities with dedicated operation of our ordinances relating to health, safety and the staff to ensure policies are embedded and measured facilities environment, including emissions.
The Annual review of policies and performance by the Corporate operation of plants involves many risks, Responsibility Committee including failure or sub-standard Environmental management systems at production facilities performance of critical equipment: improper Internal global compliance audits on safety and environment performed installation or operation of equipment: failure Business continuity capabilities in place to enable supply, as quickly of a critical supplier: industrial action: and as practicable, of product to customers from alternative sources in the natural disasters.
If these risks cause a event of a natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure backed by temporary or permanent stoppage in appropriate insurance coverage against business interruption production, this could have a material Periodic review of critical supply or supplier dependencies in principal adverse effect on the Group.
Failure to grow in The Groups strategy is to become the Non-core businesses have been sold in order that the Groups resources Speciality Food leading global provider of speciality food and investment growth capital are focused on speciality food ingredients Ingredients ingredients and solutions.
Failure to deliver Three platforms have been established in Innovation and Commercial on this strategy over the longer term would Development sweeteners, texturants and health and wellness to drive impact the Groups credibility and new product development and innovation in speciality food ingredients reputation.
New global Commercial and Food Innovation Centre opened in Chicago to promote closer collaboration with speciality food ingredient customers and to link with the global network of applications and technical services laboratories Investments are being made to increase the Groups sales and technical resources in emerging markets Internal capabilities have been enhanced to help promote growth through acquisition Open Innovation team actively involved in scouting for breakthrough technologies and opportunities across industries and universities Programmes in place to recruit new staff and develop existing staff to upgrade skill sets particularly in customer-facing areas and innovation.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Business Review: Risks Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Failure to identify Falling behind the curve on emerging Innovation and Commercial Development team works closely with important dietary trends and or an inability to customers and advisors to identify emerging trends consumer trends innovate could impact the delivery of the Consumer-facing research to ensure we are aware of consumers and innovate Groups strategy.
This would impact its needs and expectations could impact the performance and reputation.
Global key account managers in place for major customers businesss ability New Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago enables to grow scientists, marketing, sales and technical experts to collaborate more closely with customers and to link with the global network of applications and technical services laboratories Recruitment and training policies in place to strengthen and upgrade staff skill sets.
Failure to maintain The safety of consumers of our products Central global function, Group Operational Efficiency and Sustainability, the quality of our is critical.
Poor quality or sub-standard manages Group-wide quality process and procedures products and high products or poor customer service could Product safety and quality policies and procedures in place to prevent standards of have a negative impact on our reputation contamination customer service and relationships with customers.
Policies and procedures reviewed annually by the Corporate Responsibility Committee Dedicated staff at all locations to ensure policies are embedded and measured Third-party audits completed Internal global compliance audits on food safety undertaken Recall simulation exercises undertaken.
Failure to attract, Performance, knowledge and skills of Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward employees develop and retain employees are central to success.
We must with ability and experience to execute Group strategy key personnel attract, integrate and retain the talent Talent strategy to provide opportunities for employees to develop careers required to fulfil our ambitions and deliver Single global performance appraisal process and system in place.
Inability to retain key knowledge and adequately plan for succession could have a negative impact on Company performance.
Non-compliance The Group operates in diverse markets Changes in law and regulation in such areas as health and safety, with legislation and therefore is exposed to a wide range of environment, quality, food and corporate governance are regularly and regulation legal and regulatory frameworks.
We must monitored and reviewed understand and comply with all applicable Legal teams maintain compliance policies in areas such as antitrust, legislation.
Any breach could have a and anti-corruption laws: and provide ongoing training to employees financial impact and damage our reputation.
External consultants provide quarterly reports on regulatory change.
Fluctuations in Margins may be affected by fluctuations in Strategic relationships with suppliers and trading companies prices, offtake and crop prices due to factors such as harvest Multiple-source supply agreements for key ingredient supplies availability of raw and weather conditions, crop disease, Balanced portfolio of supply and tolling contracts in operation with materials, energy, crop yields, alternative crops and co-product customers to manage balance of raw material prices and product freight and other values.
In some cases, due to the basis sales prices and volume risks operating inputs for pricing in sales contracts, or due to Raw material and energy purchasing policies to provide security of supply competitive markets, we may not be able to Derivatives used where possible to hedge exposure to movements in pass on to customers the full amount of raw future prices of commodities.
material price increases or higher energy, freight or other operating costs.
Failure to protect Our commercial success depends, in part, Group legal department, supported by expert patent lawyers, intellectual on obtaining and maintaining all kinds of monitors all patents property protection including patents for certain Group Intellectual Property IP committee in place, chaired by the products and technology.
President of Innovation and Commercial Development, to oversee the Groups IP management Dedicated Director of IP in place Organised and secure process for identifying and recording innovations, trade secrets and potential patentable ideas.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 28 Business Review Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Competitors may Competitors could introduce a major Teams within the Global Business Units produce innovations in achieve significant technological step change, such as product development, applications, manufacturing technology and advantage through significantly improving the efficiency of customer services technological step a production process and lowering costs Global key account managers in place for major customers change or higher and thereby commoditising products : Open Innovation team actively involved in scouting for breakthrough service levels or introduce a new product with better technologies and opportunities across industries and universities functionality which in turn could lead to Improved customer relationship management capabilities as part a decline in our sales and or profitability.
of the programme to implement a common global IS IT platform We must ensure we exceed or at least and global support services.
match competitors service and quality performance.
Failure to The Group has committed to a programme Dedicated resources allocated to the project implement to transform its operational capabilities, Programme subject to both internal and external audit and review the Groups primarily by implementing a common global Formal steering committee executive management and Board Audit programme to IS IT platform and global support services.
Committee review of project progress against agreed milestones transform its If this programme is not implemented as and timelines.
operational planned, this would have an adverse impact capabilities on the Groups ability to achieve its strategy.
Failure to We must be fully prepared to counter Innovation and Commercial Development and regulatory experts counter negative unexpected unfounded negative publicity substantiate relevant product claims perceptions of the about our products.
Media relations department monitors Group press coverage and has Groups products action plans to deal with any negative publicity Participation in trade organisations and industry-wide initiatives to promote and protect our products.
Failure to manage We must manage our finances within Capital expenditure procedures to control and monitor allocation the balance strictly controlled parameters, particularly and spend sheet, particularly when external financial conditions are All new investments are evaluated against clear strategic and financial during periods uncertain and highly changeable.
The criteria with greater scrutinity and clear execution milestones for of economic change programme currently being approved investments uncertainty, undertaken by the Group consists of a Significant projects approved and monitored by the Board and deliver key number of projects which, if not delivered Dedicated resources allocated to major or key projects projects successfully, could impact the Groups External resources and expertise used where required or as appropriate performance and reputation.
Exposure to liquidity risk is managed by ensuring access is maintained to a wide range of funding sources, and effective management of our cash resources Net debt and working capital levels monitored constantly and reported monthly to the Board.
Failure to maintain Without effective internal financial Policies ensure that key tasks are segregated to safeguard assets an effective controls, we could be exposed to financial Detailed internal finance and capital expenditure manuals set system of internal irregularities and losses from acts which out procedure financial controls could have a significant impact on the ability Full balance-sheet reconciliation process of the business to operate.
We must Group financial performance monitored with monthly Board reports safeguard business assets and ensure and regular forecasting accuracy and reliability of records and Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer undertake detailed quarterly financial reporting.
business and financial reviews Annual review of effectiveness of internal controls Internal audit function provides assurance.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
