Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Chief Executives review continued Principal risks and uncertainties The table below summarises the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
We also maintain a Sustainability and Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Register to monitor other nonfinancial issues that could affect the Group.
More information is available in our Corporate Responsibility Report at plc.
co. uk  CRreports Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2012 Due to economic Effective demand for new Our local teams select the locations and Impact of market We were amongst the first conditions and, in particular, homes below normal levels home designs that best meet the needs in the industry to offer the environment on demand increasing unemployment, could negatively impact on of the local community and customer government-backed consumer confidence both profitability and cash demand in the present and future.
We Ongoing uncertainty in the wider NewBuy scheme when it economy, government austerity remains low.
This would have evaluate new outlet openings on the launched in March 2012 impact on demand for new an adverse effect on return basis of local market conditions and measures, at economic growth and the and we have seen strong potential for increased unemployment homes as individuals are on net operating assets regularly review the pricing and interest in the scheme more cautious about their and net debt.
could suppress demand for housing.
financial future and so less We minimise the level of speculative Responsibility likely to take on major new build that we undertake and strive to t Group Management Team financial commitments t UK Sales Director reduce build costs, while maintaining such as a mortgage.
quality, through operational efficiencies t Regional Sales and Marketing Directors and price reductions.
We continuously look to optimise our marketing Web site to increase the conversion rate of visitors to customers.
The majority of the homes Credit availability remains We use a range of sales incentives like Impact of economic The confidence and that we build are sold to below normal historic levels.
We ability of banks to lend environment on individual purchasers who As a result the level of also offer, on certain sites, the has improved during 2012 mortgage availability take on significant effective demand for new government backed FirstBuy and as concerns regarding the mortgages to finance their homes is below historic NewBuy MI New Home In Scotland Eurozone have eased.
Whilst we have seen further incremental purchases.
In particular the trends, which could products to reduce customer up-front Although in its early stages, improvements in mortgage availability ability of first time buyers negatively impact on both costs and the level of finance required.
the introduction of the during 2012, the restricted availability of and investors to purchase profitability and cash Funding for Lending UK mortgage approvals remains the key We continue to work with the homes has decreased generation.
This would have Scheme FLS by the UK constraint on the UK housing market.
government and with the lenders since the financial downturn an adverse effect on return government also appears in order to further improve Responsibility due to reduced mortgage on net operating assets to be having a positive mortgage availability.
t Group Finance Director availability at the higher loan and net debt.
effect and the introduction t UK Sales Director to value levels and hence of the NewBuy mortgage t Group Treasurer significant deposits scheme has been are required.
Our ability to obtain the Inability to obtain suitable We have responded to the changes Government We have made planning permission consents, or unforeseen in planning policy by developing a significant strides in the regulations and required to develop delays, could impact on the comprehensive community led implementation of our planning policy communities is dependent number or type of homes planning strategy.
This has improved customer and community on our ability to meet the that we are able to build.
communications between our regional engagement planning The introduction of the Localism Act, relevant regulatory and We could also be required businesses, communities and local strategy and have been National Planning Policy Framework and planning requirements.
to fund higher than authorities, enhancing our ability encouraged by the early the Community Infrastructure Levy CIL anticipated levels of planning to deliver developments that meet successes that we have introduced significant change in the The new planning system is obligations, or incur additional local requirements.
still in its infancy so could costs to meet increased result in extended We consult with the UK government We are participating in the Responsibility regulatory requirements.
timescales for gaining on upcoming legislation, both directly local Plans Management t Chief Executive planning consents or The locally produced CIL and indirectly as a member of industry Group PMG via the HBF t UK Land and Planning Director increased legal challenges charge schedules could groups, to highlight potential issues to ensure local plans are t Other members of our senior as the powers within the increase costs and therefore and to understand any proposed robust and CIL charge management team new processes are claried impact on the viability of changes to regulations.
t Managing Directors of our and tested.
All regional businesses increase uncertainty and of these would have a increase the commercial detrimental impact on the risk of projects.
The success of our In addition to the potentially We have a comprehensive health, We continue to compare Site and product safety operations requires a large tragic personal impact of an safety and environmental management favourably to the UK Building sites are inherently number of people, ranging accident on site or after system, which is integral to our construction industry in dangerous places.
Unsafe practices from employees and customer completion, there is business.
This is supported by our terms of site safety.
Having by our employees or sub-contractors sub-contractors to potential for legal proceedings, policies and procedures to ensure that been made aware of an have the potential to cause death customers and their financial penalties, reputational we live up to our intention of providing incident of suspected or serious injury.
families, to visit our sites damage and delay to the a safe and healthy working exposure to carbon each day.
We want all of sites progress.
environment and build houses that monoxide at a property Responsibility these people to go home comply with the required regulations.
with an extended gas ue t Chief Executive at the end of the day safe EGF, we undertook a t Head of Health and Safety All health and safety issues are reviewed and uninjured.
prioritised programme t Every employee and sub-contractor by the Group Management Team and, of inspections at the site, where appropriate, action plans are put as well as extending our in place to rectify any issues.
12 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2012 Land purchasing Land is the major raw Purchasing poor-quality or Our local land teams select and At this point in the material for the Group and mispriced land, or incorrectly appraise each site.
Our appraisal economic cycle we The purchase of land of poor quality, the limited availability of timing land purchases would process ensures each project is continue to see a number at too high a price, or incorrect timing good-quality land at an have a detrimental impact on nancially viable, consistent with our of attractive opportunities of land purchases in relation to the attractive price leads to our profitability and returns.
strategy and appropriately authorised, in the land market.
economic cycle could impact significant competition.
dependent on the proposed scale The purchasing of insufficient The lower level of future profitability.
Purchasing land of the land would reduce the competition from other Responsibility appropriate quality on Groups ability to actively We strive to be the developer of potential purchasers t Group Management Team attractive terms at the right manage its land portfolio, and choice by adopting a comprehensive enables us to acquire t Divisional Managing Directors point in the economic cycle create value for shareholders.
approach encompassing landholders, land at higher than t Regional Managing Directors will enhance the Groups land agents, local councils and normal returns.
t Regional Land and ability to deliver future profit local communities.
Planning Directors growth as housing Our strategic land teams work t Strategic Land Managing Directors markets recover.
alongside regional businesses to identify and secure land with the potential for future development and promote it through the planning system.
Our strategic objective of Continuing economic We have regular meetings with the We have started the Pensions growing net asset value uncertainty could lead to pension trustees to discuss investment process of merging the The volatility of the pension deficit has by 10% per annum on further reductions in the value performance, regulatory changes and two pension schemes the potential to impact on the Groups average through the cycle of scheme assets, further proposals to manage the deficit actively.
in 2013. share price, balance sheet and cash will be impacted by any reductions in the discount We continue to implement the agreed We are also in the process ow.
The current economic uncertainty increase in the pension rate and or increases in investment strategy for the schemes of creating a Pensions is driving discount rate volatility, resulting deficit eroding net asset ination could result through the established joint Funding Partnership PFP in increased liabilities and reduced value delivered through in further increases in to accelerate the timescale investment sub-committee.
investment returns, which have in operational performance.
for reducing the scheme turn led to an increased deficit and deficit.
The creation of the Cash contributed to the Improvements in the the potential for increased deficit pension schemes in order economic environment could PFP will enable the recovery payments.
Company to provide to reduce the deficits is not have a beneficial effect on the Responsibility available to the Company value of assets and reduce funding in the form of t Group Finance Director assets, reducing the level of for operational uses such the level of liabilities.
t Head of Pensions as land spend.
cash contributions required from the Company.
Our value cycle requires Not having the right teams in We monitor employee turnover levels During 2012, we have Ability to attract significant input from skilled place could lead to delays, on a monthly basis and conduct exit conducted our first and retain high-calibre people to deliver quality quality issues, reduced sales interviews, as appropriate, to identify employee survey for a employees homes and communities levels, poor customer care any areas for improvement.
number of years, which for our customers.
has highlighted some areas Recruiting employees with inadequate We benchmark our remuneration for improvement that we skills or in insufficient numbers, or not The challenging market against the industry and have will focus on in 2013. being able to retain key staff with the conditions and changing succession plans in place for key right skills for the future, could have a planning environment have roles within the Group.
We hold We have also introduced detrimental impact on our business.
our Sales Academy meant that the retention of regular development reviews to high-quality trained identify training requirements.
Responsibility employees continues to t Chief Executive be key to achieving our t Group HR Director strategic goals.
t Every employee managing people In order to optimise our If the availability of We maintain regular contact Industry volumes remain Material costs and availability sub-contractors or with suppliers regarding volume subdued, as do markets in build cost efficiency, whilst of sub-contractors retaining the exibility to materials is insufficient to requirements and negotiate contract other economies that have commence work on new meet demand this could pricing and duration as appropriate.
the potential for significant Supply of labour and materials has sites as planning consents lead to increased build demand for construction reduced as industry volumes declined As part of our sub-contractor and local market conditions times, increased costs raw materials.
However, as markets selection process key competencies allow, the vast majority of and, therefore, recover, there will be greater demand and are considered, particularly in We have made further work carried out on site reduced profitability.
competition for key skills and materials relation to health and safety, quality, progress with the is performed by which could lead to increased prices.
Lack of skilled subprevious site performance and introduction of our sub-contractors.
Responsibility contractors could also result financial stability.
standard house types Some sub-contractors in higher levels of waste being and regional cost t Head of Procurement We also work to address the skills t Regional Commercial Directors and suppliers have gone produced from our sites and benchmarking, both shortage in the industry through out of business as a result lower build quality.
of which are delivering apprenticeship schemes and the of the downturn, with increased build efficiency.
others reducing prices to secure orders.
As demand increases, labour and material prices could increase.
