Risk management Risk management is at the heart ofour business and part ofbusiness as usual at all levels.
TelecityGroup risk strategy Principal risks: unmitigated probability & impact The Board considers that the Group should have a low threshold for riskas the nature of its operations are by denition of a high risk nature C. Lease expiration A.
Lack of suitable acquisitions unless properly mitigated through effective design and high operational K. Credit risk B.
All risks are therefore assessed on an unmitigated basis, to match capacity L. Liquidity risk bothin terms of probability and magnitude and the operational and requirements M. Eurozone dissolution financial mitigations applied accordingly.
The importance and probability E. New-build contractors N. Interest rate volatility cause delays assessments indicated herein are therefore the unmitigated gures and O.
Electricity pricing volatility should not be taken as indicating the actual levels of risk following the J.
Acquisitions do not deliver operational and financial mitigations applied by the Group.
expected benets How TelecityGroup manages risk The Groups operations expose it to a variety of risks.
Effective management of these risks is essential to the delivery of the Groups business plans and strategic objectives, as well as maximising D. Over-supply pricing shareholder return.
The Groups approach is geared towards early F. Infrastructure failure identication of key risks, mitigating or removing those risks and G. Environment and regulatory responding quickly and effectively should a risk crystallise.
changes H. Technology changes The Group is committed to the protection of its assets, whether they P. Foreign currency risks bephysical, financial, human or reputational in nature.
Effective risk management assists the Group in delivering its growth strategy, which aims to deliver controlled, sustainable and profitable growth.
Mitigation The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is appropriately managed across the Group.
Lower Higher Business risk management Unmitigated Probability The responsibility for risk identication, analysis, evaluation, mitigation, reporting and monitoring rests with line management.
This responsibility is discharged under the guidance of the Risk Working Group RWG, a committee comprising the executive Directors as well as other senior managers.
The RWG meets regularly to consider all areas of risk to which the Group is exposed and appropriate steps are taken to reduce or eliminate the risks or mitigate their potential impact.
The principal tool used by the RWG to monitor and report risk is the riskregister.
The Group maintains risk registers at a country level, whichconsolidate to form the Group Risk Register.
These registers aresubmitted to the Audit Committee and the Board for review ateachmeeting.
The risks contained in the risk registers are rated as to their probability ofoccurring and potential impact.
Each risk is assigned to an appropriate senior manager.
All current mitigating actions are recorded and any further action required is also documented.
An analysis of our identied principal risks and uncertainties for 2012, which are largely consistent with the prior year, is included on pages30and 31.
28 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Unmitigated Magnitude Lower Higher I n d o e i t n a t i u l c a a v t E i o n M s i i t s i y g l Risk identication, monitoring and reporting framework Board Sets strategic objectives Approves risk governance structure and agrees risk appetite Sets delegation of authority Receives and reviews Group Risk Register Receives and reviews Audit Committee reports on risk governance and internal controls Audit Committee Considers adequacy of risk management and internal control framework Receives and reviews Group and Country Risk Registers Receives and reviews reports from the Risk Working Group Receives and reviews reports from independent assurance providers Risk Working Group Independent assurance Conducts continual review of risks and risk controls Internal audit Concludes on treatment of risks External audit Reviews and reports on risk to the Audit Committee and Board Quality standards audit Insurer and property risk surveyors Business unit Management and employees are responsible for the identication, management and reporting of local risks Maintains local risk registers Implements risk mitigation plans Continuous Risk Process Reporting Identication sources Business units Health and safety audits Fire safety audits Property risk surveys Risk advisors Company secretarial External advisors Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 29 a a t n i o A n
