Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 A number of factors affect the operating results, regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement financial condition and prospects of each of the of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Additional risks businesses in the Travis Perkins Group.
This section and uncertainties that are not presently known to the describes the risk factors that are considered by the Directors, or which they currently deem immaterial, Directors to be material, their potential impacts and the may also have an adverse effect on the Groups operating factors that mitigate them.
However, these should not be results, financial condition or prospects.
RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT RISK MITIGATION DIRECTION Market conditions The Groups products are sold to The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an Adverse tradesmen and retail customers for a assessment of likely competitor activity, market forecasts and possible effect on broad range of end uses in the built future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer financial environment.
The performance of the behaviour.
market is affected by general economic The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead conditions and a number of specific indicators that influence the market for the consumption of building drivers of construction and DIY activity, materials in the UK.
including housing transactions, net Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect disposable income, house price inflation, the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to consumer confidence, interest rates and the Board monthly by the Group Chief Executive.
Competitive pressures Market trends, particularly in respect of Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported Adverse customers preferences for purchasing to the Board each month.
effect on materials through a range of supply We are building our multi-channel capabilities so they compliment our financial channels and not just through our existing operations and provide our customers with the opportunity to results.
traditional competitors may affect the transact with the group as they wish.
Groups performance so making traditional The Group is leading the industry in terms of the development of new branch based operations less relevant.
and innovative supply solutions, and works closely with customers and Public sector buying groups could reduce suppliers on a programme of continuous improvement of current models.
sales if public bodies chose to buy direct We continue to refine our pricing strategies to ensure we retain our from the manufacturers.
Disintermediation may become more of The Groups branding strategy allows it to use sites flexibly.
Alternative a threat if manufacturers decide to deal space utilisation models are possible, including maintaining smaller directly with the end user.
stores and implanting additional services into existing branches.
Information technology The operations of the Group depend The strategic demands of the business, resources available to IT, Adverse on a wide range of complex IT systems performance levels of key systems and IT security are kept under review effect on operating efficiently and effectively.
financial The rapid expansion of the Group together Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going basis to ensure the resilience results.
with an increasing demand for IT services, of group systems, with escalation procedures operating to ensure any Adverse particularly as we embrace modern and performance issues are resolved at an early stage.
Our three data centres effect on the future platforms such as multi-channel, mirror each other with data processing switched from one to the other on Companys could result in development programmes a regular basis.
An IT disaster recovery plan exists and is tested regularly reputation.
together with the business continuity plan with arrangements in place for alternative data sites for both trade and consumer businesses.
Off-site Increasing levels of cyber crime represent back-up routines are in place.
a significant threat with the potential to cause loss of system availability or financial loss.
44 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 RISK DESCRIPTION IMPACT RISK MITIGATION DIRECTION Colleague recruitment, retention and succession Many colleagues have worked for the Group for some The Group Human Resources Director monitors Inability to considerable time during which they have gained valuable staff engagement and turnover by job type and develop and knowledge and expertise.
reports to the Executive Committee regularly execute our and to the Board annually.
Succession plans are The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified development established for the most senior positions within the staff is an important driver of the Groups overall performance.
Group and these are reviewed annually.
Ensuring succession for key positions throughout the Group is Competitive Our reward and recognition systems are actively important if it is to continue to be successful in the future.
managed to ensure high levels of employee Avoiding recession fatigue amongst our key management engagement.
layers and ensuring a continuous flow of innovation in the A wide-range of training programmes are in Group.
place to encourage staff development, whilst management development programmes are used to assist those identified for more senior positions.
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked annually to ensure that the Group remains competitive.
Supplier dependency and direct sourcing The Group is the largest customer of many of its suppliers.
The commercial and financial teams monitor the Adverse In some cases, those suppliers are large enough to cause financial position of the Groups key suppliers.
effect on significant difficulties to the Group if they become unable to Where possible, contracts exist with more than one financial meet their supply obligations.
Alternative sourcing is available, but the volumes required and The Group has made a significant investment in Adverse the time it may take those suppliers to increase production a new Far East infrastructure to support its direct effect on the could result in significant stock-outs for some considerable sourcing operation.
Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the reputation.
We have rapidly expanded our direct sourcing capabilities, factories producing product, the quality and which has increased the Groups reliance on overseas factories suitability of that product before it is shipped to producing product.
This increases the Groups exposure to the UK.
sourcing, quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
Potential for European anti-dumping legislation to be extended to cover further Asian countries so increasing the cost of some imported products.
Defined benefit pension scheme funding The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding All of the Groups final salary pension schemes are Adverse level in relation to its on-going obligations to provide current closed to new members.
effect on and future pensions for members of its pension schemes who For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary financial are entitled to defined benefits.
inflation has been capped at 3% per annum.
Some issues could adversely affect the funding of these The schemes investment policy is kept under obligations including poor performance of the pension fund regular review to ensure asset profiles are kept in investments and increasing longevity of pension scheme line with the profile of liabilities.
The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the benefits promised in the final salary schemes will vary depending upon the funding position of those schemes.
