Directors Report FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts all directors of FTSE 350 companies are subject to re-election at for the year ended 31 December 2012.
The Corporate Governance the Companys Annual General Meeting each year, and therefore statement on pages 57 to 60 forms part of the Directors report.
executive directors, Geoff Cooper and John Carter, and non executive directors Robert Walker, Chris Bunker, John Coleman, Andrew Principal activities Simon and Ruth Anderson will all seek re-election at the Annual Travis Perkins is one of the largest builders merchants and home General Meeting.
Philip Jansen will not seek re-election because as improvement retailers in the UK.
The principal activities of the Group explained on page 58 he will be retiring from the Board at the end of are the sale of timber, building materials, and plumbing and heating the meeting.
products, and the hiring of tools, to the building trade, industry After 22 years in senior finance roles, including the last 17 years generally and the general public, within the United Kingdom.
The as the Companys Group Financial Director, Paul Hampden Smith Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major resigned as a director on 28 February 2013.
He has agreed to continue changes in the Groups activities in the next year.
in our employment until September 2013, to ensure a smooth and complete handover to his successor, Tony Buffin.
Business review The names of the Directors at 31 December 2012, together with A review of the Groups position, developments and future prospects their biographical details are set out on pages 54 and 55.
All of these is contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 18 and 19, the Directors held office throughout the year.
Tony Buffin was appointed Chief Executives review of the year on pages 20 to 28, the Deputy with effect from 8 April 2013.
The executive directors have rolling 12 Chief Executives review of the year on pages 30 to 36 and the Finance month notice periods in their contracts.
The non executive directors Directors review of the year on pages 38 to 43.
A review of the Groups do not have service contracts.
In the light of the formal evaluation of environmental performance is on pages 46 to 49. their performances as a result of the process described on page 58, Robert Walker, Chairman, confirms on behalf of the Board that all Results and dividends directors continue to be effective in, and committed to, their roles.
The Group results for the year ended 31 December 2012 and dividends Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be for the year ending 31 December 2012 are set out on page 82.
If indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect of any approved, the final dividend will be paid on 30 May 2013 to those liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company, or any shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 May 2013. associate company, to the extent the law allows.
In this regard, the Company is required to disclose that under article 140 of the Balance sheet and post balance sheet events Companys Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of The balance sheet on pages 84 and 85 shows the Groups financial an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 position.
No significant events have occurred since the balance against liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties sheet date.
and exercise of their powers.
This indemnity is currently in force.
In addition, if proceedings against directors are instituted subsequent Principal risks and uncertainties to any person acquiring control of the Company, the Company has A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are on pages agreed with each of the Directors that pursuant to article 140 D of 44 and 45. the Companys Articles of Association, the Company shall provide a Director with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet Financial risk management expenditure incurred by that Director in defending any criminal or Details of the Groups approach to capital management and the civil proceedings.
alleviation of risk through the use of financial instruments are A copy of the Companys Articles of Association which contains given in the Finance Directors Review of the Year on pages 38 to this indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys 43.
Specific quantitative information on borrowings and financial registered office during normal business hours and will be available instruments is given in notes 23 and 24 on pages 112 to 118 of the for inspection at and during the period of 30 minutes prior to the annual financial statements.
Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to which the Directors and their interests Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Tony The Company has undertaken to comply with the best practice Buffin will be standing for election by shareholders at the Annual on approval of directors conflicts of interests in accordance with the General Meeting, having been appointed to the Board since the last Companys Articles of Association.
These provisions have operated Annual General Meeting.
The Board believes that Tony Buffins effectively.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a exceptionally strong track record in financial management, corporate situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that finance and in creating and achieving organic growth strategies will conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
greatly benefit the Company, complement the skills of the other The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2012, Board members, and make him an excellent choice as Group Finance including holdings, if any, of spouses and of children aged under 18, Director.
His biographical details are set out on page 54. were as detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires that to 74.
