20 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview What are the risks?
Through this process a Risk Governance Operational Risk Governance strategy is progressively developed and Successful risk management is critical to the Whilst ultimate responsibility for risk refined that best fits the business, its culture, long-term success of our business and a key management rests with the Board, effective capabilities and resource.
The strategy, once area of management focus.
We continue to day-to-day management of risk rests within fully defined and approved by the Board, is strengthen our risk governance framework the business.
Management is responsible for then incorporated into the Groups five year which enables us to understand more fully setting the right tone at the top and plan.
the threats and opportunities in the market establishing a culture where employees are place, to match these against the strengths expected to be risk aware, control minded Risks TO the Strategy: and weaknesses of our Group and respond and to do the right thing.
Having determined the appropriate level accordingly.
Our risk management process, of risk for the business, in relation to the GRMC: The GRMC is a committee of the and the risk software supporting it, helps potential for reward, the Board then ensures Group Management Board GMB comprising to drive clarity, consistency, transparency that risks to the delivery of the strategic the full membership of the GMB supported and accountability at every level of the objectives are identified, assessed and by key members of the risk & control organisation.
It enables us to manage our risk managed effectively.
It is chaired by the Chief exposures across the Group so that, at any Executive and meets four times a year.
While the Nomination Committee ensures an given time, we are incurring the right level The GRMC oversees the risk management optimum balance of skills, knowledge and and the right type of risk to pursue process operating throughout the Group and experience required within the executive effectively our strategic goals.
ensures that the most significant risks to the management team to deliver the strategy, Our Risk Governance Framework Group are identified, debated and managed the Remuneration Committee ensures the appropriately.
Individual members of the Our Risk Governance Framework is set appropriate incentivisation to drive high GRMC are accountable for specific risks on out on page 21 and summarises the various performance with commensurate control.
Risk & Control risk related roles, responsibilities and Business performance relating to the Summaries are presented which set out the relationships throughout the Group.
achievement of strategic, operational and key controls on which reliance is placed and financial objectives is reviewed and further actions as necessary to achieve Strategic Risk Governance monitored closely at Business Review targeted risk level.
These risks, controls and Meetings chaired by the Chief Executive.
Risks OF the Strategy: targets are reviewed and approved at the The Board determines the strategic direction The Audit Committee, on behalf of the GRMC and then communicated top down to of the business and agrees the nature and Board, seeks assurance that the risk the wider business to ensure that risks are extent of the risk it is prepared to take to management process is operating effectively managed within these levels through the achieve its strategic objectives.
throughout the organisation and that risks to organisation.
The Executive Directors in the the delivery of the strategy and long-term GRMC feed back to the full Board the key Effective risk management is dependent viability of the business are being managed risks under consideration for its formal on the capability and commitment of our effectively in line with the risk appetite and review and approval.
The Nomination Committee ensures tolerance levels determined by the Board.
that an appropriate balance of skills, Recognising the speed at which risks can The Audit Committee receives this assurance knowledge and experience exists in the materialise into issues risk velocity and from the three lines of defence Boardroom to understand and manage the impact this can have on the Group, the Management, Group Oversight & Support the risk environment at a strategic level, GRMC has developed tailored response plans Functions and Internal Audit see the Audit providing a culture whereby risks and for each of the Groups key risks.
The GRMC Committee report in the Corporate assumptions are rigorously and freely also recognises the interaction of individual Governance section.
risks and the extent to which individual risks Management: The Audit Committee invites may be offset through natural hedging or To ensure that the strategic direction chosen presentations from management on a amplified through specific risk combinations.
by the business represents the best of the routine basis to understand the key risks strategic options open to it, the Board is Group Capability Committee: The Capability facing their businesses and how these are supported by the Group Strategy function.
Committee supports the risk governance being addressed.
This exists to facilitate and inform the process by assessing the Groups current Group Oversight & Support Functions: process of assessing the risk landscape and capability against its future needs in the The Group Risk Management Committee developing potential strategies to drive achievement of its strategic objectives.
GRMC and Group Risk function present long-term shareholder value.
On an annual on activities relating to risk management Group Investment Committee: The basis it develops an in-depth fact base, in a while the Group Compliance Functions Investment Committee ensures that risk consistent format which outlines the market present on activities relating to the and reward is closely scrutinised prior to any attractiveness, competitive position and establishment of control standards and acquisitions, capital expenditure and major financial performance by Sector and source adherence to them.
These are presented to the full Board by the Executive Directors and time Internal Audit: The Audit Committee Group Cross-Project Review Committee: The set aside in April, July and September to receives assurance from Internal Audit Committee oversees cross-Group projects allow full consideration and debate as to the over the processes and business and ensures that interdependencies and risks level and type of risk that the Board finds transformation initiatives most critical both upside and downside are understood appropriate in the pursuit of enhanced to the Groups continued success.
fully and guidance provided, as appropriate.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21 Strategic overview Risk Governance Framework Board Sets the tone at the top by determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives BOARD Participates actively in the top-down identification, assessment and acceptance of strategic or highly material upside downside risk Sub-Committees a Oversee the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems a b c across the organisation Audit Nomination Remuneration b Ensure an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board Committee Committee Committee to effectively manage the risk environment c Ensure the appropriate incentivisation of the senior executive Group Management Board Sets the tone at the top by the way it manages risk in the day-to-day management of the organisation Ensures the appropriate incentivisation of management in relation to risk and control Sub-Committees GROUP MANAGEMENT BOARD a Ensure investment and major transactions align with the risk tolerances set by the Board b Ensure an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience is available to the organisation c. 1 Set the tone at the top by reinforcing the importance of risk management a b c d throughout the organisation Group Group Group Risk Cross Project c. 2 Actively participate in the identification, assessment and mitigation of risk Investment Capability Management Review Committee Committee Committee Committee where these are significant to the organisation c. 3 Ensure the risk management process applied within each business area is appropriate and aligned to the activities undertaken within that area d Monitor progress on key transformational projects to ensure in line with reported milestones and key risks and issues are mitigated Management Sets the tone at the top by promoting a culture of risk awareness, control focus MANAGEMENT and doing the right thing within the business area Identifies, assesses and manages risk and reports upwards Self certifies mitigating controls and actions and reports upwards Nominated Risk Champions Support Sector and source market management by promoting and implementing c a b Group risk management policy and procedure within the relevant business areas Emerging Mainstream Independent Markets Co-ordinate the bottom-up reporting process through collating risks identified and assessed by management along with associated mitigating controls and actions Group Functions Identify opportunities to further mitigate common Group-wide risks and set required control standards proportionate to risk, communicate and educate management Support management by promoting and implementing Group risk management policy and procedure within the functional area Participate in the bottom-up reporting process through collating risks identified GROUP FUNCTIONS and assessed within the function along with associated mitigating controls and actions and assist in the validation of risks reported by management Group Risk & Control Functions a Develop and implement Group strategy for insurable risk, including placement into the External Insurance market where economically appropriate and provide advice to subsidiary companies on all insurance related matters a b c d Group Group Group Group b Provide fact base and a range of strategic options for Board consideration Insurance Strategy Risk Compliance and decision-making c Provide guidance, support and challenge to management in the development of an effective risk management process and act as a central point for co-ordinating, monitoring and reporting across the Group d Validate management controls and self certification and provide expert guidance on policy setting Independent Assurance INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE Provides independent and objective assessment of the effectiveness of risk management, operational controls and governance processes.
Provides guidance to management on risk and control through ad-hoc consulting a Group Audit Services activities, as required www.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 3RD LINE 2ND LINE OF DEFENCE 1ST LINE OF DEFENCE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE OPERATIONAL GOVERNANCE OF DEFENCE 22 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview What are the risks?
continued Principal risks Risk Descriptions: The nature of the risk is Mitigating Actions: Where mitigating actions Risk Management Process articulated, including the possible causal are required these are also articulated in The Group Risk function supports the GRMC factors that may give rise to the risk detail action plan owner, action task owners, by providing guidance, support and challenge materialising.
This allows the Sectors source initial and revised delivery dates and then to management whilst acting as the central markets and the Group to assess the tracked by the GRMC or Sector source point for co-ordinating, monitoring and interaction of risks and the triggering events market.
reporting on risk across the Group.
before developing appropriate mitigation Review and Approval: It is the responsibility The Group Risk function applies a consistent strategies.
of Sector Boards across the Group and risk methodology across all key areas of the Risk Assessment: Risks are assessed in senior management teams beneath them business.
This is underpinned by the new risk relation to potential impact and likelihood as to review and agree the risk profile for their and control software implemented during measured against predefined financial and area of responsibility, including signing off the year which has reinforced clarity of non-financial criteria relevant to the specific on the effectiveness of controls and the language, visibility of risks, controls and business area.
The current net risk position progression of action plans within agreed actions and accountability of ownership.
which takes into account existing controls delivery timescales.
Risk Identification: On a quarterly basis line is then considered in relation to the risk The Group Risk function consolidates the management closest to the risks identify the appetite and tolerances determined by the Sector source market risk registers and gross risks within their business area in the GRMC, on behalf of the Board.
Where the reports this bottom-up to the GRMC for context of: current risk position is considered too high, review alongside the Groups key risks.
New relative to the targets of the Group, longer-term strategic and emerging risks are added to the Group Risk Profile if management identify mitigating actions to threats: deemed to be of a significant nature so that achieve the target planned risk position.
the ongoing status and the progression of medium-term challenges associated with Mitigating Controls: For the Principal Risks key action plans can be managed in line with business change programmes: reviewed and monitored by the GRMC the Groups targets and expectations.
shorter-term risks triggered by changes in and the next layer of risks reviewed and the external and regulatory environment: monitored at Sector source market level Enhancing Risk Management shorter-term risks in relation to internal the controls on which reliance is placed are Capabilities operations and control.
formally documented by management as As the Groups risk management capabilities required.
These controls are articulated in and governance framework continue to detail control type, control owner, control mature we will further develop and formalise operators, control frequency and are subject our suite of key risk and control indicators so to independent validation by Internal Audit.
that the status of the Groups risks can be managed within justifiable and tolerable levels.
Risk aide memoire Understand Adapt External market strategy Economic Natural Sustainable Consumer Employee environment catastrophes development behaviour relations Differentiated Geopolitical product Competition events Technology innovation Compliance Controlled Counterparty distribution risk Data security Legal action litigation Taxation External Strategic Fuel and Efficiency and regulatory and emerging FX hedging improvements Stable The Changing Enterprise Known New Business interruption Leadership reliability Internal Business and structure operations change Health Change and safety management Talent Customer management Technology satisfaction Resource Recruitment change and skills and retention Liquidity and cash management Reporting Process and control Completeness Integration and effectiveness Budgeting and accuracy synergy delivery and forecasting Control and Manage Internal monitor change www.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 Strategic overview Principal Risk Table Risk Nature and Current category extent of risk mitigation STRATEGIC CONSUMER Context Group-wide PREFERENCES Price, product and social media play a key Our strategy emphasises our vision of being online-driven and ensures we focus on & DESIRES part in the consumers decision-making providing our customers with an easy and inspiring online experience.
Consumers are increasingly turning to develop and enhance the nature and mix of our distribution channels including online to research and book holidays and are increasing our participation in social media according to the preference of our Strategic drivers moving towards booking nearer the time customers encompassing the entire customer journey from dreaming and planning, of travel.
through to experiencing and sharing.
Content Brands & Our direct distribution channels are central Tour Operator Distribution to the Groups continued growth.
We have We have implemented a distribution strategy tailored to the specific customer room to expand these in all our markets Technology preferences and market dynamics of each of our source markets.
We remain focused which will lead to improved margins and on our strategy of controlled distribution through which we will enhance our customer Growth better results.
The core contribution of our access and reduce costs.
Within our Mainstream business we are now leveraging our & Scale direct distribution comes from online new structure to enhance the portfolio of unique and exclusive products which will channels.
increase our competitive advantage, command a premium margin and attract greater customer loyalty.
Within our Specialist business we have developed a strong brand At present we consider ourselves to be an portfolio of tailor-made products and services and will continue to look for specialist online-driven Group, however, we can do innovative products and attractive markets that cater for changing customer needs more.
The online drive continues across the and that will provide future growth.
Group from front-end customer interaction at the time of booking to back office We are in the process of upgrading our web front-end reservation and finance functions.
systems across all source markets within our Mainstream Sector.
These technology upgrades will provide our websites with new search functionalities, improved Risk personalisation and richer content as well as enhanced mobile capability as our We do not respond quickly enough to customers increasingly research and book their holidays on mobile devices.
Our changes in consumer preferences and Specialist businesses have made good progress in consolidating their finance and do not keep up with latest technological reservation systems to leverage our scale across multiple brands and continue on developments.
their journey of standardisation while balancing the varied requirements of the different holiday experiences they offer.
Potential impact Online Accommodation Our market positions come under pressure resulting in lower short to medium-term We have a wide and diverse range of hotel stock and our strategy focuses on growth rates and reduced margins.
increasing this further as we seek to provide our customers with a one-stop-shop for their accommodation needs.
We seek to ensure that both our Accommodation Wholesaler and Accommodation OTA businesses are supported by effective and efficient IT platforms.
Within the Accommodation Wholesaler business our operational systems are being upgraded and updated in order to continue improving service delivery to global customers and in the Accommodation OTA business we have been investing, and continue to invest, in a new platform to support our growth strategy.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 24 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview What are the risks?
continued Principal Risk Table continued Risk Nature and Current category extent of risk mitigation STRATEGIC BUSINESS Context Group-wide IMPROVEMENT The Group is heavily reliant on legacy We have progressed our ambition to strengthen our internal control environment OPPORTUNITIES systems, processes and structures which, through the rollout of the COSO control framework across the Group and we continue in some cases, are outdated, complex and to implement business continuity management in our various businesses in order to inefficient.
build resilience into our operations.
Strategic drivers We continue to drive stronger and more cost-effective relationships with our key We have been successful in implementing Content service providers through better co-ordination of key procurement activities across Group-wide cost efficiency and business the Group, better targeting of prepayments as well as closer scrutiny of the financial Brands & improvement programmes as we have done standing of our key partners and their achievement of required standards of customer Distribution over previous years.
The total savings made service, Health & Safety and sustainable development.
this year of these activities equates to 42m.
Technology The drive for operational efficiency is Tour Operator Growth Group-wide.
We have consolidated our tour operator businesses in French Mainstream to create & Scale a single business and have repositioned our French airline as a scheduled carrier Technology is an integral part of the specialising in long-haul through delivery of the Corsairfly transformation project.
direction we are heading in and as such, in Our strategy within German Mainstream is progressing and starting to deliver growth March 2012, we appointed Mittu Sridhara as through differentiated and exclusive products.
Our focus now is to use our new the Groups Chief Information Officer and Mainstream structure to leverage scale in order to grow and consolidate our leading member of the Group Management Board.
We review continuously areas where the efficiency of our The online drive continues across the Group operations can be improved without compromising on customer experience.
from front-end customer interaction at the time of booking to back office functions.
As mentioned under consumer preferences and desires we are in the process of upgrading our web front-end reservation and finance systems across all source Risk markets with plans progressing well in our key source markets i. e. Germany and UK.
We do not address successfully the legacy This will deliver significant improvement in both the customer booking experience inefficiencies and complexities of our existing and back office process efficiencies and we continue to examine opportunities to infrastructure.
further consolidate in our other source markets.
Online Accommodation Potential Impact Our scale is a key factor in driving our Online Accommodation business and in a We incur higher costs due to inefficiencies, price-driven environment with lower margins high volumes can be leveraged to gain impacting our ability to optimise business competitive advantage.
We are a firm leader in the Accommodation Wholesaler market performance and provide a value added and have a clear strategy of consolidating this position further by continuing to grow service to our consumers.
our existing destinations and accelerating our expansion into new markets.
Within the Accommodation OTA market we are concentrating our growth strategy on attractive emerging markets which exhibit the highest growth potential in this segment.
Our IT transformation programme in both the Accommodation Wholesaler and Accommodation OTA businesses looks to improve overall competitiveness and to facilitate the rapid integration of new brands whether acquired or organically developed.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 Strategic overview Principal Risk Table continued Risk Nature and Current category extent of risk mitigation STRATEGIC continued EMERGING Context Group-wide MARKETS, The Group continues to look into new markets as the traditional We have a team dedicated to exploring and evaluating our ACqUISITIONS & Mainstream markets mature.
Specialist businesses, accommodation strategic options and growth opportunities worldwide through INVESTMENTS online and the Emerging Markets represent a significant opportunity desktop and local research.
to participate in longer-term travel growth trends and have higher Tour Operator Strategic growth potential.
drivers We have established a significant presence in the fast-growing During the year, we consolidated our existing businesses in Russia Content Russian and the CIS markets as part of our longer-term and CIS source market into a single brand TUI featuring all growth strategy and these businesses are now starting to Growth destinations, establishing a strong platform for the future.
We have also launched small tour operating & Scale sector now has close to 600,000 customers, up 15% on prior year.
businesses in the Indian and Chinese markets.
We successfully entered the Brazilian market through the Online Accommodation acquisition of MalaPronta.
We are concentrating our growth strategy on attractive Risk emerging markets which exhibit the highest growth potential in this segment.
AsiaRooms is now an established and growing We do not maximise opportunities to deliver results in Emerging Accommodation OTA brand in the Asia-Pacific region and we Markets because we have limited experience in these markets are expanding further in to the Americas and Asia with our and or we have difficulty in integrating operations and systems.
Potential Impact We recently acquired MalaPronta.
com, Brazils fourth largest Our potential long-term growth rates and margins are impacted accommodation-only OTA which has given us a foothold into with cash flows lower than anticipated and significant absorption the fast-growing and lucrative Latin American LATAM of resource.
We are now concentrating on our expansion into other attractive emerging markets which exhibit high growth potential and are accelerating our expansion plans with particular focus on Asia, Latin America and Africa.
OPERATIONAL GLOBAL Context Group-wide FINANCIAL The cross-border nature of trading exposes our business to fluctuations Our policy is to ensure hedging cover for fuel and foreign currency FACTORS in exchange rates and complex tax laws.
In addition a significant is taken out ahead of source market customer booking profiles in proportion of operating expenses are in relation to aircraft fuel which order to provide certainty of input costs when planning pricing Strategic is also subject to fluctuation.
Pressure in the travel and tourism and and capacity.
drivers banking sectors is set to continue due to the inherent risks within travel We track closely the foreign exchange and fuel markets to Growth and tourism, the Eurozone debt crisis and the introduction of Basel III.
ensure the most up-to-date market intelligence and we monitor & Scale continuously the appropriateness of our hedging policies.
Over the last 12 months, Eurozone countries have had to come to grips with austerity measures placed on them by national We have developed, and continue to maintain, high quality governments, some more severe than others.
We continue to monitor relationships with tax authorities and are in regular the developments across the region and do not expect this to have communication to keep them abreast of the commercial reality a major impact on our business.
The good relationships we have of our business operations.
Where appropriate, we minimise with our suppliers and the flexibility in our business model means uncertainty through recording of provisions to reflect potential we are well positioned to deal with any eventuality.
We review our funding and liquidity position and continue to We have recorded our largest underlying profit figure to date, ensure our key facilities are refinanced well ahead of maturity.
We despite the Eurozone crisis which led to a negative foreign exchange have three main sources of debt funding: including external bank translation.
We reviewed and approved the Groups overall taxation revolving syndicated credit facilities totalling 970m which mature strategy during the year.
This covered the key factors for the Groups in June 2015 and are used to manage the seasonality of the overall tax position and forecasts for the future tax charge and cash Groups cash flows and liquidity, a 350m convertible bond due taxes and we remain satisfied with our funding and liquidity position October 2014 issued in October 2009, and a 400m convertible and have three main sources of long-term debt funding.
bond due April 2017 issued in April 2010.
Risk We have developed, and continue to maintain, high quality We do not manage adequately the volatility of exchange rates and fuel relationships with the Groups key financiers and monitor prices or other rising input costs: we face an increase in tax authorities compliance actively with the covenants contained within our taking a more strident tax approach in order to fund local fiscal deficits financing facilities.
and we face difficulties in securing additional facilities, if needed and at a reasonable cost.
Potential Impact We suffer increased costs which reduce demand resulting in lower revenue and or margins.
We face a negative impact on cash flow, lengthy tax litigation processes and possible reduction in Groups after-tax earnings.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 26 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Strategic overview What are the risks?
continued Principal Risk Table continued Risk Nature and Current category extent of risk mitigation OPERATIONAL continued ECONOMIC Context Group-wide ENVIRONMENT Spending on travel and tourism is discretionary and price We are working across our Mainstream Sector to ensure our unique sensitive.
The economic outlook remains uncertain with different holidays and distribution channels are aligned closely with the aspirations Strategic source markets at different points in the recovery cycle.
and preferences of our customers to drive more benign business drivers Consumers are also waiting longer to book their trips in order conditions see Consumer Preferences & Desires risk.
We also ensure to assess their financial situation.
that we exploit the flexibility and resilience of our business model and the Content functionality of sophisticated capacity and yield management systems to Distribution Whilst the uncertain economic environment has had an effect the fullest extent.
Through their active management we can ensure that on consumer travel spending habits, demand for leisure travel Growth capacity is aligned very closely to forecasts in order to protect margins remains strong.
Within our overall accommodation online business, the model involves minimum commitment or risk and operates extremely Overall, the Group has expanded its unique holidays portfolio well in relation to the latest market.
this is our differentiated and exclusive products combined which books earlier and provides higher margins for our businesses.
We are able to take advantage of our scale and technological developments to offer our customers a wide variety of choice at very competitive prices.
We have the market-leading position in Accommodation Wholesale and continue to invest in our own Accommodation Online Travel Agent OTA business.
Risk We do not respond successfully to changes in consumer demand and or the consumer preference for late booking.
Potential Impact Our short-term growth rates and margins are lower than anticipated.
TALENT Context Group-wide MANAGEMENT The Groups success depends on its ability to retain key We assess continuously our current capability against that required management and it relies on having good relations with its to maximise current and future shareholder value.
We have ensured succession plans are in place for all identified business drivers critical roles, in particular emergency successors for all source market Our results are reflective of our resilient and flexible business People and Sector board roles, and these plans are reviewed every six months.
with the right strategy for the market and a large number of colleagues who care about our customers, who are passionate Our succession planning for senior management appointments was about our leisure travel experiences and can plan, implement reviewed during the year by the Nomination Committee, as was the and deliver growth.
broader issue of talent management across the Group.
Our talent management priorities are overseen on an ongoing basis by Risk the Capability Committee which assesses the strength of the talent pool We are unable to attract and retain talent, build future relative to the needs of the business.
It uses inputs from a number of leadership capability and maintain the commitment and trust sources such as the Group Risk Management Committee to inform those of our employees.
priorities and take the necessary action to deliver the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required to deliver the business strategy.
Potential Impact We use our Group-wide leadership framework to develop and recruit We do not maximise on our operating results and financial all senior roles and to drive high levels of pride and engagement.
This year we conducted competency testing, in conjunction with Korn Ferry, of our key finance management which enabled us to assess the adequacy of the skill-set of individual finance managers as well as the competency of the finance community within key businesses and across the Group as a whole.
We also launched our Finance Academy to drive up levels of financial maturity within our various businesses which has been very well received by our employees.
We continue to invest in international and tailored graduate programmes and more generally in the training and development of our people to ensure they have the right skills.
This is further supported by the introduction of centres of excellence to enable the sharing of best practice so that skills are not limited to one source market.
This year we refreshed the performance and talent management guidelines and have continued to drive high performance and engagement through our performance review, development plans and career planning process.
com TT11 | AR 2012 | 20 12 2012 | Proof 5 Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Strategic overview Principal Risk Table continued Risk Nature and Current category extent of risk mitigation OPERATIONAL continued POLITICAL Context Group-wide VOLATILITy, Providers of holiday and travel services are exposed to the inherent Our business model is based on having a balanced destination NATURAL risk of domestic and or international incidents affecting some of the mix to minimise concentration and having flexible supplier CATASTROPHES countries destinations within its operations.
agreements in order to enable capacity to be switched as AND required.
OUTBREAKS 2012 has been a record year for our business.
We are pleased to be We have strong relationships with local tourism bodies, travel and reporting a 4% increase in underlying operating profit for the full aviation industry associations and monitor actively the political Strategic year to 490m 2011: 471m.
This is even more impressive against situation in volatile destinations and act upon security intelligence drivers a backdrop of global economic uncertainty, political turmoil, weak advice as it is received.
consumer sentiment, the Eurozone crisis and natural catastrophes.
Content We seek continuously to minimise the impact of any negative Growth Risk events in our source markets and destinations should they occur & Scale We are not able to respond efficiently and effectively to large scale by ensuring the effective execution of our established incident events.
management and emergency response plans and the deployment of our experienced leadership teams to support and repatriate Potential Impact stranded customers.
We suffer significant operational disruption in our source markets We promote the benefits of travelling with a recognised and and destinations leading to significant losses holiday cancellations, leading tour operator to increase consumer confidence repatriation of customers and a general decline in consumer demand throughout source markets.
and increase in our insurance premiums.
COMPLIANCE REGULATORy Context Group-wide ENVIRONMENT Industries in which the Group operates are highly regulated, particularly We continue to address issues affecting the industry and our in relation to consumer protection, aviation and the environment.
customers through our skilled public affairs team who work closely Strategic with governments and regulators to ensure our position is As a global organisation, we feel the impact of government drivers communicated clearly and understood.
regulation in all of the markets in which we operate.
Some of our Content We believe we have taken appropriate action and established activities, such as those undertaken by our airline, are heavily Growth appropriate monitoring controls to minimise the impact of the regulated.
Our focus is always to work with governments to bring & Scale recent ruling by the European Court on delayed flights.
forward legislation that is fit for purpose, is no more burdensome on industry than it needs to be and does not discriminate between We are committed to developing more sustainable holidays different business models.
and to reducing the environmental impact at each stage of our customers journey.
We have a dedicated sustainable development Our Sustainable Holidays Plan is a major step forward for TUI team who support the Group and work closely with business Travel in our journey towards providing special travel experiences management see our Sustainable Development section.
whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting the culture and We are focused on delivering our carbon management strategy people in destinations and bringing real economic benefit to local through commitment to reducing TUI Travels airlines per revenue communities.
passenger carbon emissions by 6% by 2013 2014 against a Risk baseline of 2007 08 see our Sustainable Development section.
We do not establish an effective system of internal control to ensure We have submitted TUI Travels annual 2011 airline data, which we operate in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements.
has been externally assured, to the relevant authorities in line with the EU Emission Trading Scheme see our Sustainable Potential Impact Development section.
We suffer negative impact which damages our reputation and incurs Our decentralised structure for Health & Safety management higher costs.
enables our source markets to focus on specific risks in the context of their bespoke operating and legal environments while ensuring appropriate oversight at Group level.
We have rolled out a comprehensive Anti-Bribery & Corruption training programme across the Group in order to raise awareness of the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 with the intent of preventing bribery and corruption in the countries in which we operate.
We monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the procedures and measures established including legal compliance self certification twice a year by our businesses across the Group.
