RISK MANAGEMENT MANAGING RISK TO PROTECT OUR BUSINESS The oil and gas industry is inherently high risk and this requires a dynamic approach to identifying, evaluating and mitigating a broad range of technical and non-technical risks.
Strong and effective risk management is central to how we together with regional business management, of Business run our business.
It supports the achievement of our strategic Unit activities and operational and financial performance.
Risk objectives and protects our business, our people and our identification and progress in implementing risk mitigation are reputation.
It also enables us to safeguard the communities reported regularly to the Board.
In this way, it is clear whether and the environments we work within and to develop long-term risk mitigation has been achieved, is in progress, or whether risk relationships with host governments.
Identifying, understanding has escalated and requires immediate attention.
This validates and mitigating the risks we face, whilst being able to maximise progress being made in mitigating risk throughout the year as the value from business opportunities, supports effective well as identifying new risks and refining mitigation processes in decision making at an asset, business unit, regional and line with changes in the external operating environment.
Responding quickly when risks crystallise this approach ensures that Tullow is actively managing risk in a to mitigate their impact is also a key element of our risk transparent and accountable way.
Tullow has detailed policies, standards, procedures and The Board is collectively responsible for risk management systems in place to support risk management across the and each Executive Director is responsible for designated Group.
These include the Code of Business Conduct, Human risks.
Regional Business Managers and the Business Unit Resources HR and EHS policies, ISO14001 certification of organisations are responsible for managing day-to-day the Groups Environmental Management System, supply chain operations and the safe delivery of the Groups business plan.
management, asset protection standards and processes and Corporate functions are responsible for managing designated crisis management plans.
Monthly Board risk reporting is Group-wide corporate risks and providing oversight, coordinated independently by the Group Internal Audit Manager.
Executive Directors responsibilities Executive Aidan Heavey Graham Martin Paul McDade Angus McCoss Ian Springett Directors Chief Executive General Counsel & Chief Operating Exploration Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Officer Director Officer Direct Other Executive Compliance, Human RBMs, Development Exploration, Investor Relations & reports Directors, External Resources, Legal, & Operations, Geophysical Corporate Communications, Affairs & CSR, Company Secretariat EHS & Security, Technology, Corporate Planning & Africa Advisers Major projects Information Economics, Finance, Systems Internal Audit, Corporate Finance, Treasury & Marketing, Supply Chain, Taxation Risk Strategic risk Bribery & Development & Exploration risk Financial risk management corruption risk Operations risks Political & Information Supply Chain risk social risk Organisational risk EHS & Security risk Security risk Governance & legal risk Risk Executive team Compliance Development & Global Exploration Financial Risk Committee assurance Committee Operations Leadership Team Leadership Team EHS Committee CR External Affairs, People, localisation, EHS Information systems Sustainable supply chain, Responsibilities Stakeholder governance, ethics, management Local content, Crisis management engagement, compliance shareholder relations Social performance 44 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW More information 26 Special feature 74 Corporate responsibility 1 86 Corporate Governance Integrated Governance and Risk framework RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is the overall responsibility of the Board.
Each Executive Director has a defined responsibility and accountability for a specific aspect of the Groups key risks.
The Audit Committee also plays an important role.
REGIONAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS BUSINESS 11 members EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Five Executive Directors DIRECTORS BUSINESS Six non-executive Directors UNITS There are five including Chairman and CORPORATE Executive Directors Senior Independent BUSINESS Director FUNCTIONS BOARD COMMITTEES Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee EHS Committee Board of Directors Regional business management & corporate functions The Board provides oversight of the strategic direction Regional Business Managers and corporate functions of the business and approves the annual budget and provide collective coordination and oversight of the business plan together with risks to delivery and activities of the Business Units and operational defined operational targets.
Key strategic risks and activities of Tullow.
A number of cross-functional opportunities are also collated as part of the Boards committees the GELT, Development & Operations annual review of Group strategy.
Board committees, Leadership Team and Financial Risk Committee including the Audit Committee, Nominations provide integrated assurance over the technical, Committee, Remuneration Committee and EHS commercial and financial risks.
An Information Committee to commence in 2013, play a key role in Systems Leadership Group, Compliance Committee reviewing the effectiveness of Tullows risk management.
and EHS Strategy Group provide oversight of their related risk areas.
On a quarterly basis, Senior Management assess the Groups performance through a series of reviews with the Business Units including Executive Directors an assessment of risks to delivery and measures Each Executive Director has a defined responsibility being implemented to manage these potential risks.
and accountability for specific aspects of the Groups risk management and collectively the Executive are responsible for risk assurance in Tullow.
On a weekly basis Executive Directors meet to discuss key issues Business Units and as required are joined by the Regional Business Risk is managed on a day-to-day basis by Business Managers and key functional managers.
This structure, Unit Managers through in-country operational together with monthly and quarterly reporting, leads monitoring and reporting of asset performance, to an effective two-way exchange of information and operational reviews and audits and cross-functional ensures coordinated decision-making takes place with meetings.
Formal operational reporting is completed a premium placed on risk management.
Updates on weekly with monthly financial reporting to Senior key risks form part of monthly reporting to the Board Management, the Executive and the Board.
Each and Senior Management on the operational and employee is personally responsible for managing financial management of the Group.
risk within the remit of their role.
com 45 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Evolving risk management processes A Compliance Committee was set-up to provide input and Risk management is an action-orientated process which support to Tullows Anti-Bribery and Corruption programme responds to changes in our operating environment and our and to ensure that we continue to develop and maintain business plans.
During 2012 we addressed emerging risks adequate procedures to prevent bribery across all of our in the following ways: locations and operations.
The Committee, which reports to the Board on the status of compliance across the Tullow The Tullow security standard was implemented across Group, is chaired by Graham Martin, General Counsel, and the Group.
This new standard provides consistent terms includes as members Ann Grant, a non-executive Director, of reference for security risk management, baseline the Group Compliance Manager and representatives of performance standards against which to measure Tullows key functions and business units.
In addition, effectiveness of security controls, tools to proactively we have launched the first Code of Business Conduct evaluate emerging threats against a common risk and certification process for all leaders, managers and key response matrix and is compliant with the Voluntary individuals in externally facing roles, across Tullow.
Principles of Security and Human Rights.
The standard The certification process demonstrates our commitment and supporting resources are focused on protecting to the Code of Business Conduct and supports our ongoing Tullows personnel and physical assets in addition to reputation management processes.
maintaining our ability to respond to unplanned events.
Significant improvements were also made to risk EHS risk mitigation and management was enhanced by management processes throughout our supply a number of initiatives during the year, including: chain, including: Re-launch of the Tullow Oil Environmental Standards Updated Group Contract and Procurement Procedures toes.
These standards are designed to deliver consistent with risk management embedded at all stages of the environmental management in our operations around four process enabling each contract to be risk rated: key areas of biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions, resource management and socio-economic performance: Enhanced post contract award procedures with supplier reviews assessing the effectiveness of risk mitigation: Our EHS policy was updated to more closely reflect our current business and focuses on clearly setting out Enhanced due diligence prior to doing business in new expectations of employees and contractors in managing countries or with new suppliers by working closely with EHS risk: Compliance: and Incident reporting capabilities including revised Implementation of a set of standard operating procedures procedures and an update to the investigation manual to manage risk in our logistics operations specifically for and reporting system.
Training was also provided to land transport, aviation and lifting operations in line with support employees involved in reporting and investigating OGP standards.
All of these measures are intended Review and refreshing of our long-term performance risks to to improve the application of lessons learned and to help incorporate new and evolving risks such as supply chain risk us minimise the risks from operational incidents: and and information and cyber security risk.
A Board-level EHS Committee, with non-executive Director Anne Drinkwater as Chair, was approved and will be operational during 2013.
ENSURING Our new country entry process, New country entry is reviewed SUCCESS IN NEW established in 2012, provides and approved by the Board.
a consistent framework for the In 2012, Tullow entered five COUNTRY ENTRIES assessment of all technical new countries.
and non-technical risks and As part of this process we have opportunities for each new developed a robust portfolio business opportunity.
Our database with statistical non-technical risks are those information and insight into the above ground that affect the key strategic areas of interest, project beyond the immediate including the African Rifts and proximity of the wellhead or Atlantic Margins as well as the the seismic line.
They include high latitudes of the Northern Environmental, Social, Health, Atlantic and the Arctic.
Security, Bribery & Corruption, Political, Commercial, Legal and Reputational risks.
46 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW 1 2012 Short-to-medium term risks and uncertainties Each year Tullow identifies a number of key risks and uncertainties with regard to the successful delivery of the Groups business plan.
These short-to-medium term risks are set out in the table below, which indicates both the 2012 risks and performance and the principal risks associated with the 2013 to 2015 business plan period.
To get a more complete view of Tullows risk profile and mitigation processes please read the section on the Groups long-term or evergreen risks on pages 48 to 51 of this report.
2012 key risks and uncertainties Performance during the year Completion of the Ugandan farm-down Farm-down deal completed in February to CNOOC and Total for a total headline consideration followed by delivery of a basin of $2.9 billion.
Tullow, CNOOC and Total have completed their joint conceptual basin development development plan and timely approvals plan that has been presented to the Ugandan Government.
A multi-ministerial committee was for this from the Ugandan authorities established to work with the Operators to support the submission of the Plan of Development PoD.
E&A campaign associated risks Tullow achieved a 74% E&A success rate with new basin opening discovery in Kenya.
Reserves and resources replacement was 358%.
The Group also achieved a strong EHS performance during the year.
Timely remediation of Jubilee production Following start-up of two Jubilee Phase 1A wells and successful acid stimulations, the field 2012 2013 and delivery of Group is currently producing around 110,000 bopd and total well production capacity is now over production targets 120,000 bopd.
2012 Group production at 79,200 boepd was marginally below internal targets.
Government relations stakeholder Significantly enhanced the new country entry non-technical review process and increased engagement with particular reference to resources to support political risk management and social performance capability across the 2012 Board objective to significantly the Group.
improve political and economic risk information and country risk profiling Achieve the appropriate balance between In February 2012, the Groups balance sheet was strengthened through the completion of the cash flow from operations, equity debt Uganda farm-down.
On 31 October 2012, Tullow completed the refinancing of its $3.5 billion market opportunities and portfolio Reserves Based Lending credit facilities, extending final maturity from 2015 to 2019. management activities Manage shareholder expectations, Exploration-led growth strategy reviewed and validated by the Board during the year.
Ongoing and particularly with regard to the Groups structured shareholder meetings throughout the year and following results and announcements.
long-term strategy, production profile Improved business planning tools implemented during the year supporting enhanced financial and funding scenario planning and portfolio management.
Board objective with regard to The Board had a 2012 objective with regard to major corporate risks.
The Board is satisfied that corporate risks appropriate discussion took place in 2012 around the principal corporate risks.
Further information is set out on pages 86 to 87.
2013 Short-to-medium term risks and uncertainties Receive appropriate approvals from Ugandan authorities, followed by commencement of the PoD: Receive TEN PoD approval from the Ghanaian Government and commence development: Successful management and mitigation of above-ground risk given local elections and political uncertainty in key African countries of operations: and Successful delivery of exploration programme and asset monetisation options.
com 47 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE RISKS Our business risk systems, combined with the Boards We have identified a number of evergreen risks to our longerownership of strategic risks, ensures that risk management is term performance and strategic delivery, which are in addition embedded in the business, aligned with our business model and to the shorter and medium-term principal risks that are directly linked to the delivery of the Groups strategic priorities, specifically associated with the delivery of our business plan.
as is clearly demonstrated in the table below.
These risks are We believe these risks could potentially adversely impact our not set out in any order or priority.
They represent the Board and employees, operations, performance and assets.
Each year Managements view of the most material and important risks to we critically review and evaluate the risks Tullow faces and Tullow and as a result they do not comprise all the risks and refresh these to reflect the changes in our business and uncertainties we face.
Strategy fails to meet shareholder objectives Strategic objective Deliver substantial returns to shareholders.
high-grading, strong balance sheet and Executive responsibility Policies and systems financial flexibility, effective communication Aidan Heavey Chief Executive Officer Exploration-led growth strategy, ongoing with all stakeholders, based on open and portfolio management, three-year business Performance indicator transparent dialogue.
plan, active Investor Relations programme, Long-term TSR bi-annual investor survey, annual review of 2012 progress Impact strategic objectives and monthly operational 4, 8 Financial and operating highlights Ineffective or poorly-executed strategy fails and financial reporting.
14 CEOs review to create shareholder value and to meet Mitigation process 35 Key Performance Indicators shareholder expectations, leading to a loss of Clear and consistent strategy execution, investor confidence and a decline in the share high-impact exploration and appraisal price.
This in turn reduces the Groups ability programme, selective development projects, to access finance and increases vulnerability asset monetisation across the value chain, to a hostile takeover.
resource growth, portfolio renewal and Sustained exploration failure Strategic priority 1 Execute selective high-impact exploration and appraisal programmes.
Executive responsibility Policies and systems 2012 progress Angus McCoss Exploration Director Clear exploration strategy based on core 4 Operating highlights campaigns, GELT, competitive capital 10 Portfolio management summary Performance indicators allocation process and annual high-impact 56 Exploration & Appraisal overview Resources growth E&A programme.
Exploration success ratio Mitigation process Portfolio renewal and high-grading Board approved E&A programme.
Monthly Impact reporting to the Board on finding costs per Failure to sustain exploration success is costly boe and high-grading of Groups portfolio, and limits replacement of reserves and with a view to measuring success of resources, which impacts investor confidence exploration spend.
Application of technical in long-term delivery of the Groups excellence and appropriate technologies in exploration-led growth strategy.
48 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW 1 Key operational or development failure Strategic priority 2 Safely manage and deliver all major projects and production operations, increasing cash flow and commercial reserves.
reporting initiated for all projects and Executive responsibility Policies and systems reported on monthly.
Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer Development & Operations Leadership Team, project leadership team, asset specific PoD, 2012 progress Performance indicator EHS systems and policies, Delegation of Operationally-based yearly targets, 58 Development & Operations overview Authority DoA, Code of Business Conduct both base and stretch 60 Operations review and asset delivery risk management.
Impact Mitigation process Operational delivery fails to meet cost and Technical, financial and Board approval schedule budgets or operational objectives, required for all projects, and for all dedicated causing returns to be eroded.
Risk evaluation and progress Insufficient liquidity, inappropriate financial strategy Strategic priority 3 Manage financial and business assets to enhance our portfolio, replenish upside potential and support funding needs.
This scenario, in the cash flow from operations and portfolio Executive responsibility extreme, impacts on the Groups ability to management activity.
Board review and Ian Springett Chief Financial Officer continue as a going concern, or causes a approval of financial strategy.
Short-term Performance indicators breach of bank covenants.
and long-term cash forecasts reported on Operating cash flow a regular basis to Senior Management and Policies and systems Debt profile and capacity the Board.
Strong banking and equity Financial strategy, cash flow forecasting and Gearing relationships maintained.
management and capital allocation processes.
2012 progress Impact Mitigation process Asset performance and excessive leverage 10 Portfolio management summary Prudent approach to debt and equity, with a leads to the Group being unable to meet its 38 Financial review balance maintained through refinancing, Cost and capital discipline Strategic priority 3 Manage financial and business assets to enhance our portfolio, replenish upside potential and support funding needs.
Executive responsibility Impact Mitigation process Ian Springett Chief Financial Officer Ineffective cost control leads to reduced Comprehensive annual budgeting processes margins and profitability, reducing operating covering all expenditure are approved by the Performance indicators cash flow and the ability to fund the business.
Executive management approval is Cash operating costs per boe required for major categories of expenditure, Policies and systems Finding costs per boe and investment and divestment opportunities DoA and budgeting and reporting processes, Capital expenditure and cost are ranked on a consistent basis, resulting in and project approval process for all significant management targets effective management of capital allocation.
2012 progress 38 Financial review Oil and gas price volatility Strategic priority 3 Manage financial and business assets to enhance our portfolio, replenish upside potential and support funding needs.
Executive responsibility Impact Mitigation process Ian Springett Chief Financial Officer Volatility in commodity prices impacts the Hedging strategy agreed by the Board, with Groups revenue streams, with an adverse monthly reporting of hedging activity.
Performance indicator effect on liquidity.
Realised commodity prices 2012 progress Policies and systems 38 Financial review Hedging strategy.
com 49 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Supply chain failure Strategic priority 3 Manage financial and business assets to enhance our portfolio, replenish upside potential and support funding needs.
Strategic priority 5 Achieve strong governance across all Tullow activities and continue to build trust and reputation with all stakeholders.
Comprehensive supplier monitoring Executive responsibility Policies and systems undertaken to ensure that any issues are Ian Springett Chief Financial Officer Group contracting and procurement procedures, identified promptly and rectified to avoid post contract award procedures, market, Performance indicator significant issues.
contract and supplier due diligence and Timely delivery of projects logistics standard operating procedures.
2012 progress Impact Mitigation process 38 Financial review A delay in delivery of products or services Risk assessment and full due diligence of 54 Market overview results in project delivery delays, causing all suppliers carried out prior to award of 81 Sustainable supply chain significant financial penalties and a loss of the contract.
Risk management embedded 82 Local content reputation with stakeholders.
in the Group contracting and procurement procedures at all stages of the process.
EHS failure or security incident Strategic priority 4 Ensure safe people, procedures and operations and minimise environmental impacts.
EHS Executive responsibility Policies and systems management system implemented.
Clear Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer Board-level EHS Committee, Group-wide EHS policies and procedures supported by strong policies, Tullow Oil Environmental Standards Performance indicator leadership accountability and commitment toes, EMS, crisis management procedures, EHS scorecard with nine indicators throughout the organisation.
Tullow Safety EHS Strategy Forum, Tullow Security Impact Rules launched.
Over 100 EHS professionals standard, Occupational Health programme, Major event from drilling or production embedded in the business.
application of the UNs Voluntary Principles operations impacts staff, contractors, of Security and Human Rights VPSHR.
2012 progress communities or the environment, leading Mitigation process 35 Key Performance Indicators to loss of reputation, revenue and or Board-level commitment.
EHS standards set 78 EHS performance shareholder value.
and monitored across the Group through Information and cyber security Strategic priority 5 Achieve strong governance across all Tullow activities and continue to build trust and reputation with all stakeholders.
Monitor, Analyse and Respond methodology Executive responsibility Policies and systems recognises the ever changing threat Angus McCoss Exploration Director Information security policy framework defines landscape that drives investment in structure, risk methodology, levels of activity, Performance indicator next generation technologies.
Prevent cyber attacks 2012 progress Mitigation process Increase in maturity level and reduction Development of an information security The information security strategy integrates in risk profile policy framework: formation of a information, personnel and physical security.
Impact collaborative cross-functional committee A collaborative cross-functional risk group Loss of sensitive proprietary information, and introduction of an Information provides governance and ensures both financial fraud, reduction or halt in production Security Awareness programme.
technical and non-technical solutions are both effective and proportionate.
A Protect, 50 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW 1 Bribery and corruption Strategic priority 5 Achieve strong governance across all Tullow activities and continue to build trust and reputation with all stakeholders.
Executive responsibility Impact Mitigation process Graham Martin General Counsel & Corrupt actions or practices in the Consistent ethical standards established Company Secretary Groups activities leading to prosecutions and applied through the Code of Business or investigations, impacting on the Conduct, and through contract and Performance indicator Groups reputation and leading to loss procurement procedures.
Conduct regular Rollout of the Code of Conduct training of shareholder value.
reviews of compliance requirements together Percentage Code of Conduct certification with periodic Board reporting.
Policies and systems Code of Business Conduct and corporate 2012 progress responsibility policies and systems.
76 Governance Governance and legal risk Strategic priority 5 Achieve strong governance across all Tullow activities and continue to build trust and reputation with all stakeholders.
Executive responsibility Impact Mitigation process Graham Martin General Counsel & Changes to the legal or fiscal regimes or Continuing to engage with all stakeholders Company Secretary contracts: modifications or expropriation can to come to fair outcomes.
Performance indicator 2012 progress TSR performance Policies and systems 76 Governance Stakeholder engagement enhanced: 77 Stakeholder engagement experienced legal and commercial teams: and comprehensive knowledge of contractual regimes and fair practice.
Loss of key staff and succession planning Strategic priority 6 Build a strong unified team with excellent commercial, technical and financial skills and entrepreneurial flair.
Group causes short and medium-term Executive responsibility Mitigation process business disruption.
Inability to recruit Graham Martin General Counsel & Clearly defined people strategy based on for key roles hinders performance.
Company Secretary culture and engagement, talent development and reward and recognition, together with the Policies and systems Performance indicator continuing success of the Group.
HR strategy, localisation, our values, Staff turnover HR function and policies, performance 2012 progress Recruitment for key roles management and training and 35 Key Performance Indicators Impact development.
Talent management 80 Our people The loss of key staff and a lack of internal and external benchmarking.
88 Board objectives succession planning for key roles within the Political and social risk Strategic priority 7 Nurture long-term relationships with local governments, communities and key stakeholders.
and social contexts can lead to insufficient risks and political and social impacts Executive responsibility planning, resourcing and costing of projects.
associated with existing or planned Aidan Heavey Chief Executive Officer operations.
Ensuring that Tullow has Policies and systems Performance indicator appropriate resourcing and competency to Portfolio risk management tool including TSR Performance identify, analyse and advise on political and political and social risks, social performance Impact social risk management.
Social investment standards and management system, issues Changes in political regimes can lead to projects targeted at managing social risks and management plans and host country re-negotiation of licence and agreement at delivering opportunities to maximise our resources including stakeholder and terms or delays in grants of licences and business benefits.
Policy and management community engagement activity.
Erosion of social system for operating in sensitive areas.
Mitigation process licence to operate leading to erosion of value 2012 progress Early identification and ongoing monitoring of projects, possible local disruptions and 74 Corporate responsibility of political and social risks and opportunities.
delays in project schedule and increased Management plans that address business project costs.
Failure to understand political www.
com 51 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 OUR OPERATIONS IN KENYA Tullow discovered oil in this vastly We now have 108 people working in Tullow Team unexplored area in March 2012 with Kenya, of which 86% are nationals.
Yubin Liu the Ngamia-1 well, opening up the A group of 10 Kenyan students were 2.
Sarah Magado Kenyan Rift Basins as a major accepted onto the Tullow Group 3.
Losike Dickson potential oil province.
In order to Scholarship scheme in September 4.
John Carr enter and operate in this new frontier 2012.
They will now study in the UK 5.
Yusef Bwenge area, teams of talented and specialist for oil and gas related qualifications, 6.
Mick McCarthy staff from our offices in Cape Town, to build the capacity needed to 7.
Peter Waweru Dublin, London and Nairobi have develop the oil and gas industry 8.
Ihab Darwish worked together to build our in their home country.
Asim Abdulr ahman Mohamedaltilib 2 OPERATIONS REVIEW 54 Market overview 2012 was framed by uncertainty as the oil and gas industry was influenced by global economic and political environments.
56 Exploration & Appraisal overview Tullows exploration strategy is to explore for light oil in conventional geological plays which can be readily monetised or selectively developed.
58 Development & Operations overview We have a world-class team of highly skilled people that plan and execute our development and production operations.
60 West & North Africa Tullows African production comes from Ghana, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Cte dIvoire, Congo Brazzaville, and Mauritania.
Tullow continues to focus on its production from the Jubilee field and development of the TEN project in Ghana and exploration opportunities in Mauritania and Cte dIvoire.
64 South & East Africa In 2012, Tullow opened its fourth new oil basin in Kenya in the South Lokichar Basin and has continued exploration activity across the 100,000 sq km acreage in Kenya and Ethiopia.
Tullow completed a farm-down of its assets in Uganda in 2012 and continues to work with its partners on the development plans.
68 Europe, South America & Asia Tullow refocused on this region in 2012 with the acquisition of Spring Energy, a Norwegian exploration company, and the intended disposal of its exploration, development and production assets in Asia and the UK and Dutch Southern North Sea.
