Risk management Committed to effective risk management Effective risk management requires collective responsibility and engagement across our organisation.
For this reason, our risk management practices are structured across our governance framework to ensure that the Board, certain Board committees, theSenior Leadership Team, General Managers and Functional Heads are accountable for identifying, mitigating and managing riskin accordance with the responsibilities of their function and their role within our organisation.
RISK MANAGEMENT ACROSS THE BUSINESS BOARD Ultimately responsible for effectiveness of internal control systems defines ABGs risk has overall responsibility approves all key components appetite and tolerance for risk management compliance of risk management and internal control systems EHS&S COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Responsible for environmental, security, Plays a key role in reviewing effectiveness health & safety systems reviews effectiveness of internal control systems reviews all material findings of the internal reviews the effectiveness of ABGs environmental management and external audit functions programmes and systems, security systems, health and approves the annual internal and external audit plan safety systems and social performance reviews effectiveness of financial reporting risk management systems SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM Accountable for the design and implementation of risk management processes and the consistent application of risk management systems GENERAL MANAGERS AND FUNCTIONAL HEADS Ensure risk management compliance is embodied in ABGs culture, practices and operations INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Assists the Board and Management in executing their responsibilities a critical role in advising assists management reviews risk interpretation and producing guidance in conducting risk studies profiles of risk data on risk-related matters 50 www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information practices in Tanzania could produce further adverse effects on the Risk management retention of certain long-term employees.
The successful delivery of ABGs strategy depends on our ability to tolerate and manage risks appropriately in a manner that does not jeopardise the r Political, legal and regulatory developments: we achieved a number interests of our stakeholders.
ofpositive outcomes as regards our operating framework in Tanzania, namely our adoption of an additional voluntary 1% royalty going For this reason, we conduct risk assessments throughout the year as part forward, the renewal of our Special Mining Licences at North Mara and ofbusiness performance and operational reviews, including: the grant of certain PAF permits to support this operation.
However, our ability to progress our government relations strategy over the latter r Quarterly business reviews half of the year was impeded, and in certain instances negatively r Group level risk workshops to consider overall strategic risks to impacted, by the prolonged Offer Period to which ABG was subject.
thebusiness Wehave now resumed efforts in this area, such that our risk outlook for political and regulatory developments currently remains unchanged.
r Operational risk workshops focused on specific operational risks inthecontext of each of our operations r Risks relating to security, trespass and vandalism: we have continued to strengthen our security systems throughout the year and refine our r Functional risk workshops to assess key matters which could affect security plans.
Although we experienced a spike in illegal mining underlying support functions, such as treasury, tax and technical activity and related incidents of trespass during the latter half of the services, required for our long-term business plans year, particularly at North Mara, this has now returned to normalised r Monthly operational and financial performance reporting levels, such that our outlook on security risks remains largely unchanged.
Our annual business plan and budgeting process incorporate risks r Taxation: During the year a revised Finance Act was introduced in identified through the above reviews.
Residual risks are then identified Tanzania that is inconsistent with previous agreements reached between based on the effectiveness of existing controls and mitigating action plans us and the Tanzanian authorities on the treatment of VAT relief.
We prepared for all high impact areas.
When compiled, all risk assessments continue to progress discussions on these inconsistencies in order to are assessed by the Senior Leadership Team in the first instance, the Audit achieve a resolution in line with what we had previously agreed under and EHS&S committees, where relevant, and ultimately form the basis of amemorandum of settlement with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority adetailed Board review.
Further details as regards the outcome of the for the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect Boards internal control and risk management review for the year is of fuel levies and value added tax.
ABGs financial condition may be provided on page 63. adversely affected if we do not achieve a successful resolution to thesediscussions.
2012 Risk Review We have also noted the following as additional risks to the 2012 principal Generally, the overall makeup of our principal risks has not significantly risks table, following certain strategic and operational developments and changed from 2011.
However, during the year there have been changes or continuing developments in the mining industry: incertain risk profiles as a result of developments in our operating environment and continuing uncertainties and trends within the wider r Land acquisitions: due to the potential ramifications of increases in the global economy and or the mining industry.
Where appropriate, risk cost of land acquisitions to support the expansion and continuation of ratings have been reviewed against risk management controls and other our current mining activities and the potential impacts that delays in mitigating factors.
In this regard, we have removed risks relating to health completing such acquisitions may have on our operations, particularly and infectious diseases from the 2012 principal risks table, given that our at North Mara, we have decided to introduce land acquisitions as a controls in these areas continue to mitigate potential impacts of such risks stand-alone principal risk.
In addition: r Changes affecting the majority shareholding: although discussions r Increases in operating costs and capital expenditure: due to continued between Barrick and China National Gold did not ultimately result in industry cost pressures and increased cash costs at our operations, risks any transaction affecting ABG shares, we are mindful of the impact relating to increases in capital expenditure as well as increases in thatuncertainty created in the context of any change in the majority operating costs, principally labour, capital equipment and energy costs, ownership structure could have on ABG and its operations and the remain high.
However, as a result of the ongoing implementation of cost needto flag this risk to our wider stakeholder base.
controls and the intended cost control plans contained within the The following table sets out the principal risks affecting the ABG Group in ongoing Operational Review our overall risk rating for these areas more detail.
In addition to those risks stated, there may be additional risks remains unchanged.
unknown to ABG and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, that r Power supply: we have continued to invest in power generation could turn out to be material to the Group.
These risks, whether they capabilities throughout the year to help mitigate the effects of stoppages materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the and interruptions.
Therefore, although we have continued to experience Groups business and financial results.
In addition, ABG could also be issues in electricity supply during the year as a result of ongoing supply affected by risks relating to the gold mining industry generally and the issues throughout Tanzania, our risk rating as regards interruptions in risks and hazards involved in the business of mining metals, which are key utilities remains unchanged.
Lastly, due to the very nature of risks, mitigating r Recruitment and retention of qualified personnel: as a result of factors stated should not be viewed as assurances that actions taken or continued competition for qualified personnel across the mining planned will be wholly effective.
Additional discussions of certain trends industry and the uncertainty created within our workforce as a result and uncertainties that may affect our operations are provided as part of ofBarricks discussions with China National Gold, we have decided to our Operating review.
maintain a high risk rating for the retention and recruitment of our skilled workforce.
In addition, further developments affecting pension Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Risk management continued Risk Key management responsibility Strategic risks Single country risk All of the ABG Groups revenue is derived from production at its four facilities in Tanzania.
In order to ensure continued growth, the Vice President, Exploration and Group needs to identify new resources and development opportunities through exploration and acquisition targets.
Headof Corporate Development and Investor Relations Reserves and resources estimates The ABG Groups stated mineral reserves and resources are estimates based on a range of assumptions, including geological, metallurgical Chief Operating Officer and and technical factors: there can be no assurance that the anticipated tonnages or grades will be achieved.
VicePresident, Exploration Changes affecting the majority shareholding Members of the Barrick Group hold approximately 74% of the issued share capital of ABG, making Barrick the majority shareholder of Chief Executive Officer the ABG Group.
As a result of this shareholding, Barrick is able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of Directors, the approval of corporate transactions, the issuance of Ordinary Shares and other equity securities and the payment of dividends.
Furthermore, the concentration of ownership may: i delay or deter a change of control of the ABG Group: ii deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of the ABG Group: and iii affect the market price and liquidity of the shares of ABG.
Financial risks Commodity prices The ABG Groups financial performance is highly dependent upon the price of gold and, to a lesser extent, the price of copper and silver.
Chief Financial Officer and The prices of these commodities are affected by a number of factors beyond ABGs control.
Rapid fluctuations in pricing of these Vice President, Finance commodities will have a corresponding impact on ABGs financial position.
Costs and capital expenditure ABG operates a cyclical business where fluctuations in operating cash flow and capital expenditure may adversely affect ABGs financial Chief Financial Officer and position.
In addition, industry cost pressures, notably as regards labour, capital equipment and energy, may affect ABGs cash flow and Vice President, Finance capital expenditure.
External risks Political, legal and regulatory developments The ABG Groups exploration, development and operational activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing various Vice President, Corporate Affairs matters in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Changes to existing law and regulations, or more stringent application or interpretation andGeneral Counsel of current laws and regulations by relevant government authorities, could adversely affect the ABG Groups operations and development projects.
In particular, as ABGs revenue is currently derived exclusively from the production from its facilities in Tanzania, its business operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory changes and developments in Tanzania, or if existing mineral development agreements are not honoured by the Tanzanian government.
The Group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any of its surrounding countries.
Taxation reviews The ABG Groups financial condition may be adversely affected in the event of the introduction of revised royalty or corporate tax Chief Financial Officer and regimes in Tanzania that go beyond agreements reached and contained in ABGs Mineral Development Agreements.
Vice President, Finance ABGs financial condition may also be adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in its current appeals and or discussions with the TRA and or the Ministry of Finance regarding outstanding tax assessments and unresolved tax disputes, particularly as regards the application of VAT relief to the Groups operations.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Potential Change Mitigation comment Progress made in 2012 impact from 2011 Further information ABG assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities to build r Continuing evaluation of corporate High A review of exploration activities on its existing portfolio, including external acquisition and development development opportunities across is set out in the Exploration review opportunities outside Tanzania to maximise growth potential.
the region on pages 28 to 33. r Completion of acquisition of Aviva Mining Kenya Limited ABG management has implemented a number of processes to r Reserves and Resources committee in High Details of the ABG Groups continuously monitor and evaluate the Companys life of mine plans placeto support Senior Leadership Team reserves and resources are set out andproduction targets.
The ABG Groups resources and reserves are andBoard on pages 88 to 91. updatedannually.
ABG follows NI 43-101 of the Canadian Institute of r Commencement of Operational Review, Details of ABGs management Mining Metallurgy and Petroleum when calculating its mineral reserves including review of management processes committees are provided on and resources.
for the monitoring of production targets page 61. and long-term life of mine planning As part of arrangements entered into prior to ABGs IPO, ABG entered r Establishment of temporary Transaction High Further details as regards into agreements with Barrick for the management of relationships committee of the Board in connection with discussions relating to the majority between the ABG Group and the Barrick Group.
Key to this is the the Offer Period applied to the Company in shareholding are provided as part of relationship agreement, the principal purpose of which is to ensure that connection with Barricks discussions with the Chairman and Chief Executive ABG is capable of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick China National Gold Officers statements.
Details Group and that transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group regarding the relationship agreement are conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
are provided within the Corporate governance report on page 63.
ABGs strategic objective is to provide maximum exposure to the price r Entry into hedging facilities for copper, High Further information is set out of gold.
As such, a no-gold-hedging policy has been adopted.
ABG silver and diesel inthe market overview provided has implemented a number of processes to assess its exposure to other as part of the Financial review on commodity price fluctuations.
ABG has also entered into hedging pages 35 to 36. facilities in connection with copper, silver and diesel price fluctuations and is reviewing appropriate hedging facilities to assist in the management of exposure to other commodities.
ABG management continuously monitors operational costs and capital r Availability of revolving credit facility High Further information is set out in expenditure.
It holds a conservative balance sheet and has a rigorous forworking capital purposes the Financial review generally and cash flow planning process to mitigate liquidity risks.
It also has a as part of the Chief Executive r Arrangements in place to hedge South commercial credit facility to support general working capital purposes, Officers statement.
African rand exposure which remains undrawn.
r Completed project financing for Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project The Group assesses legal and political risks as part of its evaluation of r Renewal of Special Mining Licences High Further information is provided potential projects.
It actively monitors legal and political developments atNorth Mara on page 10. in countries in which its existing operations are located.
r Grant of certain waste rock permits atNorth Mara The Group actively engages in dialogue with the Tanzanian government and legal policy makers to discuss all key legal and r Grant of all government approvals for regulatory developments applicable to its operations, in particular Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion Project developments in connection with the Tanzanian Mining Act and applicable environmental legislation.
The ABG Group has entered into a series of ongoing discussions with r Movement to additional voluntary 1% High Further information is provided as the Tanzanian government with the goal of resolving outstanding tax royalty rate part of the Financial review.
disputes and recovering amounts owed and continues to review taxation r Memorandum of Understanding executed matters generally on an ongoing basis.
for the treatment of certain outstanding indirect tax refunds in respect of fuel levies and VAT Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Risk management continued Risk Key management responsibility External risks continued Utilities supply Power stoppages, fluctuations and disruptions in electrical power supply or other utilities could adversely affect Group operations and Chief Executive Officer, impact its financial condition.
In addition, an increase in power costs would make production more costly and alternative power sources Chief Operating Officer may not be available.
and General Managers Community relations A failure to adequately engage or manage relations with local communities and stakeholders could have a direct impact on the ABG Chief Operating Officer, Groups ability to operate at its existing operations.
General Counsel, Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Senior Director for Environment and Community Relations Land acquisitions Progression of the ABG Groups mining activities is, in certain instances, dependent upon the ability of the Group to complete additional Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating land acquisitions required to support current mine plans.
Increases in the cost of land acquisitions required to support the expansion and Officer, Vice President, Corporate Affairs continuation of our current mining activities and or delays in completing such acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on and General Counsel operating conditions, particularly at North Mara.
Operational risks Variations to production and cost estimates The ABG Groups actual production and costs may vary from estimates of future production, cash costs and capital costs for a variety Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial ofreasons, including actual ore mined varying from estimates of grade, tonnage, dilution and metallurgical and other characteristics: Officer, Chief Operating Officer and short-term operating factors relating to ore reserves: revisions to mine plans: risks and hazards associated with mining: natural General Managers phenomena: and unexpected labour shortages or strikes.
Costs of production may also be affected by a variety of factors, including: changing waste-to-ore ratios: ore grade metallurgy: labour costs: the cost of commodities: general inflationary pressures: and currency exchange rates.
Failure to achieve production or cost estimates could have an adverse impact on the ABG Groups future business, cashflows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition.
Loss of critical processes The ABG Groups mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on the continuous availability of its operational Chief Operating Officer infrastructure, in addition to reliable utilities and water supplies and access to roads.
Any failure or unavailability of operational and General Managers infrastructure, for example through equipment failure or disruption, could adversely affect production output and or impact exploration and development activities.
Deficiencies in core supply chain availability could also adversely affect Group operations.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation The ABG Groups activities are subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and chemicals used in its extraction and Chief Operating Officer, Senior Director production methods.
The Group may be liable for losses and costs associated with environmental hazards at its operations, have its for Environment and Community licences and permits withdrawn or suspended as a result of such hazards, or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up and Relations, and General Managers remediation action in respect of environmental hazards and incidents relating to its operations.
Any such action could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, operations and financial condition.
Employee, contractor and industrial relations The ABG Groups business significantly depends upon its ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, in particular members of the Vice President, Senior Leadership Team and its skilled team of engineers and geologists.
The loss of skilled workers and a failure to recruit and train  equivalent replacements may negatively impact on ABGs operations and production.
The ABG Groups business also depends on good relations generally with its employees and employee representative groups, such as trade unions.
A breakdown in these relations could result in a decrease in production levels and or increased costs, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
In addition to employees, ABG depends on certain key contractors.
Interruptions in contracted services could result in production slowdowns and or stoppages.
Security, trespass and vandalism ABG faces certain risks in dealing with trespass, theft, corruption and vandalism at its mines and unauthorised small-scale mining in Chief Operating Officer, General proximity to and on specific areas covered by ABGs exploration and mining licences.
The impact of such risks may have an adverse effect Counsel and Director of Security upon ABGs operations and financial condition.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Potential Change Mitigation comment Progress made in 2012 impact from 2011 Further information Capacity of back-up or alternative power generation at all of our r Continuing upgrades to back-up power High Further information on the status operations has been increased to maintain critical systems.
of power supply is provided as part of the Chief Executive r Ongoing review of alternate power supplies.
Officers statement and the Operating review.
In addition to existing corporate social responsibility programmes, r Development of social management plans High Details of the Groups community the Group is implementing a number of initiatives to improve and for Buzwagi and North Mara.
relations activities and community build on local community relations, and continues to assess and, where investments are set out in the r Progression of funding initiatives under necessary, increase its social management teams capacity generally.
The ABG Group assesses land acquisition requirements as part of its r Establishment of land acquisition High A discussion of land acquisition review of life of mine planning and reviews conducted as part of workinggroup.
requirements in the context regulatory and legal matters.
ofNorth Mara is provided as partofthe Chief Executive Officersstatement.
ABGs management has implemented a number of processes to r Commencement of Operational Review, High Further discussion regarding continuously monitor and evaluate ABGs production and cost including a review of management production and cost estimates estimates and targets.
processes for the monitoring of production andthe objectives of the targets and long-term life of mine planning.
Operational Review is provided aspart of the Chief Executive Officersstatement.
Management assesses the critical components of ABGs operational r Further upgrades to inventory management High Further discussion regarding infrastructure on a continuous basis.
In addition to external resources procedures and critical spares procedures.
inventory movements during the and, when required, ABG has established channels through the support of year are provided as part of the the Barrick Group network to address critical disruptions to its technical Financial and Operating reviews.
Supply chain management and support are assessed and reviewed against business requirements on a regular basis.
The Group has committed itself to the application of global standards r Bulyanhulu re-certification under the High Details of the ABG Groups and implementing relevant International Council on Mining and International Cyanide Code.
environmental activities and Metal practices, and the International Cyanide Code standards.
compliance programmes are r Development of non-mineral waste Compliance with applicable environmental standards is assessed setout in the Corporate management plans.
Remediation and rehabilitation costs are .
r Continuing development of actions for discharge of EPO at North Mara.
ABG regularly assesses its staff recruitment and retention policies to r Continued progression of programmes for High Further details on employment assist with labour stability, and maintains appropriate investment in workforce localisation.
practices and related training and development to safeguard the skills of its workforce.
It is initiatives are provided in the r Further progression of industrial relation also focused on furthering the nationalisation of its workforce in Corporate responsibility section.
Tanzania and participates in a number of training programmes to helpdevelop local industry expertise.
Assessments of employee and keycontractor relationships are undertaken on a regular basis to ensurethat the relevant support balances business requirements and wider expectations.
Measures have been taken to protect employees, mines and production r Further upgrades to security infrastructure.
High Further information on security facilities from various security and theft risks.
Steps include increasing developments and initiatives r Increased training of security existing security personnel, the installation of additional perimeter canbe found in the Corporate personnel across all operations.
fencing, surveillance equipment and the imposition of additional responsibility section.
Where appropriate, the Group r Progression of initiatives launched by continues to work in collaboration with local law enforcement to address Search for Common Ground.
In addition, ABG adheres to the Voluntary Principles as part of its membership of the Barrick Group.
