RISKS Outlook and risks 2013 The following discussion of the risk outlook and our principal risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that reflect Unilevers view of the operating risk environment.
The actual results could differ materially from those projected.
See the Cautionary statement on the inside back cover.
Outlook Market conditions for our business were challenging in 2012 and we do not anticipate this changing significantly in 2013.
Economic pressures are expected to continue.
We expect consumer markets to remain flat to slightly down in developed markets.
In emerging markets consumer demand remains robust but there is nonetheless the risk of modest slowdown in key markets such as China, India and Brazil.
Currency markets remain volatile and uncertain.
Although we have seen rather more stable conditions in key commodity markets in 2012 we remain watchful for further periods of volatility in 2013.
A worsening economic scenario could be triggered by a major Eurozone crisis prompted by countries leaving the euro or by a break-up of the euro leading to significant contraction in financial markets, followed by a severe recession in Europe and knock-on effects globally.
Terrorist activity and political unrest may also result in business interruptions and a decreased demand for our products.
The competitive environment for our business is likely to remain intense in 2013.
Our competitors, both global and local, will continue to shift resources into emerging markets.
We expect continued high levels of competitive challenge to our many category leadership positions.
Some of this may be price based, but we also expect strong innovation based competition.
With the improvements we have been making to our business we are well prepared for these challenges.
In a period of significant uncertainty and downside risk, we believe Unilevers operational and financial flexibility, and speed of response to a fast changing environment are vital assets.
We will continue to focus on our long term strategic priority of driving volume growth ahead of our markets whilst providing a steady improvement in core operating margin and strong cash flow.
We are well placed in emerging markets and we expect these markets to continue to drive growth.
Our portfolio strategy defines the role of our categories and our 2013 outlook fully reflects the choices made.
This gives us confidence that Unilever is fit to win, whatever the circumstances.
Principal risk factors Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties.
The risks that we regard as the most relevant to our business are identified below.
We have also commented on certain mitigating actions that we believe help us to manage these risks.
However, we may not be successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
If the circumstances in these risks occur or are not successfully mitigated, our cashflow, operating results, financial position, business and reputation could be materially adversely affected.
In addition risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from those described below, which may include forward-looking statements, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or be detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Consumer Preference As a branded goods business, Unilevers success depends on We continuously monitor external market trends and collate the value and relevance of our brands and products to consumers consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop across the world and on our ability to innovate.
Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are constantly Our Research and Development function actively searches for changing and Unilevers ability to respond to these changes and ways in which to translate the trends in consumer preference and to continue to differentiate our brands and products is vital to taste into new technologies for incorporation into future products.
Our innovation management process deploys the necessary We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue tools, technologies and resources to convert category strategies to meet the needs of our consumers.
If we are unable to innovate into projects and category plans, develop products and relevant effectively, Unilevers sales or margins could be materially brand communication and successfully roll out new products adversely affected.
36 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Competition The activities of our competitors may adversely impact Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments our business.
which we identify as attractive because we have already built, or are confident that we can build, competitive advantage.
Unilever operates globally in competitive markets where other local, regional and global companies are targeting the same We continue to monitor developments in our markets across consumer base.
the world and to direct our resources accordingly to respond to competitive threats and opportunities.
Our retail customers frequently compete with us through private label offerings.
Industry consolidation amongst our direct competitors and in the retail trade can bring about significant shifts in the competitive landscape.
Increased competition and actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline in Unilevers market share in the affected category, which could adversely affect Unilevers results and hinder its growth potential.
Portfolio Management Unilevers strategic investment choices will determine the Our Compass strategy and our business plans are designed to long-term growth and profits of our business.
ensure that resources are prioritised towards those categories and markets having the greatest long term potential for Unilever.
Unilevers growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of categories, geographies and channels and how these evolve Our acquisition activity is driven by our portfolio strategy with over time.
If Unilever does not make optimal strategic investment a clear, defined evaluation process.
decisions then opportunities for growth and improved margin could be missed.
Sustainability The success of our business depends on finding sustainable The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan sets clear long-term solutions to support long-term growth.
commitments for health and well-being, environmental impact and enhancing livelihoods.
These are underpinned by specific targets in Unilevers vision to double the size of our business while reducing areas such as sustainable sourcing, water usage, waste generation our environmental footprint and increasing our positive social and disposal and greenhouse gas emissions.
These targets are impact will require more sustainable ways of doing business.
This being integrated into Unilevers day-to-day business operations.
means reducing our environmental footprint while increasing the positive social benefits of Unilevers activities.
We are dependent The Unilever Sustainable Development Group, comprising five on the efforts of partners and various certification bodies to external specialists in corporate responsibility and sustainability, achieve our sustainability goals.
There can be no assurance that monitors the execution of this strategy.
sustainable business solutions will be developed and failure to do so could limit Unilevers growth and profit potential and damage Progress towards the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan is monitored our corporate reputation.
by the Unilever Leadership Executive and the Boards.
Customer Relationships Successful customer relationships are vital to our business and We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad continued growth.
spectrum of channels ranging from centrally managed multinational customers through to small traders accessed Maintaining strong relationships with our customers is necessary via distributors in many developing countries.
for our brands to be well presented to our consumers and available for purchase at all times.
We develop joint business plans with all our key customers that include detailed investment plans and customer service objectives The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability and we regularly monitor progress.
to obtain pricing and secure favourable trade terms.
Unilever may not be able to maintain strong relationships with customers and We have developed capabilities for customer sales and outlet failure to do so could negatively impact the terms of business with design which enable us to find new ways to improve customer the affected customers and reduce the availability of our products performance and enhance our customer relationships.
People A skilled workforce is essential for the continued success Resource committees have been established and implemented of our business.
These committees have responsibility for identifying future skills and capability needs, developing career Our ability to attract, develop and retain the right number of paths and identifying the key talent and leaders of the future.
appropriately qualified people is critical if we are to compete and grow effectively.
We have an integrated management development process which includes regular performance reviews underpinned by a common set of leadership behaviours, skills and competencies.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 37 RISKS continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk This is especially true in our key emerging markets where there can We have targeted programmes to attract and retain top talent be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
The loss of and we actively monitor our performance in retaining talent management or other key personnel or the inability to identify, attract within Unilever.
and retain qualified personnel could make it difficult to manage the business and could adversely affect operations and financial results.
Supply Chain Our business depends on securing high quality materials, We have contingency plans designed to enable us to secure efficient manufacturing and the timely distribution of products alternative key material supplies at short notice, to transfer or to our customers.
share production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in our product formulations and recipes.
Our supply chain network is exposed topotentially adverse events such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial These contingency plans also extend to an ability to intervene accidents or bankruptcy of a key supplier which could impact directly to support a key supplier should it for any reason find itself our ability to deliver orders to our customers.
in difficulty or be at risk of negatively affecting a Unilever product.
The quality and safety of our products are of paramount We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health importance for our brands andour reputation.
Nevertheless, and safety ofour employees and the products in our facilities and the risk that raw materials are accidentally or maliciously to deal withmajor incidents or crises including business continuity contaminated throughout the supply chain or that other product and disaster recovery.
defects occur due to human error or equipment failure cannot be fully excluded.
Such incidents can impact on both results Our product quality controls are extensive and are regularly and the reputation of our business.
tested to ensure that they are effective.
All of our key suppliers areperiodically reviewed to ensure they meet the rigorous quality The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost standards that our products demand.
of the underlying commodities and materials from which they are made.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed Commodity price risk is actively managed through forward-buying on to the consumer through pricing.
oftraded commodities and other hedging mechanisms.
Trends are monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our forecasting process.
Systems and Information Unilevers operations are increasingly dependent on IT systems Hardware that runs and manages core operating data is fully and the management of information.
backed up with separate contingency systems to provide real time back-up operations should they ever be required.
We interact electronically with customers, suppliers and consumers in ways which place ever greater emphasis on the We maintain a global system for the control and reporting of need for secure and reliable IT systems and infrastructure and access to our critical IT systems.
This is supported by an annual careful management of the information that is in our possession.
programme of testing of access controls.
Disruption of our IT systems could inhibit our business operations We have policies covering the protection of both business in a number of ways, including disruption to sales, production and and personal information, as well as the use of IT systems and cash flows, ultimately impacting our results.
Our employees are trained to understand these requirements.
There is also a threat from unauthorised access and misuse of sensitive information.
Unilevers information systems could be We have standardised ways of hosting information on our public subject to unauthorised access which disrupts Unilevers business websites and have systems in place to monitor compliance with and or leads to loss of assets.
appropriate privacy laws and regulations, and with our own policies.
Business Transformation Successful execution of business transformation projects is All acquisitions, disposals and global restructuring projects key to delivering their intended business benefits and avoiding are sponsored by a Unilever Leadership Executive member.
disruption to other business activities.
Regular progress updates are provided to the Unilever Leadership Executive.
Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including acquisitions and disposals and outsourcing, to drive Sound project disciplines are used in all merger, acquisitions, continuous improvement in our business and to strengthen our restructuring and outsourcing projects and these projects are portfolio and capabilities.
resourced by dedicated and appropriately qualified personnel.
The performance of third party outsourced providers is kept under Failure to execute such transactions or change projects constant review, with potential disruption limited to the time and successfully, or performance issues with third party outsourced cost required to instal alternative providers.
providers on which we are dependent, could result in underdelivery of the expected benefits.
Furthermore, disruption may be Unilever also monitors the volume of change programmes caused in other parts of the business.
underway in an effort to stagger the impact on current operations and to ensure minimal disruption.
38 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk External economic and political risks, and natural disasters Unilever operates across the globe and is exposed to a range of The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach external economic and political risks and natural disasters that may help to mitigate our exposure to any particular localised risk affect the execution of our strategy or the running of our operations.
Our flexible business model allows us to adapt our portfolio and respond quickly to develop new offerings Adverse economic conditions may result in reduced consumer that suit consumers and customers changing needs during demand for our products, and may affect one or more countries economic downturns.
within a region, or may extend globally.
We regularly update our forecast of business results and cash Government actions such as fiscal stimulus, changes to taxation flows and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities.
and price controls can impact on the growth and profitability of our local operations.
We have continuity planning designed to deal with crisis management in the event of political and social events and Social and political upheavals and natural disasters can disrupt natural disasters.
We believe that many years of exposure to emerging markets In 2012, more than half of Unilevers turnover came from emerging has given us experience operating and developing our business markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, successfully during periods of economic, political or social change.
These markets offer greater growth opportunities but also expose Unilever to economic, political and social volatility in these markets.
Eurozone risk Issues arising out of the debt crisis in Europe could have a material Unilever is committed to maintaining its operations in all adverse effect on Unilevers business in a number of ways.
Uncertainty, lack of confidence and any further deterioration We have conducted scenario planning in respect of a Eurozone in the situation could lead to lower growth and further recession break-up, or of countries leaving the Eurozone, and this has been in Europe and elsewhere.
Our operations would be affected if Eurozone countries were We are taking measures designed to minimise the impact of the to leave the euro.
In particular: potential scenarios whilst continuing to trade as normal, including: our European supply chain would face economic and developing contingency plans in respect of our supply operational challenges: chain operations: our customers and suppliers may be adversely affected, exercising additional caution with our counterparty exposures: leading to heightened counterparty credit risk: and taking prudent balance sheet measures in relation to high risk our investment in the country concerned could be impaired countries: and and may be subject to exchange controls and translation strengthening our short term liquidity positions.
Financial Unilever is exposed to a variety of external financial risks.
Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits and by theuse of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Further, operating Changes to the relative value of currencies can fluctuate widely companies borrow in local currency except where inhibited by andcould have a significant impact on business results.
Further, local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions.
because Unilever consolidates its financial statements in euros it We also hedge some of our exposures through the use of foreign issubject to exchange risks associated with the translation of the currency borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
underlying net assets and earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
Our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls optimal balance between fixed and floating rate interest exposures by individual countries which could limit our ability to import on expected net debt.
materials paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by maintaining accessto global debt markets through short-term and long-term Currency rates, along with demand cycles, can also result in debt programmes.
In addition, we have high committed credit significant swings in the prices of the raw materials needed facilities for general corporate purposes.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 39 RISKS continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Unilever may face liquidity risk, i. e. difficulty in meeting its Group Treasury regularly monitors exposure to our banks, obligations, associated with its financial liabilities.
A material and tightening counter party limits where appropriate.
Unilever sustained shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilevers actively manages its banking exposures on a daily basis.
credit rating, impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilevers ability to raise funds.
We regularly assess and monitor counterparty risk in our customers and take appropriate action to manage our exposures.
We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating rate debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase Our pension investment standards require us to invest across the interest cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost a range of equities, bonds, property, alternative assets and cash of future borrowings.
such that the failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on the overall value of assets.
In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed to counterparty risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
The majority of our assets, including those held in our pooled investment vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now managers and are regularly monitored by pension trustees closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in and central pensions and investment teams.
interest rates, fluctuating values of underlying investments and increased life expectancy.
Changes in any or all of these inputs Further information on financial instruments and capital could potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the and treasury risk management is included in note 16 on pages schemes and therefore have an adverse impact on profitability 116 to 120. and cash flow.
Ethical Acting in an ethical manner, consistent with the expectations of Our Code of Business Principles the Code and our Code customers, consumers and other stakeholders is essential for Policies govern the behaviour of our employees, suppliers, the protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
distributors and other third parties who work with us.
Unilevers brands and reputation are valuable assets and the Our processes for identifying and resolving cases of unethical way in which we operate, contribute to society and engage with practice are clearly defined and regularly communicated the world around us is always under scrutiny both internally and throughout Unilever.
Data relating to instances of unethical externally.
Despite the commitment of Unilever to ethical business practice is reviewed by the Unilever Leadership Executive and the steps we take to adhere to this commitment, there and by relevant Board committees and helps to determine the remains a risk that activities or events cause us to fall short of allocation of resources for future policy development, training our desired standard, resulting in damage to Unilevers corporate and awareness initiatives.
Legal, Regulatory and Other Compliance with laws and regulations is an essential part of The Code of Business Principles sets out our commitment to Unilevers business operations.
complying with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate.
In specialist areas the relevant teams at global, regional Unilever is subject to local, regional and global laws and or local level are responsible for setting detailed standards and regulations in such diverse areas as product safety, product ensuring that all employees are aware of and comply with claims, trademarks, copyright, patents, competition, employee regulations and laws specific and relevant to their roles.
health and safety, the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, employment and taxes.
Our legal specialists are heavily involved in monitoring and reviewing our practices to provide reasonable assurance that Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever we remain aware of and in line with all relevant laws and to civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and legal obligations.
criminal sanctions against us and or our employees with possible consequences for our corporate reputation.
Various mitigating processes exist within Unilever operating systems that are designed to help mitigate other areas of risk Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact including terrorism, fiscal and other forms of regulatory change on the cost of doing business.
Unilever is also exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty related to other factors including environmental, political, social and fiscal risks.
All these risks could materially affect Unilevers business.
There may be other risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
40 Report of the Directors About Unilever Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our Risk Appetite and Approach to Risk Management Processes Risk management is integral to Unilevers strategy and to the Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities achievement of Unilevers long-term goals.
Our success as an across all its operations covering strategy, planning, execution organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit the and performance management.
Risk management is integrated opportunities generated by our business and the markets we into every stage of this business cycle.
These procedures are are in.
In doing this we take an embedded approach to risk formalised and documented and are increasingly being management which puts risk and opportunity assessment centralised and automated into transactional and other at the core of the leadership team agenda, which is where information technology systems.
Assurance and Re-Assurance Unilever adopts a risk profile that is aligned to our vision to Assurance on compliance with the Code of Business Principles double the size of our business while reducing our environmental and all of our Code Policies is obtained annually from Unilever footprint and increasing our positive social impact.
Our available management via a formal Code declaration.
In addition, there capital and other resources are applied to underpin our priorities.
are specialist compliance programmes which run during the year We aim to maintain a strong single A credit rating on a long term and vary depending on thebusiness priorities.
These specialist basis, reflecting the strength of our balance sheet and cash flows.
compliance programmes supplement the Code declaration.
Our Corporate Audit function plays a vital role in providing to both Our approach to risk management is designed to provide management and the Boards an objective and independent review reasonable, but notabsolute, assurance that our assets are of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being assessed and systems throughout Unilever.
mitigated and all information that may be required to be disclosed is reported toUnilevers senior management including, where Boards assessment of compliance with the Risk appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Management frameworks The Boards, advised by the Committees where appropriate, Organisation regularly review the significant risks and decisions that could The Unilever Boards assume overall accountability for the have a material impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the management of risk and for reviewing the effectiveness of boundaries to the risks that Unilever is prepared to take in pursuit Unilevers risk management and internal control systems.
of the business strategy and the effectiveness of the management controls in place to mitigate the risk exposure.
The Boards have established a clear organisational structure withwell defined accountabilities for the principal risks that The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the Unilever faces in the short, medium and longer term.
This assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls organisational structure and distribution of accountabilities and and procedures in operation within Unilever.
They have also responsibilities ensures that every country in which we operate considered the effectiveness of any remedial actions taken for has specific resources and processes for risk review and risk the year covered by this document and up to the date of its mitigation.
This is supported by the Unilever Leadership approval by the Boards.
Executive, which takes an active responsibility for focusing on the principal areas of risk to Unilever.
The Boards regularly review Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to these risk areas, including consideration of environmental, social this can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages and governance matters, and retain responsibility for determining 56 and 57. the nature and extent of the significant risks that Unilever is prepared to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Further statements on compliance with the specific risk management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate Foundation and Principles Governance Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Corporate Securities Exchange Act 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 Purpose.
Our Code of Business Principles sets out the standards Act can be found on pages 52 to 54. of behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to.
Day-today responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied throughout Unilever rests with senior management across categories, geographies and functions.
A network of Code Officers and Committees supports the activities necessary to communicate the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures including hotlines to report and respond to alleged breaches, and to capture and communicate learnings.
We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code and set out the non-negotiable standards of behaviour expected from all our employees.
Unilevers functional standards define mandatory requirements across a range of specialist areas such as health and safety, accounting and reporting and financial risk management.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 41
