Directors report Risk management AVEVA has continued to be successful during the year, but as with any organisation there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are as follows: Risk Explanation and mitigation The Groups success has been built upon the development of its substantial Intellectual property intellectual property rights and the future growth of the business requires the continual progression of these tools.
The Group makes substantial investments in Research and Development in enhancing existing products and introducing new products and must effectively appraise its investment decisions and ensure that we continue to provide class-leading solutions that meet the needs of our markets.
There are many risks in software development.
Our software products are complex and may contain undetected errors, failures, performance problems or defects.
Furthermore if new products or enhancements are introduced which do not meet customer requirements or competitors introduce a rival product which better meets the requirements of the market, this may have a material impact on the X# of the activities of our Research and Development teams to ensure that they remain focused on areas that will meet the demands of our customers and deliver # 4 that will be made to successive versions of existing products.
The protection of the Groups proprietary software products remains critical and this is achieved by licensing rights to use the application, rather than selling or licensing the computer source code.
Infringement of the Groups intellectual property rights by third parties or its failure to defend infringement claims from third parties could cause damage to the business.
The Group uses third party technology to encrypt, protect and restrict access to its products.
The Group seeks to ensure that its intellectual property rights are appropriately protected by law and seeks to assert is proprietary rights wherever possible.
AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income from customers whose Dependency on key markets 4?
?z {J: H 4#| success is dependent on growth and continued demand from within these # ?4 and general economic conditions.
Downturns could cause delays and reductions in investment expenditure and reduced demand for our products and services.
24 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 Performance review Risk Explanation and mitigation The continued investment in and development of the Groups Enterprise Solutions Enterprise Solutions 44{Z# new market with different characteristics compared to our traditional Engineering and Design business.
This brings different challenges and opportunities for the Group which, although we believe we are well positioned to manage and exploit, returns as quickly as expected.
If we do not respond effectively we may lose market share and the business could suffer.
In Engineering & Design Systems, we believe that there are a 4 #}J of these competitors could, in the future, pose a greater competitive threat, particularly if they consolidate or form strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, well capitalised companies.
In Enterprise Solutions, we often compete against larger capitalised companies which could pose a greater competitive threat 4 # J{4 Y49|U Identification and $U|:54U Y successful integration targets as part of its strategy.
The integration of acquisitions involves a number of of acquisitions unique risks, including diversion of managements attention, failure to retain key 4YJ4 from the acquisition and successful integration of the acquired intellectual property.
The Group operates in Continental Europe, the Middle East, North America, International operations 588H resources across these diverse markets.
Where necessary, the business must adapt its market approach to best capitalise on local market opportunities, particularly in the strategically key growth economies.
In addition, the Group is required to comply with the local laws, regulations and 4?#5 and regulations or failure to comply with them could lead to additional liabilities and penalties.
The Group manages its overseas operations by employing locally Y and an understanding of local culture, custom and practice.
Dependence on local management can increase the risks of Group policy not being correctly applied, especially where diverse languages and cultures exist.
The Group endeavours to mitigate these risks through oversight by regional management in each of the three ?4{J8HJ6:688J the use of local professional advisers.
Exposure to foreign currency gains and losses can be material to the Group, Foreign exchange risk &4{Z4 J of which our two largest are US Dollar and Euro.
The Group enters into forward foreign currency contracts to manage the currency risk where material.
The overseas subsidiaries trade in their own currencies, which also acts as a natural hedge against currency movements.
AVEVAs success has been built on the quality and reputation of its products and Recruitment and services, which rely almost entirely on the quality of the people developing and retention of employees delivering them.
Managing this pool of highly skilled and motivated individuals across all disciplines and geographies remains key to our ongoing success.
The Group endeavours to ensure that employees are motivated by their work and there are regular appraisals, with staff encouraged to develop their skills.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2012 25
