30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic Risks continued Health, Safety, Environmental Risks Health, safety, environmental risks and related regulations Longer-term health impacts may arise due to unanticipated may adversely affect our operations and reputation or workplace exposures or historical exposures to employees licence to operate.
These effects may create future financial compensation obligations.
We may continue to be exposed We are engaged in mining activity, power generation and to increased operational costs due to the costs and lost time now oil and gas and our operations are subject to extensive associated with infectious diseases such as HIV AIDS and health, safety and environmental HSE regulations and malaria mainly within our African workforce and the legislations.
As regulatory standards and expectations are increasing global burden of chronic disease.
constantly developing, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental We have a structured programme of proactive engagement rehabilitation expenses.
with our stake-holders on sustainability related matters..
Potential health, safety, environmental and community events that may have a material adverse impact on our operations include rock fall incidents in underground mining operations, well blow-outs, explosions or gas leaks, uncontrolled tailings breaches, escape of polluting substances, uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons, human rights breaches and community protests or civil unrest.
Employee Risks The Group depends on the experience and management The Group is, in particular, dependent to a large degree on skill of certain of its key employees.
the continued service and performance of the executive management team of Vedanta and other key team members The Groups efforts to continue its growth will place in the Groups business units.
These key personnel possess significant demands on its management and other technical and business capabilities that are difficult to resources and the Group will be required to continue to replace.
The loss or diminution in the services of Vedantas improve operational, financial and other internal controls, executive management or other key team members, or its both in and outside India across all locations.
The Groups failure otherwise to maintain the necessary management ability to maintain and grow its existing businesses and and other resources to maintain and grow its businesses, integrate new businesses will depend on its ability to could have a material adverse effect on its businesses, maintain the necessary management resources and on its operating results, financial condition and or prospects.
ability to attract, train and retain personnel with the skills that enable it to keep pace with growing demands and evolving industry standards.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 31 Operational Risks Discovery Risks Failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance A failure in our ability to discover new reserves, enhance existing reserves or develop new operations could existing reserves or develop new operations in sufficient negatively affect our future results and financial condition.
quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our reserves could negatively affect our results, financial The increased demand for our products and increased condition and prospects.
There are numerous uncertainties production rates from our operations in recent years inherent in estimating ore and oil & gas reserves, and has resulted in existing reserves being depleted at an geological, technical and economic assumptions that are accelerated rate.
valid at the time of estimation may change signicantly when new information becomes available.
The uncertain Actual reserves, resources or mineral potential may not global financial outlook may affect economic assumptions conform to the geological, metallurgical or other related to reserve recovery and require reserve restatements expectations and the volume and grade of ore and or which could negatively affect our results and prospects.
hydrocarbons recovered may be below the estimated levels.
As our revenues and profits are related to minerals and resource operations, our results and financial condition are directly related to our ability to replace existing reserves and the success of our exploration.
Failure to Meet Production and Costs Targets Our operations are subject to conditions and events beyond Such risks and hazards may result in damage or harm to, or our control that could, among other matters, increase our destruction of, properties, production, facilities, people and mining, transportation or production costs, disrupt or halt the environment.
In addition, if a spill or other contamination operations at our mines, smelters and power plants and results from production, storage, export, shipment or sale of production facilities for varying lengths of time or even oil or other hydrocarbon products occurs, this could result permanently.
These conditions and events include disruptions in significant environmental liabilities.
in mining and production due to equipment failures, unexpected maintenance problems and other interruptions, It is our policy to realise market prices for our commodities non-availability of raw materials of appropriate quantity and and the profitability of our operations is dependent upon quality for our energy requirements, disruptions to or our ability to produce metals at a low cost which in turn is a increased cost of transport services or strikes and industrial factor of our commercial and operational efficiencies and actions or disputes.
While many of these risks are beyond our productivity.
The prices of many of our input materials are control, we have adequate and competent experience in inuenced by a variety of factors including demand and these areas and have consistently demonstrated our ability supply as well as ination.
to manage these problems proactively.
An increase in the cost of such input materials would The newly acquired oil & gas operations are also subject to adversely impact our competitiveness common operational risks such as interruptions to power supplies, technical facilities, ooding, or other accidents.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
