T I M N O I T A U L A V E N O I T A C I F I T 26 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The management of risk is critical to the success of the Vedanta Group.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks which are inherent in an international mining and resources business.
Understanding our risk and developing an adequate risk management system is critical to allow us topursue growth opportunities, increase shareholder value and also manage a variety of risks which could have a strategic, financial, operational or reputational impact.
We are committed to a robust system Board Review and Oversight of risk identication, backed by a robust risk management framework.
A Audit Committee Our risk management framework acts Executive REVIEW ASSURANCE Committee as an effective tool in mitigating the B Board various risks which our businesses are exposed to in the course of their operations as well as in their strategic Executive Risk Reporting actions.
We have a continuous process to identify, analyse, evaluate and respond to possible future events or risks that might impact EXTERNAL STRATEGIC the achievement of objectives.
We are planning to set up an Risk Management Committee to be chaired by the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO.
This committee will meet quarterly to review risks as well as progress against the planned actions.
Risk officers will be nominated both at Vedanta as well as operating company level.
The committee will be briefed every quarter on risk management.
The role of Chief Risk Officer CRO is being created to heighten awareness of the risk management framework at senior management level.
The CRO will help the organisation to enhance its risk management progress and ensure that the risk management framework matures and grows with the organisation.
A consistently applied methodology using the Turnbull matrix is used to identify risk at the individual company level covering operations and projects.
All the risks related to our businesses are identied and the top 20 risks are reviewed.
Risk identication is also undertaken for support and corporate functions.
Risk management is undertaken through a series of meetings at Company level and at key stages of projects.
FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL An update is performed periodically through the internal audit process.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 N E D I G N I R O T I N O M N O I T A G I OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 27 Vedanta Risk Matrix Gross Gross Risk Impact Likelihood 1.
Delays in expansions and new projects Strategic 2.
Liquidity risks in terms of being able to fund operations and growth Financial 3.
Regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainty External 4.
Currency uctuations may negatively affect our financial results Financial 7.
Failure to meet production and costs target Operational 8.
Health, safety, environmental risks Strategic 9.
Employee risks Strategic changes in the nature and extent of the major risks a matrix to establish financial and non-financial since the last assessment, controls and action plans.
impacts, the likelihoods of occurrence and the root causes analysis of the risk.
The current controls to Many of the mitigation measures stated in the mitigate the risk are then reviewed to enable the risk matrix relate to Group policies, the audit development of a prioritised risk management plan.
process and the audit plan to cover the key risks identied through the risk management The risk matrix is then reviewed by a committee programme.
The control measures stated in the comprising of the Group CEO, Group Chief Financial risk matrix are closely reviewed by the operating Officer CFO and the Director-Management management teams to verify their effectiveness.
The committee reviews the risks, External Risks Commodity Prices Commodity prices may be volatile, which may have a The key commodity price sensitivities on EBITDA resulting material adverse effect on the Groups revenue and from a 10% increase in commodity prices are set out below: operating results.
Effect on Average EBITDA of Effect on Commodity prices and demand are cyclical and strongly market price 10% change Underlying inuenced by world economic conditions.
Commodity in FY 201112 in LME Attributable price volatility can result in material and adverse movements US$ tonne US$ million PAT in the Groups revenue and operating results and a sustained Copper 8,475 139.9 74.3 drop would have a material adverse effect on its businesses, Aluminium 2,313 161.5 107.8 operating results, financial conditions and or prospects.
Zinc 2,098 221.0 81.0 The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing Lead 2,269 37.3 12.5 market prices and not to enter into price hedging Silver 35.3 23.9 7.2 arrangements other than for businesses which are not fully Oil & gas 114 246.7 116.2 integrated where back to back hedging is used to mitigate pricing risks.
In rare circumstances we may enter into The above sensitivities are based on FY 201112 volumes, strategic commodity hedging but only with prior approval of the Executive Committee.
Persistent economic costs and exchange rates and provide the estimated impact on EBITDA of changes in prices assuming that all other imbalances that have led to recent volatility in commodity prices and demand may continue.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 vedantaresources.
com 28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued External Risks continued Regulatory, Economic, Social and Political Uncertainty Regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainty in any For example, the GoI has increased the cess on crude of the countries and jurisdictions in which the Group production by 81% which impacts the oil assets we recently operates including changes to scal regimes or other acquired with Cairn India.
The Government of India has also regulatory regimes.
signicantly revised the export duty on Iron Ore from 20% to 30% during FY 201112 impacting the profitability of our iron Our mining, smelting and oil & gas operations are located in ore operations.
India, Zambia, Namibia, South Africa, Ireland, Australia, Sri Lanka and our holding and investment companies are Any change in government policies and legislation, including located in jurisdictions including the United Kingdom, resource nationalisation, may also affect our business and Jersey, Mauritius, the Netherlands, Cyprus and Australia.
profitability, including any retrospective changes in government policy and legislation.
The operation and expansion of various assets within the Group remain subject to legal proceedings, most notably The majority of our Group revenues and profits are derived the expansion of the Lanjigarh renery in VAL, the Tuticorin from commodities sold to customers in India.
Any downturn smelter in Sterlite and the mines in the Karnataka area within in the overall health of the Indian economy or any political Sesa Goa.
Progress has been made during the year to clarify or regional instability may impact revenue margins, the actions needed to settle these matters and we are including any impact arising as a result import tariffs hopeful that the necessary approvals will be obtained within prevailing in India.
For example in July 2011, the Supreme the foreseeable future.
Court of India banned the mining of iron ore in the State of Karnataka in India, which affected our iron ore production The political, legal, scal and other regulatory regimes in and profitability during the year.
these countries may result in higher operating costs or restrictions such as the imposition or increase in royalties or taxation rates, impact on mining rights and change in legislation pertaining to repatriation of money.
Changes to government policies such as changes in royalty rates, a reduction in import tariffs in India, a reduction in assistance given by the GoI for exports and the reduction or curtailment of income tax benets available to some of our operations in India, Namibia and Zambia are some of the examples of risks under this category.
We may also be affected by the political acts of governments in these countries over which we have no control.
Financial Risks Currency Fluctuations May Negatively Affect our Financial Results Our assets, earnings and cash ows are inuenced by a For the financial year 201112 there was volatility in the variety of currencies due to the diversity of the countries in Indian currency vis a vis the US dollar and the Indian rupee which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates of depreciated signicantly, which increased our mark-tothose currencies may have a significant impact on our market losses on US dollar loans.
Our attributable profit is financial results.
also impacted signicantly where our companies have higher attributable shares.
Although the majority of the Groups revenue is tied to commodity prices that are typically priced by reference to The Group seeks to mitigate the impact of short-term the US dollar, most of its expenses are incurred and paid in movements in currency on its businesses by hedging its local currency such as the Indian rupee and, to a lesser short-term exposures progressively based on their maturity.
extent, the Australian dollar, the South African rand, the However, large or prolonged movements in exchange Zambian kwacha and the euro.
The exchange rates between rates may have a material adverse effect on the Groups the various currencies in which we incur expenses have businesses, operating results, financial condition changed substantially in recent years and may uctuate and or prospects.
Our Group borrowings are predominantly denominated in US dollars while a large percentage of cash and liquid investments are held in other currencies, mainly in the Indian rupee.
Some financial assets and liabilities are not held in the local currency of the respective subsidiary.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 29 Financial Risks continued Liquidity Risks in Terms of Being Able to Fund Operations and Growth We require funds both for short-term operational needs as Anticipated future cash ows and undrawn committed well as for long-term investment programmes mainly in facilities of US$2,897.3 million, together with cash and liquid growth projects.
investments of US$6,885.4 million as at 31 March 2012, are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital If the Group is unable to obtain sufficient credit due to investment programme and liquidity requirement of the capital market conditions, it may not be able to raise Group in the near future.
sufficient funds to develop new projects, fund acquisitions or meet its ongoing nancing needs.
As a result, revenues, The Group has a strong balance sheet that gives sufficient operating results, cash ows or financial position may be headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys & Fitch Ratings are BB, Ba1 and BB respectively 2011: BB, Ba1 The Group generates sufficient cash ows from the current and BB respectively.
These ratings support the necessary operations which together with the available cash and cash financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets at equivalents and liquid financial asset investments provide competitive terms.
The Group generally maintains a healthy liquidity both in the short term as well as in the long term.
net debt-equity ratio and retains exibility in the nancing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
Strategic Risks Delays in Expansions and New Projects If the Groups planned expansions and new projects are In order to satisfy our bauxite requirements, we are in delayed, this could have a material adverse effect on the communications with the Orissa Government and other Groups businesses, operating results, financial condition sources regarding the allocation of new mining leases.
Sourcing of bauxite from mines in neighbouring states is also being pursued.
The Group has a number of significant expansion plans for its existing operations and planned green eld projects, Any delay in completing planned expansions, revocation of which involve significant capital expenditure.
The timing, existing clearances, failure to obtain or renew regulatory implementation and cost of these expansion projects are approvals, non-compliance with applicable regulations or subject to a number of risks, including the failure to obtain conditions stipulated in the approvals obtained, suspension necessary licences, permits, consents and approvals, or of current projects or cost overruns or operational funding for the projects.
Any failure to obtain the requisite difficulties once the projects are commissioned may have a regulatory approvals may delay or prevent the Group material adverse effect on the Groups businesses, operating from commencing commercial operations at certain of results, financial condition and or prospects.
Any delay in these projects.
completing planned expansions could have a material adverse effect on Vedantas credit rating, which may For instance, the Group does not currently have all of increase its borrowing costs.
the required environmental approvals for the proposed expansion at the alumina renery at Lanjigarh and related The Company is also trying to develop relationships with mining operations in Niyamgiri Hills in the State of Orissa.
private coal mines as well as actively working with the These are subject to the outcome of certain legal Government of India on how coal stock movement proceedings pending before the Supreme Court of India.
bottlenecks can be eliminated at State mines.
