Principal risks and uncertainties As described in the Corporate Governance Report, there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by Vesuvius.
Group management operates a risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Audit Committee on the process of how those risks are being managed.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and also reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group.
The Board receives regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Throughout its global operations, Vesuvius faces various risks, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
Vesuvius manages the risks inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, where practical, and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
The risks below are not the only ones that the Group will face.
Some risks are not yet known and some that are not currently deemed material could later become material.
All of these risks could materially affect the Group, its businesses, results of future operations or financial condition.
Risk and impact Mitigation The financial performance and financial position of Vesuvius may be adversely affected by a significant weakening in demand in its core end-markets.
The global macroeconomic environment remains uncertain.
The Board regularly reviews Group strategy, which determines the markets in which the Group operates.
The current spread of the Groups In 2012, following a decline in average monthly steel production major businesses, both geographically and by end-market served, volumes at the beginning of the second half of the year, the normal provides some protection to the Group should conditions, in particular seasonal strengthening did not occur and, indeed, in September, rather markets, deteriorate.
Further, the reduction in the Groups cost base than our businesses experiencing the normal seasonal strengthening, during the last three years provides additional insulation to the adverse there were signs of some further weakening in steel production volume impact of any near-term market downturn and this, together with the trends, particularly in the US, Europe and Brazil.
The downturn was level and tenor of the Groups debt facilities, leads the Directors to particularly marked in the Foundry division and was principally related to believe that the Group is well positioned financially to sustain a further the weakness of the car market in Europe and the truck market globally.
downturn in end-market activity should this occur.
Vesuvius supplies predominantly consumable products, on short lead times, to the global steel and foundry industries.
As such, Vesuvius expectations of future trading are based upon the Directors assessment of end-market conditions, which conditions are subject to some uncertainty.
In the event that end-market conditions suffer significant deterioration, Vesuvius may experience reductions in trading activity, a lower share price, the financial failure of one or more of its key customers and suppliers, asset impairments, lower profitability and or a material adverse impact on its financial position.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 58 Our Performance Risk and impact Mitigation The Groups financial position and trading results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates or the rate of inflation.
In the normal course of business, many transactions are carried out The Group seeks to manage transactional and balance sheet translation by Group businesses in currencies other than their reporting currency, risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations through its leading to transactional foreign exchange risk, although this is not hedging and funding policies and it is Group policy that foreign currency material for the Group overall.
The Group is exposed to the effect of transaction exposures that are material at an individual operating unit translating the results and net assets of its overseas subsidiaries into level are hedged using appropriate instruments such as forward foreign sterling.
Significant fluctuations in the value of currencies in which it exchange contracts.
For its key operating currencies, the Group broadly operates, in interest rates, or in rates of inflation may adversely impact matches the currency profile of its borrowings with the currencies of the Groups financial position, results of operations and ability to comply its asset base, but does not hedge translational impact on the income with its financial covenants.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swaps or other instruments.
The Group may lose customers to competitors with new or alternative technologies if its businesses either do not adequately adapt to market developments or are unable to protect, maintain and enforce their intellectual property.
The markets in which many of Vesuvius businesses operate can Vesuvius invests significant amounts in research and development and experience rapid changes due to the introduction of new technologies.
endeavours to sustain its competitive advantage and take appropriate The continued success of Vesuvius depends upon its ability to continue action to ensure that its cost base remains competitive.
In 2012, total to develop and produce new and enhanced products and services on a research and development spend was 24.5 million, equivalent to 1.6% cost-effective and timely basis in accordance with customer demands.
In addition, the markets for Vesuvius products are competitive in terms of pricing, product and service quality, product development and The Group applies for patents over its major products, technologies introduction time, customer service, financing terms and other similar and processes in a number of jurisdictions, including in Europe and factors.
If Vesuvius fails adequately to adapt to market developments the US.
New product and service offerings by competitors are regularly related to new products and technology, it could lose customers to monitored and any perceived breach of a Group patent is vigorously suppliers with better or less costly products.
To the extent possible, the Group avoids holding key intellectual property in countries which do not afford an acceptable Throughout its operations, Vesuvius relies on a combination of trade degree of legal protection to the Group.
secrets, patents, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and copyright and trade mark laws to protect its proprietary rights.
If Vesuvius fails to or is unable to protect, maintain and enforce its existing intellectual property, this may result in the loss of the Groups exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are included or used in its businesses.
In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which Vesuvius operates may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as those of, for example, the UK or the USA.
com Stock Code: VSVS 59 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk and impact Mitigation The Groups financial condition may be materially adversely affected by any significant liabilities for any defects of its products or services.
If a product of the Group or of one of the Groups industrial customers The Board believes that, taking into account legal advice received, the does not conform to agreed specifications or is otherwise defective, the Groups insurance arrangements, indemnification provided by former Group may be subject to claims by its customers arising from endowners of certain of the subsidiaries impacted and financial provisions, product defects, injury to individuals or other such claims.
Legal claims none of the currently pending or potential claims will, either individually have been brought against certain Group companies by third parties or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on the Groups alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to hazardous financial position and results of operations.
materials used by those companies in the manufacture of industrial and consumer products, and further claims may be brought in the future.
Certain of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to suits, predominantly in the US, relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
These suits usually also name many other product manufacturers.
To date, the Group is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries.
The Groups worldwide operations and businesses may be adversely affected by various political, legal, regulatory and other developments in countries in which it operates.
Vesuvius is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including As part of its planning process before entering a new market or territory, those covering taxation and environmental matters: and political or expanding in an existing market or territory, the Group undertakes risks including the imposition of trade barriers, changes of regulatory a rigorous assessment of the risks involved.
In addition, the spread requirements, lack of protection for intellectual property rights and the of the Groups major businesses, both geographically and by endvolatility of input costs, selling prices, taxes and currencies.
In particular, market served, provides some protection to the Group should any of its operating within the rapidly evolving developing nations can expose businesses be adversely impacted by legal, regulatory or other changes the Groups businesses to significant local risks and challenges.
Future in an individual market or territory.
global political, legal or regulatory developments concerning Group businesses may affect their ability to operate and to operate profitably The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its in the affected jurisdictions.
Should Group businesses fail to comply businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, this may result in a operational risks which they face.
financial loss or restriction on their ability to operate.
The Groups businesses are subject to a variety of operational risks, including natural catastrophe, terrorist action, theft, fraud and, particularly in developing nations, insufficient supply of high-quality local management and technical personnel.
If any of the operational risks materialise to a significant extent, this could result in a substantial interruption to a facility, loss of future insurance cover, a potential loss of customers and revenue and financial loss.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 60 Our Performance Risk and impact Mitigation A withdrawal or reduction of precious metal consignment arrangements, or increased precious metal prices resulting in consignment lines being fully utilised, may cause a shortage of raw materials requiring the business to be restructured and downsized and may result in a short-term material increase in the Groups financial indebtedness.
The Groups precious metal fabrication operations utilise significant The utilisation of consigned precious metals is established practice in the quantities of precious metals, primarily gold by value.
These metals are precious metals industry.
The Group has successfully maintained precious held predominantly on consignment under uncommitted contractual metal consignment arrangements of this nature for over 20 years.
arrangements whereby the consignor has the right to demand physical Vesuvius has close commercial relationships with its group of consignor return or purchase of its consigned metal.
Management seek to operate the business at all times with consignors decide to reduce or withdraw the facilities for whatever appropriate headroom within the consignment facilities, taking account reason, or require a return of the consigned metal, or increased metal of anticipated levels of business activity and precious metals prices.
prices lead to the consignment arrangements becoming fully utilised, the Groups precious metal fabrication operations may suffer shortages of The sale of the Groups Precious Metals Processing division will remove raw materials requiring the business to be restructured and downsized in this risk.
order to be able to operate within its available consignment facilities.
In the short - term this may require precious metals to be purchased, which could materially increase the Groups financial indebtedness pending completion of the downsizing.
