s k s i r n o i t i s i u q c A t n s e e s m i l o t n r i t s o n l v o o r r i i t c n v t o t n c h c e g e s n i s k i l a l s i t r a r n e e o r v t e a r Directors Report: Review of the year How We Manage Risk The Weir Group faces a wide spectrum of risks across our global footprint.
Effective management of those risks is at the heart of how we conduct our day-to-day business.
Risk management framework Our integrated bottom-up and top-down We can take decisions with confidence, because we know that, as a Group, we are identifying risks at an approach to risk management provides early stage and taking proportionate steps to mitigate visibility and accountability for risks those risks.
We have a Risk Management Policy and Framework which provides a consistent approach to throughout the Group.
risk management across the Group on a continual cycle.
Risks identied at operating company level, which potentially may have a wider impact on the divisions and the Group, are escalated through dened and regular reporting mechanisms.
Where required, feedback is provided to the operating companies on their risk assessment and approach to risk mitigation.
In addition, division and Group-wide risks are shared with the operating companies.
This allows the operating companies to consider the local implications of such risks.
Our integrated bottom-up and top-down approach to risk management provides visibility and accountability for risks throughout the Group.
Risk management framework 42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 u r f o o d t p c d r n l o a n u C l n a a c n g a o n d i t i c r n r n o u t a i u F n s o s c M i s h t A E s k s i r t e s s A g n i t s s i l x o e r t y n f i o Policies and decisions t n c e I d c d I e o n n t t r i f o y l a f u c r t i t o s h n s e s e r s s k a s i r d n s I II III IV Risk management cycle Risk roles and responsibilities Risks are assessed in terms of impact and likelihood The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups of occurrence before, and after, control mitigation, i. e. risk and internal control frameworks.
It has set out gross and net risk.
This allows the business to review the decisions, and hence the level of risk, which can the relative cost benefit of control actions to ensure the be delegated to the Group Executive, divisional and risk mitigation is proportionate.
We recognise that not all operational company management without requiring risks are within the control of the Group, a key example escalation to the Board.
This is achieved through a series being political and social unrest within the territories of Group policies and delegated authority matrices in which we operate.
However, our approach to risk including reference to, for example, capital expenditure, management ensures we have controls in place to sales and quotations, gifts and hospitality, employee reduce the impact of such risks, should they occur.
appointments, expansion into new territories, appointment of external sales agents, and operational purchases.
Board and sub-committees Group Executive Risk Committee Divisional management Operating company management Risk management cycle Risk roles and responsibilities The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 43 a s y o f r i t g n e d A I s s r i e s s k s s n e t d n a t Reporting r r o o t p i n e r o M Directors Report: Review of the year How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties As in any business, there may be unforeseen issues which could impact the Groups ability to achieve its objectives in the future.
However, we believe the Groups risk management framework makes this less likely.
The key risks set out below are those which we believe have the greatest potential to impact our ability to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Global and economic conditions Changes in key We need to remain sufciently exible to allow us to We maintain regular engagement with our customers markets and meet growth in demand when our customers markets to understand their needs and challenges.
or political are buoyant and therefore capital investment is high, Our strategic planning utilises extensive market conditions have and equally foresee downturns and or instability intelligence to assist in forecasting opportunities an adverse impact in territories, to allow us to adjust our operations and dips in markets, as well as potential political on customers accordingly.
Otherwise, we are at risk of not maximising and social instability in regions.
our potential for growth in buoyant markets, and We maintain contingency plans for downturns and incurring unnecessary costs during downturns.
Technology and innovation We fail to drive The strength of our business is built upon a history Continual investment in research and development, innovation to ensure of delivering innovative and sustainable solutions including the Weir Advanced Research Centre in that the business for our customers.
If we fail to keep abreast of conjunction with the University of Strathclyde.
continues to deliver market needs or to innovate solutions we are at Global design centres of origin, dedicated technology sustainable and risk of losing market share to our competitors centres for pump and materials development and a attractive solutions and reducing margins as demand decreases.
commitment to creating patent protected technologies.
We have dedicated governance teams Engineering and Manufacturing Excellence Committees focused on the delivery of our strategic objectives for technological advances and innovation in manufacturing practices to meet the needs of our customers.
Environment, health and safety EHS We fail to adequately We have a fundamental duty to protect our The Weir behavioural safety system is in place protect our people and other stakeholders from harm whilst to reduce the risk of safety incidents.
In addition, people and other conducting our business.
As well as the personal there are initiatives to prevent the most common stakeholders from impact on our people resulting from a failure to accident types.
The Weir global EHS standards harm associated meet this obligation, we would also be at risk of: are continually reviewed.
with a breach in reputational damage leading to a loss of customers: The EHS Excellence Committee is responsible for EHS standards.
legal action from regulators including fines and monitoring performance and compliance with Group penalties: and objectives, policies and standards relating to EHS.
exclusion from markets important for our future growth.
There is a formal EHS assurance programme with issues escalated as required through the reporting structures.
44 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II III IV Risk Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Ethics and governance Interactions with our We are unwilling to accept dishonest or corrupt The Code of Conduct, supplemented with Group people, customers, behaviour from our people, or external parties acting policies on related topics, provides a clear benchmark suppliers and other on our behalf, whilst conducting our business.
for how we expect our business will be conducted.
stakeholders are not If we fail to act with integrity we are at risk of: Regular training is provided using a range of conducted with the reputational damage leading to a loss of customers: mechanisms including Town Hall style sessions, highest standards increased scrutiny from regulators: on-line and induction training.
of integrity, which legal action from regulators including fines, penalties The financial control framework is continually devalues our and imprisonment: and monitored for effectiveness.
Internal Audits remit includes regular review of the anti-bribery and corruption and financial controls across the Group.
The Group Legal team is responsible for monitoring compliance with the Code of Conduct.
Supply chain We fail to adequately Our supply chain is dependent upon a number of factors Established engagement framework in place with manage the supply including sufficient manufacturing capacity, access to key suppliers.
chain thereby raw materials and key components, integrated sales Regular KPI monitoring of the supply chain throughout reducing our and production planning, and skilled people.
If we fail the organisation.
ability to meet to meet the delivery targets agreed with customers The Purchasing Excellence Committee monitors customer demand as a result of a failure in the supply chain we risk: performance and compliance with Group objectives, in an economic and damaging our reputation and as a consequence policies and standards relating to procurement.
losing customers and market share: Centres of Excellence are established for key incurring penalties as a result of late delivery components to drive efficiencies and enhance delivery contractual clauses: and standards whilst maintaining quality.
reducing margins by incurring unnecessary additional Consistent Group-wide approach to inventory control costs associated with late remedial actions taken and sales and operational planning.
to avoid missing delivery targets.
Acquisitions and expansion into new territories Inadequate planning Acquisitions and expansions into new territories The strategic planning process includes market and management are only undertaken after rigorous review and and competitive position assessments to drive of the integration identication of expected synergies, cost savings the acquisition agenda.
and expansion and growth opportunities.
However, there is a risk Comprehensive due diligence is performed on processes impacts that these benets may not be achieved, or may all potential acquisitions.
the ability to not be achieved within the anticipated timescales, We have a formal 100 day integration plan with generate growth thereby tying up the Groups funds in investments with dedicated integration directors and managers opportunities, insufficient return.
There is also a risk that we could appointed to oversee and manage the full synergies and cost be left liable for past acts or omissions of the acquired integration programme.
savings within businesses without adequate right of redress.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 45
