Directors report and business review Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Board considers the risks set out below to represent the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, together with the mitigating actions that are taken in order to ensure that these risks are appropriately monitored and controlled.
WHSmiths management team recognise that the profile of risks constantly changes and additional risks not presently known, or that may be currently deemed immaterial, may also impact the Groups business objectives and performance.
Risk description Mitigation Economic, political, competitive and market risks WHSmith operates in highly competitive markets and our failure WHSmiths performance is dependent upon effectively to compete effectively with travel, convenience and other predicting and quickly responding to changing consumer retailers may affect revenues obtained through our stores.
The Group conducts customer research to Failure to keep abreast of market developments, including the understand current demands and preferences in order to help use of new technology, could threaten our competitive position.
translate market trends into saleable merchandise.
WHSmith is In each country in which WHSmith operates, the Group may also a member of key industry bodies which help maintain awareness be impacted by regulatory and tax changes, increasing scrutiny of developments in standards and legislation.
by competition authorities such as the ongoing investigation into the sale of eBooks, political developments, the economic climate and the general condition of retail and travel markets.
Factors such as household disposable income, weather, seasonality of sales, changing demographics and customer shopping patterns, and raw material costs could impact profit performance.
Reliance on the WHSmith brand The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure to protect it The Group regularly monitors key service and compliance from an event that materially damages its reputation, and or the measures to ensure that operating standards are maintained in failure to sustain its appeal to customers, could have an adverse the UK and internationally.
Key suppliers and supply chain management WHSmith has agreements with key suppliers in the UK, Europe The Group conducts risk assessments of all its key suppliers to and the Far East.
The interruption or loss of supply of core identify alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event category products from these suppliers to our stores may affect that any of these key suppliers fail.
All suppliers have to comply our ability to trade.
Quality of supply issues may also impact the with the conditions laid out in our Supplier Code of Conduct Groups reputation and impact our ability to trade.
which covers areas such as production methods, employee working conditions and quality control.
WHSmith has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of these arrangements are individually considered to be essential to the business of the Group.
Store portfolio The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio are key WHSmith undertakes research of key markets and contributors to the Groups strategy.
Retailing from a portfolio of demographics to ensure that we continue to occupy prime good quality real estate in prime retail areas and at locations and identify appropriate locations to acquire commercially reasonable rates remains critical to the newspace.
All of High Streets stores are held under operating leases, and consequently the Group is exposed to the extent that any store becomes unviable as a result of rental costs.
Most Travel stores are held under concession agreements on average for 5-10 years, although there is no guarantee that concessions will be renewed or that Travel will be able to bid successfully for new contracts.
The majority of Travels airport and railway concession agreements contain change of control clauses, giving various rights to the grantor of the concession, such as termination of the contract, in the event of a successful takeover bid for WHSmith.
WH Smith PLC 16 Annual report and accounts 2012 1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Risk description Mitigation Business interruption An act of terrorism or war, or an outbreak of a pandemic WHSmith has business continuity plans in place which are disease, could reduce the number of customers visiting regularly reviewed, updated and tested.
The Groups IT systems WHSmith outlets, causing a decline in revenue and profit.
In the receive ongoing investment to ensure that they are able to past, our Travel business has been particularly impacted by respond to the needs of the business.
Back-up facilities and geopolitical events such as major terrorist attacks, which have contingency plans are in place and are tested regularly to ensure led to reductions in customer traffic.
Closure of travel routes that business interruptions are minimised and that data is both planned and unplanned, such as the disruption caused by protected from corruption or unauthorised use.
natural disasters or weather-related events, may also have a material effect on business.
The Group operates from three distribution centres and the closure of any one of them may cause disruption to the business.
In common with most retail businesses, WHSmith also relies on a number of important IT systems, where any system performance problems could seriously affect our ability to trade.
Reliance on key personnel The performance of WHSmith depends on its ability to continue The Remuneration Committee monitors the levels and structure to attract, motivate and retain key head office and store staff.
of remuneration for senior management and seeks to ensure The retail sector is very competitive and the Groups personnel that they are designed to attract, retain and motivate the key are frequently targeted by other companies for recruitment.
personnel to run the Group successfully.
Treasury, financial and credit risk management WHSmiths exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to credit, interest rate and foreign currency risk are analysed interest rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, to further in Note 23 of the accounts.
The Group also has credit risk ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs in relation to its trade, other receivables and sale or return and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
WHSmith does contracts with suppliers.
not engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The value of any deposit that can be placed with any approved counterparty is based on short-term and long-term credit ratings.
The Groups Treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to Group Internal Audit review.
The Group has a committed facility with a number of financial institutions which are available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
This facility matures in January 2016.
Pensions and investment risk management The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the WHSmith An Investment Committee of the Trustees to the scheme meets Pension Trust, has assets valued at 889m as at 31 August 2012 regularly to review the performance of the investment managers managed by third party investment managers.
The Liability and the scheme as a whole.
The Company is represented on this Driven Investment LDI structure that is in place has a number Committee.
The risk of failure of counterparties and of the of inflation and interest rate hedges and equity option investment manager is monitored regularly by the Committee.
agreements, with collateral posted daily to or from the scheme The Trustees have the right to determine the level of to the relevant counterparty.
The risk of failure of counterparties contributions and the Company has agreed with the Trustees a could also expose the scheme to loss.
The scheme's liabilities deficit funding schedule.
Further details can be found in Note 4 are also subject to changes in longevity.
W WH H S Sm mi it th h P PL LC C A An nn nu ua al l r re ep po or rt t a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 12 2 1 17 7
