co. uk The outputs from the process carried out at business level form the basis of a Group-level risk matrix.
This Risk includes the most significant business risks as well as other risks specific to the Group.
The Group risk matrix is reviewed quarterly by the Board and annually by the management Audit Committee.
The process: links risks to strategic objectives: prioritises risks based on likelihood and impact: articulates the key controls on which the business relies in mitigating and or monitoring the key risks: and Risk at Whitbread is measured by reference to drives quarterly updates to the status of risks the strategic goals and reputational interests of and controls.
The link between the Companys strategy and the six categories of risk used can The risk and control matrices are used as the be seen in the schematic below.
foundation on which to develop the annual assurance map, which ensures risks and controls are reviewed and tested either by Ernst & Young, CMi or PwC as part of the operational audit.
Operational audit work provides a level of independent assurance Customer Team engagement Profitable growth heartbeat on the application of key controls put in place by management to mitigate both the likelihood and impact of key risks to the Group and its businesses.
The current status Risks linked to strategy In total, there were 18 risks identified on the Group risk matrix considered by the Audit Committee in March 2012.
These risks were categorised into the following six categories: health and safety: reputational: market: financial: third-party: and operational.
Financial risks Reputational Health and Third-party risks risks Mitigating controls are in place for all 18 risks, together safety risks Operational Market risks with appropriate assurance processes.
After taking risks account of these controls the Audit Committee and the Board considered that 13 of the risks either had a low likelihood of occurring or would have a low impact in Structure the event that they did occur.
For this reason, these 13 The structure of the risk management process at risks have not been categorised as principal risks for the Whitbread is shown in the diagram at the bottom of purposes of this report.
The Board considers that for all the page.
Both Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants and 13 of these risks there has been no deterioration of the Costa maintain risk matrices aligned to their respective position during the year.
The matrices analyse the risks to the achievement of those goals and prioritise those risks The five principal risks identified, together with details as low, medium or high based on both the likelihood of mitigating controls, monitoring and assurance and potential impact of each risk.
The matrices are processes and an indication of the current trend for accompanied by supporting schedules outlining the each are summarised in the table on page 21.
The controls in place to manage each risk.
These matrices, Board does not consider any of these risks to have together with controls and mitigations, are reviewed on a high likelihood of occurring.
a quarterly basis by the respective management boards.
Whitbread Group risk matrix Reviewed quarterly by the Executive Committee and the Whitbread PLC Board and annually by the Audit Committee Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants risk matrix Costa risk matrix Reviewed quarterly by the Reviewed quarterly by the Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Costa Management Board Management Board Operational audit Scope agreed by Audit Committee to address key risks identified and carried out by PwC Reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee 20 Principal risks Risk Mitigation controls Monitoring and assurance Current trend Health and The quality of expertise of members of the CMi, an independent Stable safety risk: procurement, food development and safety company, carries out serious health or and security teams mitigates the risk of regular audits on all provenance issue serious food safety or provenance issues.
outlets to measure their relating to food.
The Company monitors media reports to performance against a help it to predict future issues and the Board range of health and safety emphasises the importance of this area.
The standards, including food Company has stringent food safety policies safety standards.
Health and a detailed sourcing policy.
and safety is a hurdle on the WINcard and influences bonus payments to employees.
Regular updates are provided to the management boards and to the Whitbread PLC Board.
Market risk: Commercial action plans have been The executive teams Stable consumer spending developed by the Groups businesses in and the Whitbread being adversely order to ensure that, in the challenging PLC Board review the affected by the consumer economy, we continue to offer commercial plans and macro-economic excellent value to our customers so that monitor performance.
our hotels, restaurants and coffee shops are the number one choice in their market.
Trading results and economic indicators are monitored to allow for speedy action when required.
Market risk: Actions to outperform the competition are Relative market share Premier Inn change in the developed on a strategic and tactical basis.
information and timely Stable market or Significant customer research is carried out trading performance data competitor activity with Premier Inn, for example, receiving is produced and monitored adversely affecting more than 800,000 responses in 2011 12. by the executive teams Restaurants trading in any of The customer insight received is used to and the Board.
Stable the Companys develop action plans.
both in the UK and overseas, are analysed and competitor activity is monitored.
Monthly reports are produced by each Costa business for the Board.
Improving Financial risk: The Companys defined benefit pension Lane Clark & Peacock Deteriorating significant increase scheme is closed to new members and, for have been appointed as in the pension future service, to existing members.
The pensions advisers to the schemes actuarial Pension Investment Committee and its Company.
Pension fund and or statutory advisers, as well as the internal pensions reports are reviewed by deficit resulting team, have significant expertise in the area the Board.
in higher pension and provide good quality oversight.
The contributions or investment strategy has been designed the re-rating of the to reduce volatility and risk and hedging Companys credit.
opportunities are utilised as appropriate.
Third-party risk: Credit control checks are carried out on Credit controllers Stable third-party failing parties to significant contracts, along with monitor risks and there and consequently the continued auditing and monitoring is a regular review of the breaching the terms of those contracts.
Regular reviews are debtors registers by the of a significant carried out on the potential for privity management boards.
contract or giving of contract claims and, when they are rise to a privity of received, all efforts are made to lessen the contract claim.
financial liability through negotiation with the landlord or sale of the lease.
