28 Performance review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Risks and uncertainties Risk Our approach to risk management To reduce the chances of this happening and also to reduce the impact of such an event if it were to happen, we have developed recovery plans Business interruption and invested in the creation of a remote IT disaster recovery site.
Our distribution and systems infrastructures are fundamental to ensuring the normal continuity of trading in our stores.
If a major incident occurred As with all businesses, we face risk to this infrastructure or another key facility, this could have a detrimental impact on the businesss ability to operate effectively.
and uncertainty, which could impact the delivery of our strategy.
The Board Recognising the importance of formulating and implementing a successful strategy, the strategy is developed by the Chief Executive and senior Business strategy executives.
It is considered and approved by the Board, which takes time each year to review and monitor its delivery through formal time set In the long term, effectively managing the strategic risks that the Group has overall accountability for ensuring aside for this purpose.
To ensure that the strategy is communicated and understood, the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders, faces will deliver benefits to all our stakeholders.
The Board understands that, including shareholders, colleagues, suppliers and other groups.
This continual process helps to ensure that it remains relevant and improves that risks are effectively managed if the strategy and vision are not properly formulated or communicated, then the likelihood of success.
the long term aims of the Group will not be met and the business may suffer.
across the Group, and that there The Groups employment policies, remuneration and benefits packages are designed to be competitive with other companies, as well as is a system for internal control.
Colleague engagement and retention to provide colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
During the year, over 100,000 colleagues went through our Academy programme.
The continued success of the Group relies heavily on the investment in The Management Board is responsible The Group continually engages with colleagues across the business to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
the training and development of our 131,000 colleagues.
This is a critical element of the quality of service we offer to our customers.
for implementing and maintaining the system of controls.
The appropriate management evaluation and verification systems are integrated into operational management activities and these Corporate citizenship are overseen by the Management Board and the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
Delivery against targets and Morrisons is committed to taking good care and, if we fail to act as a key performance indicators is regularly monitored and reported.
Further information is available in our Corporate responsibility review responsible corporate citizen or misjudge the mood of the nation, this Managing the risk management process at www.
co. uk cr could damage our reputation and, therefore, potentially lose the trust The Board believes a successful risk management framework of our stakeholders and increase costs.
balances risk and reward, and applies reasoned judgement and consideration of likelihood and impact in determining The business uses data and analysis to provide insights that help explain what customer needs and wants are.
This informs product ranging, the Groups principal risks.
Customer proposition marketing, advertising and also the location of stores.
The importance of getting this right is the reason that we invest in the development We operate in a very competitive industry.
Also, our customers shopping of our colleagues in order to make the right choices for our customers.
habits are influenced by broader economic factors that our business does not control.
If we fail to keep our proposition aligned with customers 1 Develop and communicate expectations, then they may choose not to shop with us and sales will suffer.
strategy and objectives The Groups treasury operations are controlled centrally by the Treasury Committee in accordance with clearly defined policies and procedures Our strategy informs the setting of objectives Financial and treasury that have been authorised by the Board.
The Treasury Committee has certain approved delegated authorities and reports twice a year to the across the business and is widely communicated The main financial risks that the Group is exposed to relate to the availability Audit Committee on its activities.
See note 18 of the Group financial statements.
through the use of our scorecard.
of funding, the loss of a financial counter party and the uncertainty produced by fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
All of these things have the potential to undermine the Groups ability to finance its trading activities and its financial results.
2 Identify and evaluate risks As a manufacturer of food products, we have established strict standards and monitoring processes to manage the risks associated with food Food and product safety safety throughout our Group and its supply chain.
Our food manufacturing businesses are ISO 22000 accredited, which provides an effective Risks are identified by colleagues from all business We are aware that, if we fail to deliver excellent standards of hygiene framework for the control of internal processes.
Food hygiene practices are taken very seriously throughout our Group, and are monitored areas through a variety of mechanisms, including and safety in our products, there is a potential to harm our customers both through internal audit procedures and external bodies such as environmental health departments.
We also maintain regular supplier facilitated workshops.
The likelihood and impact and damage our business reputation.
Our business focuses on fresh food assessments for food and general merchandise categories.
Our stock withdrawal procedures operate throughout our supply chain to minimise and we have a vertically integrated business model: therefore, food safety of identified risks is considered and captured.
the impact to customers of any supplier recalls.
We have a property strategy that develops stores to a well proven format and we operate a formal capital approval process which is overseen Property by the Investment Board.
The business is growing the size of its retail space through acquisition 3 Mitigation of risks and by modernising and extending existing stores and facilities.
If we fail Responsibility for actions to mitigate risks to adequately grow our space in an earnings enhancing way, we will lose is delegated to appropriate colleagues within market share and our profits will suffer.
the business, and risks and controls are recorded in the functional risk registers.
There is clear, ultimate accountability with the Directors for compliance with all areas of regulation, and the Corporate Compliance and Regulation Responsibility Committee provides oversight over many of these areas.
The business designs its policies and procedures to accord with The Group operates in an environment governed by strict regulations to relevant laws and regulations.
In respect of Competition Law and the Grocery Supply Code of Practice, these are monitored and reported ensure the safety and protection of customers, shareholders, colleagues and on by the Company Secretary and Head of Legal Services.
other stakeholders, and the operation of an open and competitive market.
These regulations include alcohol licensing, health and safety, the handling 4 Review and monitoring success of actions of hazardous materials, data protection, the rules of the stock exchange and The Management Board considers the risks competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very reported in the functional risk registers and, seriously, and recognises that breach of regulation can lead to reputational and financial damage to the Group.
with assistance from Risk and Internal Audit, prepares a Group risk register.
This is reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
To maximise the likelihood of successful delivery, the Group has chosen to partner with some of the worlds leading technology companies Systems and change for key projects.
Also, our business, like other similar businesses, has a capacity to absorb a level of change without having a detrimental The Board identified that many of the existing systems were approaching impact on continuing business operations.
Change programmes within the Group are designed with this in mind and are structured and the end of their useful lives and that a comprehensive programme of governed in a manner that allows the Board to monitor their impact.
Specifically, a sub-committee of the Audit Committee monitors the replacement was required.
This programme of work is expected to take a progress of the largest programme Evolve and receives regular reports from management, Risk and Internal Audit and other specialists.
number of years to complete.
The Board is aware of the risks faced by any organisation seeking to successfully implement new systems.
Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 29 Mitigation To reduce the chances of this happening and also to reduce the impact of such an event if it were to happen, we have developed recovery plans Business interruption and invested in the creation of a remote IT disaster recovery site.
If a major incident occurred to this infrastructure or another key facility, this could have a detrimental impact on the businesss ability to operate effectively.
Recognising the importance of formulating and implementing a successful strategy, the strategy is developed by the Chief Executive and senior Business strategy executives.
It is considered and approved by the Board, which takes time each year to review and monitor its delivery through formal time set In the long term, effectively managing the strategic risks that the Group aside for this purpose.
This continual process helps to ensure that it remains relevant and improves if the strategy and vision are not properly formulated or communicated, then the likelihood of success.
The Groups employment policies, remuneration and benefits packages are designed to be competitive with other companies, as well as Colleague engagement and retention to provide colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
The continued success of the Group relies heavily on the investment in The Group continually engages with colleagues across the business to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
Further information is available in our Corporate responsibility review responsible corporate citizen or misjudge the mood of the nation, this at www.
co. uk cr could damage our reputation and, therefore, potentially lose the trust of our stakeholders and increase costs.
The business uses data and analysis to provide insights that help explain what customer needs and wants are.
This informs product ranging, Customer proposition marketing, advertising and also the location of stores.
If we fail to keep our proposition aligned with customers expectations, then they may choose not to shop with us and sales will suffer.
The Groups treasury operations are controlled centrally by the Treasury Committee in accordance with clearly defined policies and procedures Financial and treasury that have been authorised by the Board.
The Treasury Committee has certain approved delegated authorities and reports twice a year to the The main financial risks that the Group is exposed to relate to the availability Audit Committee on its activities.
As a manufacturer of food products, we have established strict standards and monitoring processes to manage the risks associated with food Food and product safety safety throughout our Group and its supply chain.
Our food manufacturing businesses are ISO 22000 accredited, which provides an effective We are aware that, if we fail to deliver excellent standards of hygiene framework for the control of internal processes.
Food hygiene practices are taken very seriously throughout our Group, and are monitored and safety in our products, there is a potential to harm our customers both through internal audit procedures and external bodies such as environmental health departments.
We also maintain regular supplier and damage our business reputation.
Our stock withdrawal procedures operate throughout our supply chain to minimise and we have a vertically integrated business model: therefore, food safety the impact to customers of any supplier recalls.
The business is growing the size of its retail space through acquisition and by modernising and extending existing stores and facilities.
If we fail to adequately grow our space in an earnings enhancing way, we will lose market share and our profits will suffer.
These regulations include alcohol licensing, health and safety, the handling of hazardous materials, data protection, the rules of the stock exchange and competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very seriously, and recognises that breach of regulation can lead to reputational and financial damage to the Group.
