Wolseley plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk management and internal control Strategic clarity a focus on the risks What has this meant in practice this year?
that matter The Board Level 4 formally reviewed its strategic plans andobjectives in May and subsequently approved Group Wolseleys strategy remains unchanged.
Our process of company budgets and strategies in light of these.
It regularly top-down resource allocation to those businesses which are monitors the implementation of strategy and the financial capable ofmarket leadership will give us the best returns.
Detailed business unit strategies, built from the bottom up, will help our best businesses to grow faster than the On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee reviews key competition.
We will focus on customer service, operational risks and controls in March and September each year.
efficiency, developing employees, and our vendor Thisyear, the Audit Committee added a further review of relationships and expanding gross margins.
theGroups risk management practices to its programme.
The Committee receives frequent reports regarding the This top-down and bottom-up approach to strategy is findings from internal audits.
More information on the mirrored in our risk management processes.
We have a clear activities undertaken by the Board and its Committees, view at Board and Executive level of the principal risks facing including the Audit Committee, are contained in the the Group, combined with information from the business Governance section on page 62. units on the most significant risks affecting each region.
During the year under review, Internal Audit Level 3 has reviewed and tested controls in a number of financial and Our risk management non-financial risk areas.
These include health and safety framework four levels of defence compliance and the robustness of health and safety data: The four levels of defence against which we review significant the accuracy of aspects of monthly financial reporting: risks are shown below: compliance with the UK Bribery Act in the UK, contract compliance and the governance and financial control at theCompanys captive insurance company.
Level 1 Front line business operations managing risk on Corporate functions Level 2 are continually improving their adailybasis.
oversight of risk in several areas in support of our corporate goals.
Examples in the year under review include: the use of monthly financial reporting checklists by Finance Level 2 teams to highlight areas of non-compliance to business Corporate oversight functions monitoring performance unit Finance teams: andrisk.
a comprehensive survey of product integrity in all areas of the business was undertaken by the Group Legal team, Level 3 quality assurance and sourcing experts: Independent assurance and testing that controls are health and safety performance is monitored quarterly working as planned, e. g. internal or external audit.
bythe Executive Committee and the Board.
Front line business operations Level 1 take preventative Level 4 action to mitigate operational risks on a daily basis Oversight and direction from the Board and its throughout the year.
Specic activities this year have Committees.
included: self-assessments of health and safety in all branches: employee engagement surveys completed for a second year in all businesses: improvements made to physical infrastructure and properties following over 20 audits of key sites and locations around the Group: and testing and exercising of business continuity and IT disasterplans in the United States and the United Kingdom, including faster recovery times for key ITsystemsin the United States.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 significant risks facing the business Risk Conference 2012 bringing it all together The nature of the industry in which we operate and our This years event was hosted by Ferguson at its chosen strategy expose the Company to a number of risks.
headquarters in Virginia, and focused on product integrity, There are areas of the Groups business where it is health and safety, treasury, bribery, corruption and necessary to take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for property risks.
The Board has considered the nature and The UK business introduced its successful health and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving safety self-assessment system, known as Go Green, the Groups strategic objectives.
These key risks, their level StayGreen.
The Ferguson security team outlined and trend are summarised in the table below.
improvements in their data mining capability, which has recovered a significant amount of lost revenue in the first Market conditions 73 few months of operation.
Treasury teams from around the Margin erosion 73 Group reviewed new practices in commodity and credit risk management.
The business continuity and insurance Litigation 73 teams at Ferguson provided real-life experiences of Employee motivation and retention recovering from two tornados in 2011.
73 Board members and the Group CEO provided a Systems and infrastructure capabilities 73 top-downview on risk.
Members of the Internal Audit team andresilience highlighted how their risk-based audits linked to the work Governmental regulations undertaken by risk specialists attending the conference.
Inherent risk level before controls High inherent risks p Medium inherent risks p Low inherent risks p Risk is rising 1 Risk is stable 73 Risk is falling 5 The materialisation of these risks could have an adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
If more than one of these risks occur, the combined overall effect ofsuch events may be compounded.
Various mitigation strategies are employed to reduce these inherent risks toanacceptable level these are summarised on the following pages.
This year, liquidity and funding risks have been removed from the list of principal risks in light of the Groups strengthened financial performance, net debt levels and funding arrangements.
Capital expenditure and return on investment risks have also been removed in light of lower risk levels and stronger controls.
Some risk factors remain beyond the direct control of the Company and the risk management programme can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that key risks are managed to an acceptable level.
The Company faces many other risks which, although important and subject to regular review, have been assessed as less significant and are not listed here.
These include, forexample, treasury or health and safety related risks.
Further information on financial risks and their management is contained on page 41.
More information on health and safety can be found on page 53.
Wolseley plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk management and internal control continued Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation Market conditions The Groups results depend on the levels The Company believes it has effective measures in place 73 of activity in new construction and to respond to market conditions.
Our mitigation strategy property repair and remodelling markets.
is to reinforce existing measures in place.
These include: Inherent risk level In light of the debt levels in Europe and High resource allocation processes: concerns about the USA recovery, Trend Stable therecontinues to be a risk that markets planning, budgeting and forecasting processes: may uctuate rapidly or experience debt reduction and renancing: furtherdownturns.
Factors inuencing thisrisk include: cost reduction, pricing and gross margin management initiatives, including a focus on the general rate of GDP growth: customer service and productivity improvement: consumer confidence: diversication into the sectors, such as commercial the availability of credit to finance and industrial, which have proved more robust: and customer investment: improvements in monthly management information.
mortgage and other interest rates: Measures introduced in the last 12 months include the the level of government initiatives to disposal of businesses where the Company cannot stimulate economic activity: establish a market leading position in attractive markets.
Such operations included Bathstore and Build Center ination: and inthe UK and Brossette in France.
also announced its intention to explore strategic options for its other businesses in France.
These factors are out of the Groups control and are difficult to forecast.
The quality of monthly management information has been improved to enable businesses to better identify Traditional processes for producing and respond to changes in the business environment.
management information may need enhancing to enable the Company to respond to such rapidly-changing markets.
Margin erosion Market conditions continued to increase The Company continues to reinforce the mitigation 73 competition during the period under actions in place.
Gross margin improvement initiatives review, which, if not mitigated, could remain a priority for all businesses.
Inherent risk level leadto downward pressure on sales High We believe that high levels of customer service and pricesand profit margins.
product availability play a fundamental role in maintaining Trend Stable There is a risk that such competitive competitive advantage.
The Group has continued with pressures will continue and could be its programme of work to improve levels of customer exacerbated by factors such as levels service and inventory.
ofeconomic activity, customer or supplier A number of local initiatives have been undertaken by consolidation, manufacturers shipping Wolseley businesses in the last 12 months, including: directly to customers, other changes intheroute to market, and changes improved analysis of monthly margin performance intechnology.
atGroup and business unit level: dedicated gross margin initiatives and expense reduction programmes in Canada: improved transparency on performance and incentives in the USA through the use of an innovative software tool: improved claims management in the UK businesses: and improved supplier pricing terms in the Nordic region.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation Litigation The international nature of Wolseleys Levels of litigation are monitored by individual operating 73 operations exposes it to the potential for companies and by Group functions.
litigation from third parties, and such Inherent risk level To reduce its exposure to product-related claims, the exposure is considered to be greater Medium high Company has this year launched a major Product intheUSA than in Europe.
This included a refreshed policy Trend Stable Wolseleys strengths include its employees, and set of requirements to which all businesses must its products and the terms it negotiates adhere, as well as a programme of risk assessments with its suppliers.
It is in these areas and KPIs for major product categories.
Further information is provided on page 59. wherethe potential risk of litigation may begreatest.
The Company has been reviewing and improving itsworking practices especially in the United States Although the number of claims made against the Company has increased andFrance in light of the more complex labour laws slightly during the year, there has been inthosecountries.
nomaterial change in the level of exposure In the case of claims related to exposure to asbestos, to the Group.
For more information on Wolseley employs independent professional advisers specic litigation affecting the Company, toactuarially determine its potential gross liability.
Wolseley has insurance which exceeds the current estimated liability relating to asbestos claims.
This year the Company has also improved the general liability insurance cover it procures.
Employee motivation and retention Wolseleys ability to provide leadership An updated, comprehensive People Strategy was 73 andproducts and services to customers approved by the Board in 2011.
This sets out key depends on retaining sufciently qualied, principles and practices for people management, which Inherent risk level experienced and motivated personnel.
operating companies will implement in their businesses.
Medium Specic examples of activity in business units includes: In order to increase productivity, and be Trend Stable able to take growth opportunities when reviews of succession planning and improved markets improve, Wolseley must maintain interview processes in Canada: and the skills and experience of its existing a new leadership skills programme in Wolseley UK.
management and continue to develop themanagers of the future.
Effective personal performance management underpins this strategy.
The quality of individuals performance While staff turnover rates are stable at reviews is being monitored and improved in all areas present the current difficult conditions ofthe business.
experienced in certain markets, and theGroups response to them, may The Company monitors voluntary turnover rates demotivate remaining staff.
Further metrics willbe put in place in the coming year.
Succession planning exercises are undertaken each year, along with a review of the Companys most talented and promising individuals.
Career mobility has been increased, providing more staffwith the opportunity to work in different areas oftheGroup.
The Group continues to invest in development programmes for senior leadership, managers andallother staff.
Wolseley plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk management and internal control continued Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation Systems and infrastructure capabilities and resilience The Group can only carry on business as Core IT systems and data centres for the Nordics, 73 long as it has the information technology USAand UK have documented disaster recovery plans and the physical infrastructure to do so.
Inherent risk level Medium The safe and continued operation of such In the United States, significant improvements have systems and infrastructure is threatened been made in the recovery times for core systems and Trend Stable by natural and man-made perils and is our business there has been certied as Payment Card affected by the level of investment Industry compliant.
For example: External reviews have been conducted of data centres some of the Companys physical assets in the UK and Denmark, and recommendations for improvement are being addressed.
are located in areas exposed to natural catastrophe risks: The Company operates an IT governance framework we remain reliant on a number of including dedicated IT security policies.
Specic different technology systems across operational controls for IT security include intrusion theGroup, some of which have been prevention and detection, penetration testing, wireless operating for many years: remediation of issues, log and conguration management and in-ight projects to reduce the to optimise costs and supply chain likelihood of an incident.
efficiency, some companies within the Wolseley Group have also centralised The Company has made initial investments in software their distribution network and are to improve its ability to identify and recover data.
therefore reliant on a smaller number The loss of a physical site is naturally hedged by oflarger distribution centres: and thediversied nature of our locations, customers the level and sophistication of IT security andsuppliers.
The Company has formally documented and tested plans for those distribution centres, head ofce buildings and data centres where the risk is deemed to be greatest.
A comprehensive insurance programme is purchased, including coverage for cyber risks.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Inherent risk and trend Denition Mitigation Governmental regulations The Groups operations are affected by The Group monitors regulations across its markets various statutes, regulations and laws toensure that the effects of changes are minimised inthe countries and markets in which it andthat compliance with all applicable regulation Inherent risk level operates.
The amount of such regulation iscontinually sought.
Medium low and the penalties can change.
During the course of the year, a number of initiatives Trend Rising While the Group is not engaged in a highly were undertaken to respond to new or updated laws regulated industry, it is subject to the laws and regulations.
These include, for instance, the governing businesses generally, including continual review and improvement of anti-fraud laws relating to competition, international andanti-bribery procedures.
trade, corruption and fraud, land usage, The Company has been monitoring the progress of the zoning, the environment, health and safety, EU Late Payment Directive.
Initial analysis has been transportation, labour and employment completed and the Company is well prepared to adapt practices including pensions, data ifnecessary.
protection, payment terms and othermatters.
The Groups compliance with laws to prevent anti-competitive behaviour and tocombat bribery and corruption remain a priority.
Building codes or particular tax treatments may affect the products Wolseleys customers are allowed to use and, consequently, changes in these may affect the saleability of some Wolseley products.
