How we comply Managing our risks Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has considered the principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group as at 31 December 2012 and up to the date of this report.
The Group has specific policies in place to ensure that risks are properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate level within the Group.
Issue Potential impact How it is managed Clients The Group competes for clients in Competitors include large multinational advertising Operating companies seek to establish ahighly-competitive industry and andmarketing communication companies and regional reputations in the industry that attract client loss may have a material and national marketing services companies, database and retain clients, including by improving adverse effect on the Groups marketing and modelling companies, telemarketers the quality of their creative output.
market share and its business, andinternet companies.
The Groups different agency networks revenues, results of operations, Service agreements with clients are generally terminable limit potential conflicts of interest and financial condition or prospects.
by the client on 90 days notice and many clients put the Groups cross-discipline team their advertising and communications business up for approach seeks to retain clients.
competitive review from time to time.
The ability to Brand Check at every Board meeting.
attract new clients and to retain or increase the amount of work from existing clients may also in some cases belimited by clients policies on conflicts of interest.
The Group receives a significant A relatively small number of clients contribute a Global client account managers seek to portion of its revenues from a limited significant percentage of the Groups consolidated ensure the Group maintains partnership number of large clients and the revenues.
The Groups 10 largest clients accounted for relationship with major clients.
lossof these clients could have 17.4% of revenues in the year ended 31 December 2012.
Operating companies seek to establish amaterial adverse effect on the Clients generally are able to reduce advertising and reputations in the industry that attract Groups prospects, business, financial marketing spend or cancel projects on short notice.
and retain clients and key talent.
condition and results of operations.
Theloss of one or more of the Groups largest clients, Brand Check at every Board meeting ifnotreplaced by new client accounts or an increase and regular dialogue between directors inbusiness from existing clients, would adversely affect of the Company and directors of the theGroups financial condition.
Economic The Groups businesses are subject Reduction in client spending or postponing spending Reduction in headcount and overheads.
onthe services offered by the Group or switching of client Ensuring that variable staff costs are a Many of the economies in which expenditure to non-traditional media and renegotiation significant proportion of total staff costs the Group operates including the of contract terms can lead to reduced profitability and and revenue.
Eurozone currently have significant cash flow.
Increased controls over capital economic challenges.
Strategic focus on BRICs, the Next 11, new media and consumer insight.
Consideration of the impact on the Group if certain countries left the Euro, or in the event the Euro was devalued.
Brand Check at every Board meeting.
162 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Financial Currency exchange rate The Companys reporting currency is pounds sterling.
The Group hedges the currency element fluctuations could adversely impact Given the Groups significant international operations, of its net assets using foreign currency the Groups consolidated results.
fluctuations in currency exchange rates can affect the borrowings, cross-currency swaps and Groups consolidated results.
Thebalance sheet and cash flows of theCompany are hedged by borrowing in the currency of those cash flows.
The Company publishes and explains its results in constant currency terms, aswell as in sterling and on an actual dollar basis.
The interest rates and fees payable The Companys long-term debt is currently rated Baa2 Active dialogue with the rating agencies by the Group in respect of certain byMoodys and BBB by Standard and Poors and the to ensure they are fully apprised of any ofits borrowings are, in part, Companys short-term debt obligations P2 and A2 actions that may affect the Companys influenced by the credit ratings respectively.
If the Companys financial performance debt ratings.
The Company also seeks to issued by the international debt and outlook materially deteriorate, a ratings downgrade manage its financial ratios and to pursue rating agencies.
could occur and the interest rates and fees payable on policies so as to maintain its investment certain of the Companys revolving credit facilities and grade ratings.
certain of the Groups bonds could be increased.
The Group is subject to credit risk The Group is generally paid in arrears for its services.
Evaluating and monitoring clients through the default of a client or Invoices are typically payable within 30 to 60 days.
ongoing creditworthiness and in some other counterparty.
cases requiring credit insurance or The Group commits to media and production purchases payments in advance.
on behalf of some of its clients as principal or agent depending on the client and market circumstances.
If a client is unable to pay sums due, media and production companies may look to the Group to pay such amounts to which it committed as an agent on behalf of those clients.
Mergers & Acquisitions The Group may be unsuccessful in The Group regularly reviews potential acquisitions of Business, legal, tax and financial due evaluating material risks involved businesses that are complementary to its operations diligence carried out prior to acquisition incompleted and future acquisitions andclients needs.
If material risks are not identified prior to seek to identify and evaluate and may be unsuccessful in to acquisition or the Group experiences difficulties in material risks and plan the integration integrating any acquired operations integrating an acquired business, it may not realise process.
Warranties and indemnities with its existing businesses.
theexpected benefits from such an acquisition and the included in purchase agreements.
Groups financial condition could be adversely affected.
Audit Committee oversight of acquisition and Board oversight of material acquisitions and review oftheintegration and performance ofrecent and prior acquisitions.
Goodwill and other intangible The Group has a significant amount of goodwill and Regular impairment testing which assets recorded on the Groups other intangible assets recorded on its balance sheet isarecurring agenda item for the balance sheet with respect to with respect to acquired companies.
acquired companies may tests the carrying value of goodwill and other intangibles becomeimpaired.
The estimates and assumptions about results of operations and cash flows made in connection with impairment testing could differ from future results ofoperations and cash flows.
Future events could cause the Group to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation have become impaired whichcould have a material impact on the Groups financialcondition.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 163 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Operational The Group operates in 110 countries The Groups international operations are subject to Affiliate, associate and joint venture and is exposed to the risks of doing thefollowing risk factors: i restrictions and or changes structures with local partners used business internationally.
intaxation on repatriation of earnings: ii economic, indeveloping markets.
socialor political instability within different countries, Brand Check at every Board meeting.
regions and markets: iii changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements, such as those on foreign Uniform approach to internal controls ownership of assets or data usage: and iv uncertainty toseek to ensure best practice or potential ineffectiveness or lack of enforcement in employed in all jurisdictions.
relation to the Groups client service agreements or othercontractual rights.
People The Groups performance could be The Group is highly dependent on the talent, creative The Groups incentive plans are adversely affected if it were unable abilities and technical skills of our personnel as well as structured to provide retention value, to attract and retain key talent or their relationships with clients.
The Group is vulnerable to forexample by paying part of annual had inadequate talent management the loss of personnel to competitors and clients leading to incentives in shares that vest two years and succession planning for key disruption to the business.
Operating companies seek to establishreputations in the industry thatattract and retain key personnel, including by improving the quality oftheir creative output.
Succession planning of key executives isa recurring agenda item of the Boardand Nomination and Governance Committee.
164 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 How we comply Managing our risks Issue Potential impact How it is managed Regulatory Legal The Group may be subject to Governments, government agencies and industry The Group actively monitors any regulations restricting its activities self-regulatory bodies from time to time adopt statutes proposed regulatory or statutory oreffecting changes in taxation.
and regulations that directly or indirectly affect the form, changes and consults with government content and scheduling of advertising, public relations agencies and regulatory bodies where and public affairs and market research or otherwise limit possible on such proposed changes.
the scope of the activities of the Group and its clients Regular briefings to the Audit which could have a material adverse impact on our Committee of significant regulatory financial position.
Changes in tax laws and international orstatutory changes.
tax treaties or their application may also adversely affect the Groups reported results.
Group representation on a number ofindustry advisory bodies.
The Group may be exposed to The Group works for a large number of clients across The Group seeks to comply with all liabilities from allegations that abroad spectrum of industries and end markets, lawsand industry codes governing certain of its clients advertising someofwhich may become subject to litigation.
claims may be false or misleading Asaconsequence of providing services to such clients, Upward referral procedure within or that its clients products may theGroup may itself become involved as a defendant operating companies and to WPP bedefective or harmful.
inlitigation brought against its clients by third parties, ethical review meetings.
including its clients, competitors or consumers or governmental or regulatory authorities.
The Group is subject to strict The Group may be exposed to liabilities in the event of Online and in-country ethics and anti-corruption and anti-bribery breaches of anti-corruption and anti-bribery legislation anti-bribery and corruption training on legislation and enforcement in in all of the 110 countries in which it operates.
a Group-wide basis to raise awareness thecountries in which it operates.
and seek compliance with the WPP Code of Conduct.
Confidential helpline for WPP staff toraise any concerns which are investigated and reported to the AuditCommittee on a regular basis.
Due diligence on selecting and appointing suppliers and acquisitions.
Gift and hospitality register and approvals process.
The Group is subject to strict data The Group may be subject to investigative or The Group assists the operating protection and privacy legislation enforcement action or legal claims or incur fines, companies in developing principles in the jurisdictions in which it damages, or costs if the Group fails adequately to protect onprivacy and data protection and operates and relies extensively data or observe privacy legislation in every instance.
Asystem breakdown or intrusion could have a material Nominated senior executives The Group operates on a largely adverse effect on the Groups business, revenues, results provideleadership on privacy decentralised basis with a large of operations, financial condition or prospects.
number of different agencies and operating entities and the resulting Implemented a WPP Data Code of size and diversity of the operational Conduct and new WPP policies on systems increases the vulnerability dataprivacy and security.
of such systems to breakdown ormalicious intrusion.
Rolled out Group-wide WPP Data Health Checker which is an interactive survey to understand the scale and breadth ofdata collected by WPP agencies, so level of risk associated with this can beassessed.
