40 Reviews Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties We recognise that effective risk management is fundamental to helping achieve our strategic objectives.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 41 The Group risk committee, chaired The Board believes that for risk It is intended that these principles by the chief executive officer, oversees management to be successful, it must be adopted throughout the Group, the operation of the Groups risk integrate the framework into all activities without exception, to achieve progressive management framework and provides and develop a culture within the improvement in the effectiveness of risk support to the Board and the organisation that ensures: management processes.
s the management of risk is clearly driven We have a number of potential risks and from business strategy and objectives This framework supports the systematic uncertainties which could have a material s group functions assist management identication, assessment and impact on our long term performance.
in setting minimum standards across management of risk at all levels, Many of these risks are common to the Group and seeks to ensure that: other companies and we assess them s the ownership and management of risk to establish the principal risks for the s the public, employees and the is not just the exclusive responsibility Group.
The following table outlines environment are safe from potential of senior management, but is passed these principal risks and the mitigating hazards inherent in our operations down to appropriate staff members activities.
We assess them under two main s the potential for damage to our categories of strategic and operational.
s all significant risks have mitigating corporate reputation, or financial loss strategies and action owners to shareholders and other stakeholders, Effective risk management is embedded are identied is minimised.
in our governance framework, which is s operational risks are fully articulated explained in the Corporate Governance and subject to regular review across Report pages 64 to 72. the organisation as part of our normal management process s we operate in a culture that encourages disclosure of issues or concerns, so that timely and appropriate action can be agreed and implemented as necessary.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 42 Reviews Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Mitigating activities in action Economic outlook Continuing and increased government We have increased our sector and geographic We have already reshaped our business austerity measures impact our trading diversication to provide resilience at a time to achieve more than 50% of our revenue performance as spending on public sector when many of our markets still experience outside the UK.
Our medium term goal infrastructure is reduced.
We have a clear strategic priority is to generate more than 75% of revenue to focus on sectors which have attractive from our non UK and Energy businesses.
Worsening economic conditions lead to growth prospects with good levels of funding.
reduced levels of private sector infrastructure We have added resilience to our UK spend and adversely impact our clients We actively seek to redeploy staff around the business through its ongoing support ability to pay for our services.
Group to meet demand in growth markets for overseas projects.
and sectors, frequently moving work to people and people to work.
We perform client credit checks and maintain regular management reviews of credit terms, Our Strategy.
Pages 16-19 debt and work in progress.
Financial The deterioration of the Groups financial We review the Groups trading and funding We have announced the successful execution position limits our ability to invest in growth.
position on an ongoing basis.
of the Groups debut issue in the US private placement market which has broadened the Adverse movements in liability assumptions We have made good progress in implementing Groups sources of funding to support or asset values result in a significant increase our strategy to continue to fide-risk our dened future growth.
in the Groups dened benefit pension benefit pension schemes.
We will continue obligations increasing the cash funding to actively manage the assets and liabilities During the year we completed a consultation required to repay the deficit and of our pension schemes.
with members of the dened benefit section reducing our ability to invest in further of the Atkins Pension Plan the Plan who growth opportunities.
had prior accrued rights that were revalued annually in line with changes in salary.
As a result of the changes agreed with each member during the consultation process, these staff have become deferred members of the Plan.
We also undertook an enhanced transfer value exercise for deferred members of the Plan.
Pages 44-49 Pages 36-39 Geo-political Political instability in the regions within which We have focused on geographies that have we operate negatively impacts our ability to more stable trading environments.
deliver contractual services, receive payment We obtain the latest professional risk and and endangers the safety of our staff.
security information before engaging in contracts in new geographies and continue to monitor the stability of the markets in which we trade.
Market Worsening economic conditions lead to We have robust review procedures, which We are driving operational performance changes in contracts resulting in increased include peer reviews, during the bidding across the Group to improve our margins.
risk transfer from clients as competitors and contracting stage of our projects.
Our operational excellence programme, accept more onerous contract terms together with increasing use of our We have focused our strategy on sectors to win work.
Bangalore operations, aim to deliver with strong growth prospects, good levels of a competitive cost base.
Reductions in the amount of available work funding and high technical barriers to entry.
increases pricing pressure and reduces our We have a strategic focus on operational operating margins.
Regulatory Legal Legislation and regulations restrict our ability We seek ongoing external advice as to operate in certain locations or perform to new and or changing trading restrictions, certain activities leading to the need to exit communicating these changes across these markets.
Breaches of regulation or legislation We continue to invest in staff training and result in fines, imprisonment and communication.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews 43 Nothing is more urgent or more important than safety and security on our project sites and in our workplaces Operational Risk in alphabetical order Mitigation Mitigating activities in action Crisis event A significant one-off event affecting a key We have a robust Group crisis management During the year we tested the robustness of business location, project or employees plan in place to respond quickly to our plan with a simulated incident involving could interrupt service delivery, threaten such events.
life and or causes reputational damage to our business.
Health, safety and environmental Shortcomings in our design or works Safety is part of our commitment to quality Our worldwide awareness programme, supervision result in a health, safety or and reliability.
Clear and explicit senior Safe by Choice, is just one example of our environmental incident involving staff, management leadership on health, safety commitment to creating a leading health clients or other third parties leading to and environmental matters is regularly and safety culture.
injury, loss of life and or significant damage reinforced via targeted campaigns.
to our reputation with all stakeholders.
We have implemented our safety standards worldwide.
We mandate accident and near-miss reporting and provide a whistleblower hotline to enable staff to raise concerns condentially.
We continue to invest in staff training and communication about the importance of Corporate responsibility.
Pages 50-57 safety and security in the work place.
Physical and data security Condential client, business and personal We use appropriate physical security, secure During the year we launched a new data is mishandled resulting in breach networks and encryption to protect data.
information assurance training module of contract, the inappropriate release of for UK based staff.
We train staff on best practice in information commercially sensitive information or the assurance.
loss of the personal information of our clients and or employees.
The Group Security officer seeks to ensure best practice and raise the prole of security Our business systems suffer an attack across the business.
Political instability in the regions within which we operate threatens the safety of our employees.
Projects Poor management of projects leads to client We have continued to augment our Business We have increased our investment in project dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation Management Systems by the introduction management capabilities.
for technical excellence and a deterioration of a new online project management system in the Groups financial performance.
to drive consistently high standards across the Group.
We invest in ongoing project management training for our staff.
We continue to improve project controls which include regular financial reviews of Human resources review.
Staff recruitment and retention Failure to attract and retain the most Regular business reviews evaluate a number We are targeting an intake of over 500 talented, motivated professionals in their of metrics including headcount, retention, graduates in 2012, the largest in our history.
respective elds makes us unable to deliver vacancy levels and employees engagement.
Engagement is essential in a people based on clients expectations and respond business.
We use a variety of channels to the most technically challenging and including our annual Viewpoint survey.
time critical projects thereby eroding our market share and damaging our Human resources review.
Technical delivery Design errors or omissions lead to client Robust review procedures during the bidding dissatisfaction, financial losses, damage to and contracting stage to ensure that the our technical reputation and market position.
Group has the capability to deliver the scope of work.
Ongoing technical training and development.
Appointment of network chairs to provide technical centres of excellence across the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Reviews
