Risk management Risk is inevitable in business: it goes hand-in-hand with opportunity.
But it is possible to manage risk.
We have created a risk management system that allows us to pursue business opportunities and grow shareholder value as well as developing and protecting our people, our assets, our environment and our reputation.
Our comprehensive risk management system has been implemented across our businesses.
Its processes are dened within a risk framework that is well understood across all operations.
Managing risk is a continuous challenge.
Self-assessment is on-going within each business unit to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks, and results are regularly updated on our Group risk registers.
Each commodity business and corporate function is required to undertake a comprehensive annual risk review.
These results are then implemented into the annual business plans presented for Board approval.
Progress against these plans, significant changes in the units risk prole and actions taken to control and mitigate risks are reported regularly to its audit committee, the Group Audit Committee, the Executive Committee and our Board.
Many risks inherent in an international mining business will always exist.
The challenge is to manage them effectively.
Our principal risks relate to operational challenges, mining activities and project management, and include health, safety, environmental and community risks.
We also face risks associated with commodity price and currency exposure and the management challenge to deliver on investor expectations.
The principal risks and uncertainties that may impact our ability to execute our stated business strategy are detailed on the following pages.
They have been assessed according to materiality, likelihood and the residual risk after controls have been implemented.
Risk Impact Mitigation Commodity price volatility Our revenues and earnings are dependent The impact that uctuations in the price of We maintain a diversied portfolio of on prevailing commodity prices which are our commodities had on our operating profit commodities to reduce the impact of price determined by the supply of, and demand is detailed in the consolidated operational movement in any one commodity.
We do not for, raw materials and are closely linked to results section of the Financial review.
typically implement large-scale hedging of global economic growth.
Instead, we aim commodity prices, and particularly those to continually reduce costs and maintain lowfor exchange-traded commodities, may cost, efficient operations while optimising our uctuate widely.
portfolio and returns throughout the commodity price cycle.
We maintain an investment grade credit rating.
Our Group Treasury policy is actively monitored and reported to our Executive Committee on a monthly basis.
All our debt is now covenant-free, which reduces our financial risk during periods of low prices.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Our products are generally priced in US Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly We maintain a diversied portfolio of assets dollars while our operations and operating movements in the Australian dollar, Canadian across several geographies and operating costs are spread across 20 countries with dollar and South African rand against the US currencies to reduce the impact of price uctuating currencies.
dollar, may have a material impact on our movement in any one commodity.
We may financial results or affect our investment use currency cash ow hedging to reduce our grade credit rating.
short-term exposure to uctuations in the US dollar against local currencies.
The impact of exchange rate uctuations on our operating profits and average exchange We regularly review our financial structure, rate comparisons are detailed in the including exposure to interest payments, consolidated operational results section interest-rate changes and amendments of the Financial review.
to taxation regulations, to ensure that we comply with all relevant regulations and to maximise our financial efficiency.
com Risk Impact Mitigation Political and scal intervention Our operations and projects span 20 Political risk can adversely impact our We manage a broad geographic spread countries.
Some of these have complex and profitability in various geographies or at of assets, thereby diversifying political risk.
unstable political or social climates and, as certain operations.
Changes to the political, A thorough risk assessment is conducted a result, present higher risks.
Political risks community or scal structure of a country on any country where we are considering range from changes in legislation or could render it an unsuitable location for investments or activities.
We regularly review regulation: taxes or royalties: expropriation efficient operations or the development of political, regulatory and social risk within the of assets: infrastructure issues: currency new projects and impact investor confidence.
countries in which we operate to ensure that restrictions: and renegotiation of, or these have been identied and are being changes to, mining leases and permits.
managed to within acceptable levels.
We follow and address all changes to legislation and ensure we are compliant at all times with new laws and regulations and with the standards set out in our Sustainable Development Framework.
We work in partnership with our people and local communities to ensure we all share the benets of our success, thereby earning and maintaining a social licence to operate.
We regularly review investment terms in joint venture and partnership agreements to ensure fairness and reduce the risk of renegotiation.
Security of energy supplies Increasing global demand and limited new The price of energy greatly impacts our We constantly assess and monitor energysupplies impacts the price and availability operating costs because many of our related risks and regularly revisit and revise of energy.
Many factors that reduce the operations and facilities are intensive users of assumptions.
At the design stage of our reliability of energy supply or increase energy natural gas, oil and other fuels.
Constrained projects we assess risks associated with prices are beyond our control.
These include energy supplies may impact our ability to energy supply.
Energy efficiency plans have strong demand from the Asia Pacic region: operate, or threaten planned operational been implemented across our operations.
political, regulatory and economic expansions or the development of new We have developed proprietary energy uncertainties: costs associated with emissions mines.
Approximately 10% of our total generation facilities, such as a gas-red from fossil fuels: and problems related to operating costs relate to energy.
power plant at the Mount Isa mines.
We local generation and transmission of power, have also developed energy-efficient such as electricity constraints in South Africa technologies.
Xstrata Alloys proprietary and natural gas shortages in Chile.
We are Premus technology reduces the energy sometimes dependent on one energy consumption of ferrochrome smelting by company, such as Eskom in South Africa.
more than 20% compared to conventional processes.
We are also pursuing the recovery of existing resources, such as capturing coal methane for electricity generation, and exploring opportunities to use lower-carbon power sources.
We negotiate long-term energy contracts to reduce dependence on spot markets and continuously seek to diversify power sources and identify alternatives.
com 17 Risk management continued Risk Impact Mitigation Emissions and climate change regulations We operate in several jurisdictions in which Climate change related legislation may result Our management place a high priority on legislation to limit or reduce emissions has in direct financial and production costs, climate change issues and are committed been introduced or is being considered.
higher energy costs or even restricted energy to measuring, controlling and reducing our Climate change related legislation could lead supply, which could have a material adverse impact.
We seek ways to understand our to increased costs for fossil fuels, electricity impact on our ability to maintain production carbon footprint and reduce the carbon and transportation, restricted industrial or contain operating costs.
Failing to meet intensity of our operations and activities.
emissions, the imposition of charges for and exceed best practice for monitoring and We undertake studies to better understand emissions in excess of permitted levels and reporting our emissions will have a potential physical and weather related risks expenditure on monitoring, reporting and reputational impact.
of climate change on our operations and accounting.
Our customers and suppliers are logistics, and incorporate findings into our As the worlds largest producer of export becoming increasingly aware of their own longer-term planning.
thermal coal, we will be materially adversely carbon and water footprints and are selecting impacted by any significant decline in the use Xstrata Coal actively invests in and advocates partners who are actively reducing their of coal as a power source as a result of government support for research and impact on the environment.
carbon taxes, emissions trading or development projects to reduce greenhouse similar legislation.
gas GHG emissions from the use of coal in power generation.
Project development Part of our three-pronged business strategy Any restriction on our ability to develop Cost control is the key to project rests on organic growth from a pipeline our pipeline of projects and replace older development.
Our commodity businesses of projects across many countries.
Their operations with new, lower cost supply have an excellent track record of delivering development can be affected by many will impact future revenues, costs and major capital growth projects both on time factors: some are outside our control.
We also benefit from extensive project development experience Severe shortages of resources required within our management teams.
to complete projects, such as labour, equipment and raw materials, can create an Each business has a comprehensive project inationary environment which would impact approval process that governs every stage, our ability to control associated costs.
from approval to commissioning, and includes future scenario planning.
This ensures that material risks are comprehensively assessed and, where possible, mitigated before the project proceeds to its next phase.
We have an embedded Internal Audit focus on project development, which includes an early warning system to ensure projects are on track.
Talent management recruitment and retention Increased demand for commodities and Our future success will be dependent on our We aim to attract and retain the best people higher commodity prices have led to greater ability to attract and retain highly skilled and at every level of our business.
The strategy for investment in the mining industry and, as a qualied personnel.
Production and project how we will meet our personnel requirements result, increased competition to recruit and development will be affected if we are is regularly discussed at Board and Executive retain a limited number of experienced and unable to attract the right people to Committee level.
We regularly review and qualied people.
The development of our our business.
adapt our recruitment and retention pipeline of organic growth projects requires programmes to reect changes in the Our lean management structure is large-scale recruitment programmes to labour market.
dependent on a small number of key attract new employees to our business.
The loss of any of these We provide our people with industry-leading individuals could signicantly disrupt career development opportunities, wellour business.
structured employment contracts, competitive remuneration and incentives and fair and nondiscriminatory workplaces.
We believe that our devolved management structure, coupled with our support for entrepreneurial initiative, offers unparalleled career development opportunities and is a key retention feature.
Each of our people can play an active role in our success.
Fast track and executive development programmes are in place and formal succession planning is regularly reviewed.
com Risk Impact Mitigation Social and community Our operations and the development Projects could be delayed without broad We work with affected communities to of our project pipeline can impact local local community support, impacting future identify and evaluate their needs and communities.
On occasion, communities may operating profit, development costs and concerns at every stage of a projects need to be resettled or local infrastructure our corporate reputation.
development and to assess the likely moved.
In some regions, communities may impact on them.
oppose mining activities We carry out social and human rights baseline studies and risk assessments, and engage with communities in a transparent and culturally appropriate manner, respecting local laws, customs and heritage.
Health, safety and environment Our operations are subject to extensive New or amended HSE regulations and Our commitment to sustainable health, safety and environmental HSE legislation may lead to increased operating development, incorporating environmental, regulations and legislation and community costs or, in the event of non-compliance, economic and social performance, is expectations.
We must comply with current, potential fines, penalties or other actions that embedded in our operating philosophy.
Our new and upcoming laws and our Sustainable may adversely affect our financial position.
businesses operate in accordance with our Development Framework.
Rehabilitation costs, which are usually Sustainable Development Framework and estimated and provided for over the life aspire to achieve the highest international of operations and based on the best standards regardless of location.
They are information available, may subsequently regularly audited through our Sustainable increase affecting earnings.
Development Assurance Programme, and HSE and social performance indicators are Any breach of our own best practice reported to our Executive Committee and standards could damage our reputation and, Board.
We have effective management as a result, our licence to operate.
HSE processes in place that support our standards at acquired operations may also businesses and sites in complying with not meet our standards.
regulations and legislations in each country in which we operate.
Cost control We are unable to directly set the prices Cost control can help in the creation of value We conduct regular internal audits at of our commodities and, as such, our and is also a measure of the quality of our operations to identify potential efficiencies, competitiveness and long-term profitability operational management and our stewardship and incentivise our managers to reduce are largely dependent on our ability to of assets.
Cost performance is an important their operating costs on a year-on-year basis.
reduce costs and maintain low-cost management measure, and is regularly In each of the past eleven years, we have operations.
reported to our Executive Committee.
achieved real cost savings within our operations.
The cost of extracting and processing raw materials is affected by the costs Our world-leading Xstrata Technology of consumables, such as reductants and Services develops technologies to improve reagents, energy, labour, transport and efficiencies and reduce operating costs for equipment.
Many of these elements are mineral processing and metals extraction.
susceptible to supply and demand forces, Our commodity businesses also invest in which create inationary pressures.
the development of lower cost proprietary technologies.
