PRINCIPAL RISKS Summary of principal risks The Groups principal risks are identified below, together with a description of how the Group mitigates those risks.
Link to Financial Performance Total Performance Customer Focus Programme Execution Responsible Behaviour Other High impact Defence spending p46 Large contracts p48 Laws and Competition p49 regulations p49 Government Fixed-price contracts p48 Pension funding p50 customers p47 Export controls and other Global market p47 restrictions p50 Acquisitions p50 Medium impact Contract award Component availability, Consortia and joint timing p47 subcontractor ventures p51 performance and key Exchange rates p51 suppliers p48 Cybersecurity p51 Defence spending The Group is dependent on Impact Overhanging the US defence sector defencespending.
A decrease in defence spending by the into 2013 is the potential impact of a Groups major customers could have a sequestration or other budget reductions Description material adverse effect on the Groups that could result in indiscriminate funding The Groups core businesses are primarily future results and financial condition.
The Group bases its plans on defence-related, selling products and conservative assumptions and continues to Mitigation services directly and indirectly, mainly address its cost base accordingly.
The Groups business is geographically to the US, UK, Saudi Arabian and other spread across five home markets and its Defence budgets in the UK are expected national governments.
Defence spending products are marketed across a range of to remain flat, but the recent stabilising of depends on a complex mix of political defence markets.
The Group has ahighly equipment and services requirements and considerations, budgetary constraints, sustainable services business, whichis an the budget outlook has established a more and the ability of the armed forces to area for growth as customers operations predictable planning environment.
meet specific threats and perform certain and maintenance budgets come under missions, and, as such, may be subject In Saudi Arabia, regional tensions continue pressure.
Significant cost reductions to significant fluctuations from year to todictate that defence remains a high continue to be made to address increased year.
With constraints on government priority.
budgetary pressures in the US and UK.
expenditure in a number of the Groups TheGroup continues to use conservative See page 22 for more information on the markets and countries in the Eurozone assumptions to underpin its financial Groups five home markets area experiencing serious financial andoperational planning.
difficulties, affordability continues to be a key focus for customers.
46 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Group performance review Government customers The Groups largest customers As a result of these audits and reviews, In the event of a customer termination for aregovernments.
costs and prices under these contracts may convenience, the Group would typically be subject to adjustment.
be paid for work done and commitments Description made atthe time of termination.
Having Impact Companies engaged in the supply of sovereign governments as major customers The termination of one or more of the defence and security-related equipment offers the benefits of dealing with mature contracts for the Groups programmes by and services to government agencies procurement organisations with which the governments, the failure of the relevant are subject to certain business risks Group can have long-standing business agencies to obtain expected funding particular to the defence and security relationships, and well-established and appropriations for the Groups programmes, industries.
These governments could understood terms oftrade.
or a deterioration in the Groups relationship modify contracts or terminate them at with any of its key government customers See page 16 for more information on the short notice and at their convenience.
and corresponding reduction in contract Groups strategy For example, long-term US government awards, could have a material adverse contracts are normally funded annually effect on the Groups future results and and are subject to cancellation or delay financial condition.
if funding appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made.
Mitigation Terms and risk sharing agreements can The Group regularly reviews performance in also be amended.
In addition, the Group, its markets and the Executive Committee as a government contractor, is subject continues to work closely with the to financial audits and other reviews by government customers in these markets some ofits governmental customers with toensure the Groups strategy is aligned respect tothe performance of, and the with theirs.
accounting and general practices relating to, government contracts.
Global market Impact The Group operates in a global market.
downturns, political instability and civil The occurrence of any such events disturbances could disrupt the Groups business activities: government regulations could have a material adverse effect on Description and administrative policies couldchange the Groups future results and financial BAE Systems is a global company which quickly and restraints on themovement of condition.
conducts business in a number of regions, capital could be imposed: governments including the Middle East, and, as a result, Mitigation could expropriate the Groups assets: assumes certain risks associated with The Group has a balanced portfolio of and burdensome taxes or tariffs could be businesses with a broad geographical businesses across its markets.
In some countries, these risks include, and are not limited to, the See page 22 for more information on the following: political changes could lead to Groups five home markets changes in the business environment in which the Group operates: economic Contract award timing The Group is dependent on the timing of Impact Mitigation award of defence contracts.
Amounts receivable under the Groups The Board regularly reviews the Groups defence contracts can be substantial and, performance with regard to contract awards, Description therefore, the timing of awards, or failure to and the Executive Committee actively The Groups profits and cash flows are receive anticipated awards, could materially manages the assets and resources of the dependent, to a significant extent, on affect the Groups profits and cash flows for Group in line with the timing of awards.
thetiming of award of defence contracts.
See page 55 for more information on the In 2012, the Groups financial performance Groups major programmes was impacted by a delay in the award of a contract amendment from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia relating to price escalation on the Salam Typhoon programme.
Negotiations on the contract continue in 2013.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 47 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Large contracts Certain of the Groups businesses Impact risk on production programmes, such aredependent on a small number of The loss, expiration, suspension, as incentive arrangements, whereby the largecontracts.
cancellation or termination of any one customer and contractor share cost savings of these large contracts, for any reason, and overruns against target prices.
Description could have a material adverse effect on The Group has a well-balanced spread A significant proportion of the Groups the Groups future results and financial of programmes and significant order revenue comes from a small number of condition.
backlog, which provides long-term visibility.
Each of these contracts, Mitigation The Board regularly reviews the Groups which are primarily in the Platforms & To mitigate risk on UK Ministry of Defence performance on these large contracts and Services UK and Platforms & Services contracts, development programmes are the Executive Committee continues to work International reporting segments, is normally contracted with appropriate levels closely with these customers to ensure the typically worth or potentially worth over of risk being initially held by the customer.
Groups strategy is aligned with theirs.
Subsequent production programmes are See page 55 for more information on the priced when a platforms development has Groups order backlog by major programme reached sufficient maturity.
A variety of and reporting segment contract structures are used to mitigate Fixed-price contracts The Group has xed-price contracts.
Impact Robust bid preparation and approvals The Groups failure to anticipate technical processes are well established throughout Description problems, estimate costs accurately or the Group, with decisions required to A significant portion of the Groups revenue control costs during performance of a fixedbe taken at the appropriate level in line is derived from fixed-price contracts.
An price contract may reduce the profitability of with clear delegations of authority.
The inherent risk in these fixed-price contracts such a contract or result in a loss.
consistent application of metrics is used is that actual performance costs may to support the review of individual contract Mitigation exceed the projected costs on which the performance.
The Group has reduced its exposure to fixed prices for such contracts are agreed.
fixed-price design and development activity See page 84 for more information on LCM These contracts can extend over many which mandates projectmanagement which is in general more risk intensive than years and it can be difficult to predict the processes fixed-price production activity.
To manage ultimate outturn costsassociated with the contract-related risks and uncertainties, terms on which theyare based.
contracts are managed under the Groups mandated Lifecycle Management LCM process at the operational level.
Component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers The Group is dependent upon component to the Group.
In addition, some products Mitigation availability, subcontractor performance require relatively scarce raw materials.
The Groups procurement function, which and key suppliers.
The Group is generally subject to specific is led by a member of the Executive procurement requirements which Committee, is responsible for establishing Description may, in effect, limit the suppliers and and managing end-to-end integrated The Group is dependent upon the subcontractors it may utilise.
The Executive delivery of materials by suppliers, and the instances, the Group is dependent on one Committee continues tomonitor this assembly of components and subsystems or a limited number of suppliers.
If any of risk and the Group has experienced no by subcontractors used in its products in these suppliers or subcontractors fails to material negative impact to date.
The Group a timely and satisfactory manner, and in meet the Groups needs, the Group may reviews the financial health of strategically full compliance with applicable terms and not, in the short term, have readily available important suppliers globally onan ongoing conditions.
alternatives, thereby impacting its ability basis.
to complete its customer obligations Impact See page 21 for more information on satisfactorily and in a timely manner, which suppliers Some of the Groups suppliers or could have a negative impact on the Groups subcontractors may be impacted by the future results and financial condition.
economic environment and constraints on available financing, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations 48 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Group performance review Laws and regulations The Group is subject to risk from a failure Impact Auniform global policy and process for to comply with laws andregulations.
Failure by the Group or its sales the appointment of advisers engaged in representatives, marketing advisers or business development is in effect.
Description others acting on itsbehalf to comply with Pursuant to its commitments concerning The Group has contracts and operations these laws and regulations could result in ongoing regulatory compliance made in the in many parts of the world, operates in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities course of the 2010 settlement with the US a highly regulated environment, and is resulting in significant fines and penalties, Department of Justice and the consequent subject to applicable laws and regulations and or result in the suspension or 2011 settlement with the US Department of of many jurisdictions.
These include, debarment of theGroup from government State, the Group appointed, respectively, an without limitation, regulations relating to contracts for some period of time or independent monitor in 2010 and a Special import-export controls, money laundering, suspension of the Groups export privileges.
Compliance Official in 2011, in each case false accounting, anti-bribery and antiMitigation for a period of three years, to monitor the boycott provisions.
Non-compliance could During the year, the Group has continued Groups compliance with its respective expose theGroup to fines, penalties, toadd resources dedicated to legal and commitments under those settlements and suspension ordebarment, which could regulatory compliance in order to enhance its compliance obligations going forward.
have a material adverse effect on the further its capability to identify and manage Group.
From time to time, the Group is See page 40 for more information on the the risk of compliance failure.
Internal and Groups approach tobusiness conduct subject to government investigations external market risk assessments form an relating to its operations.
important element of the ongoing corporate development and training processes.
Competition The Groups business is subject its competitors at a lower cost to its Impact tosignicant competition.
customers: and the readiness of its The Groups business and future results facilities, equipment and personnel to may be adversely impacted if it is unable to Description undertake the programmes for which it compete adequately in the markets in which The Groups businesses are subject to competes.
competition from national and multiIn some instances, governments direct to Mitigation national firms with substantial resources asingle supplier all work for a particular The Groups global, multi-market presence, and capital, and many contracts are programme, commonly known as solebalanced portfolio of businesses, leading obtained through a competitive bidding source programmes.
Although governments capabilities and performance continue to process, including contracts where the have historically awarded certain address this risk.
In particular, the Group Group is the current incumbent.
programmes to the Group on a sole-source invests in research and development, and The Groups ability to compete for basis, they may in the future determine to innovation, and continues to reduce its cost contracts depends in particular on: the open such programmes to a competitive base and improve efficiencies.
strength of its intellectual property rights bidding process.
Government contracts See page 22 for more information on the and technical knowhow: the effectiveness for defence and security-related products Groups five home markets and innovation of its research and and services can, in certain countries, development programmes: its ability to be awarded on the basis of home country offer better programme performance than preference.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 49 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Pension funding The Group has an aggregate funding Mitigation With effect from January 2013, all deficit in its dened benefit pension Following triennial funding valuations of the employees in the US are offered schemes.
Groups two largest UK pension schemes membership of a defined contribution in 2011, revised deficit recovery plans were scheme 401 k and no longer accrue Description agreed during the year.
The performance of salary-related benefits in defined benefit The Group operates certain defined the Groups pension schemes and deficit schemes: and benefit pension schemes.
At present, in recovery plans are regularly reviewed by In February 2013, with the agreement aggregate, there is an actuarial deficit both the Group and the trustees of the of the Company, the trustees of the between the value of the projected schemes, taking actuarial and investment BAESystems 2000 Pension Plan entered liabilities of these schemes and the assets advice as appropriate.
The results of these into an arrangement with Legal & General they hold.
reviews are discussed with the Board and to insure against longevity risk for the appropriate action taken.
Impact current pensioner population, covering The amount of the deficits may be In future, the growth of the defined benefit 2.7bn of pension scheme liabilities.
adversely affected by changes in a liabilities is expected to be curtailed as This will reduce the funding volatility number of factors, including investment follows: relating to increasing life expectancy.
returns, long-term interest rate and price With effect from April 2012, new See page 34 for more information on the inflation expectations, and anticipated employees in the UK are offered Groups pension accounting and funding members longevity.
Further increases membership of a defined contribution valuations, and deficit recovery plans in pension scheme deficits may require scheme rather than the previous defined the Group to increase the amount of cash benefit defined contribution hybrid contributions payable to these schemes, scheme.
Existing members of the thereby reducing cash available to meet Groups legacy UK plans are unaffected theGroups other operating, investing and by this change: financing requirements.
Export controls and other restrictions The Group is subject to export controls political factors or changing international Mitigation and other restrictions.
circumstances will not result in the Group The Group has formal systems and being unable to obtain necessary export policies inplace which are mandated under Description licences.
the Operational Framework to ensure A portion of the Groups sales is derived adherence to regulatory requirements and Impact fromthe export of its products.
The export identify any restrictions that could adversely Reduced access to export markets ofdefence and security products outside impact the Groups activities.
could havea material adverse effect on thejurisdictions in which they are produced the Groupsfuture results and financial See page 23 for more information on is subject to licensing and export controls, condition.
Failureto comply with export exports and other restrictions.
No assurance can controls and wider regulations could expose be given that the export controls to which the Group to fines, penalties, suspension the Group issubject will not become more or debarment, which could have a material restrictive, that new generations of the adverse effect onthe Group.
Groups products willnot also be subject to similar or more stringent controls, or that Acquisitions The anticipated benets of acquisitions Impact Mitigation may not be achieved.
The diversion of management attention to The Group has established policies in integration efforts and the performance placetomanage the acquisition process, Description of the acquired businesses below monitor the integration and performance of The Group considers investment in valueexpectations could adversely affect the acquired businesses, and identify potential enhancing acquisitions where market Groups business, and create the risk of impairments.
conditions are right and where they deliver impairments arising on goodwill and other See page 10 for more information on the on its strategy.
Whether the Group realises intangible assets.
Groups recent M&A activity the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends upon the successful integration of the acquired businesses, as well as their post-acquisition performance in the markets in which they operate.
50 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Group performance review Consortia and joint ventures The Group is involved in consortia, joint Impact Mitigation ventures and equity holdings where it In the event of failure or disagreement The Group seeks to participate only does not have control.
within aconsortium, joint venture or equity in ventures in which its interests are holding and the business arrangement complementary to those of its partners, Description failing to meet its strategic objectives or and has formal systems and procedures in The Group participates in various expected benefits, the Groups business place to monitor the performance of such consortia, joint ventures and equity and future results may be adversely business arrangements.
holdings, exercising varying degrees of affected.
See page 145 for more information on the control.
The risk of failure or the risk of Groups principal joint ventures disagreement, particularly in those that require the unanimous consent of all members with regard to major decisions, is inherent in any jointly controlled entity.
Exchange rates The Group is exposed to volatility Impact movements on the income statement or incurrency exchange rates.
Significant fluctuations in exchange rates balance sheet of foreignsubsidiaries and towhich the Group is exposed could have equity accounted investments it regards as Description a material adverse effect on the Groups long-term investments.
The global nature of the Groups business future results and financial condition.
See page 36 for more information on the means it is exposed to volatility in currency Mitigation Groups treasurypolicies exchange rates in respect of foreign In order to protect itself against currency currency denominated transactions, and fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge the translation of net assets and income all material firm transactional exposures, statements of foreign subsidiaries and unless otherwise approved as exceptions equity accounted investments.
The by the Treasury Review Management Group is exposed to a number of foreign Committee.
The Group does not hedge the currencies, the most significant being the translation effect of exchange rate US dollar, Euro and Saudi Riyal.
Cybersecurity The Group could be negatively impacted Impact Mitigation by information technology security Failure to combat these risks effectively The Group has a broad range of measures threats.
could negatively impact the Groups in place, including appropriate tools and reputation among its customers and the techniques, to monitor and mitigate this Description public, cause disruption to its business risk.
As a defence, aerospace and security operations, and could result in a negative See page 24 for an overview of the Cyber & company, the security threats faced by the impact on the Groups future results and Intelligence reporting segment Group include threats to its information financial condition.
technology infrastructure, unlawful attempts to gain access to its proprietary or classified information and the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the business or financial condition of the Group.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 51 Supplying and supporting Hawk trainer aircraft for the Royal Saudi Air Force Following agreement between the governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK, under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme, BAESystems has a contract to support the future aircrew training requirements of the Royal Saudi Air Force.
The contract, aimed at meeting the growing demands of a world-class air force, covers the provision of equipment and training devices, such as aircraft simulators, training aids and aircraft on which to train aircrew.
Included within this requirement is the supply of 55 Pilatus PC-21 aircraft to fulfil the basic training role and 22 BAESystems Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer aircraft, which will be used to fulfil the fast jet training part of the syllabus.
52 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Reporting segments performance review REPORTING SEGMENTS PERFORMANCE REVIEW In this section: Reporting segments overview 54 Electronic Systems 56 Cyber & Intelligence 60 Platforms & Services US 64 Platforms & Services UK 68 Platforms & Services International 72 This section provides summaries of the operational, financial and non-financial performance of the Groups five principal reporting segments.
