RISK MANAGEMENT Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder value, protection of its reputation and meeting the requirements of good corporate governance.
Process How BAE Systems manages risk Businesses The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation and Board mitigation rests with the line management of the businesses.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature They are also responsible for reporting and monitoring key risks and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving in accordance with established processes under the Groups its strategic objectives, and ensuring that risks are managed Operational Framework.
The Groups risk management process is set out in the Risk Risk is a regular agenda item at Board meetings and the Board Management Policy, a mandated policy under the Operational reviews risk as part of its regular strategy review process.
This is Framework, and, in respect of projects, in the Lifecycle aimed at providing the Board with an appreciation of the key risks Management Framework, a core business process under the within the business and oversight of how they are being managed.
Further guidance is provided by a Risk The Board delegates certain risk management activities to the Management Maturity self-assessment tool.
Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees as follows.
Identified risks are documented in controlled risk registers Audit Committee showing: the risks that have been identified: characteristics of the The Audit Committee monitors the Groups key risks identified risk: the basis for determining mitigation strategy: and what reviews by the risk assessment processes and reports its findings to the and monitoring are necessary.
Each risk is allocated an owner who Board on a regular basis.
It is also responsible for reviewing in has authority and responsibility for assessing and managing it.
detail the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control Project risks are reported and monitored in Group-mandated format policies, and procedures for the identification, assessment and Contract Review Packs, which are reviewed by management at reporting of risk.
The financial performance of projects is Corporate Responsibility Committee reported and monitored using Contract Status Reports, which form The Corporate Responsibility Committee monitors the Groups part of the Contract Review Pack.
These include programme margin performance in managing the Groups significant non-financial variation metrics, which are reviewed regularly by the Executive risks, including those arising in respect of business conduct, health Committee and Board see KPI on page 15.
Project margin is and safety, and the environment, and reports its findings to the recognised after making suitable allowances for technical and other Board on a regular basis.
risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
Approach In addition, every six months, the businesses complete an The Groups approach to risk management is aimed at the early Operational Assurance Statement OAS, which is a mandated identification of key risks, to remove or reduce the likelihood and policy under the Operational Framework.
The OAS is in two parts: effect of those risks before they occur, and deal effectively with a self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework: them if they crystallise.
and a report showing the key financial and non-financial risks for the relevant business.
Together with independent reviews undertaken The Group is committed to the protection of its assets, which by Internal Audit and the work of the external auditors, the OAS include human, property and financial resources, through forms the Groups process for reviewing the effectiveness of the an effective risk management process, underpinned where system of internal controls.
Executive Committee Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues are The key financial and non-financial risks identified by the escalated through the management team and ultimately to the businesses from the risk assessment processes are collated and Board where appropriate.
The underlying principles of the Groups reviewed by the Executive Committee to identify those issues where risk management policy are that risks are monitored continuously, the cumulative risk, or possible reputational impacts, could be associated action plans reviewed, appropriate contingencies significant.
provisioned and this information reported through established management control procedures.
Management responsibility for the management of the Groups most significant non-financial risks is allocated at the Executive As with any system of internal control, the policies and processes Committees risk workshops.
The OAS and Non-financial Risk that are mandated in the Operational Framework are designed to registers are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business monitor the status and progression of mitigation plans, and these objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, key risks are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Principal risks Financial and non-financial risks Risks are identified as principal based on the likelihood of Financial risks expose the Group to potential costs which are occurrence and potential impact on the Group.
quantifiable on the basis that their probability and impact can be adequately understood and related to the financial statements.
The principal risks identified by the Group using the policies and processes explained above during the year are shown on pages 46 Non-financial risks cannot readily be assessed in financial to51.
terms and, therefore, cannot be reflected reliably in the financial statements.
See page 78 for more information on the See page 83 for more information on the Groups activities of the Board and its committees business processes and mandated policies 44 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Group performance review M S I I T S I Y G L A A T N I O A N BOARD Overall responsibility for risk management Monitoring AUDIT COMMITTEE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting Monitoring and reporting EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Operational Assurance Statement Risk Register Non-financial Risk Register Monitoring and reporting BUSINESSES Integrated Business Plan Core Business Process Annual long-term strategy and five-year plan for each business Operational Assurance Statement Mandated Policy Six-monthly management self-assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework and summary of key risks Chief Executives Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly top-level review of the key operational, financial and non-financial performance issues within the business, and significant forthcoming bids and events Quarterly Business Review Core Business Process Quarterly management review of the performance of each of the Groups businesses against their objectives, measures and milestones Lifecycle Management Contract Review Core Business Process Monthly management review of project performance and issues to ensure that appropriate decisions and actions are taken Monitoring and reporting BUSINESS RISK Risk Management Policy Mandated Policy 1.
ANALYSIS Financial and non-financial risks recorded Risks analysed for impact and in controlled risk registers probability to determine gross exposure 4.
EVALUATION Risk owners identified and action Risk exposure reviewed and risks plans implemented prioritised Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review As defined in the Groups See page 84 for more information on Operational Framework the Groups Operational Framework BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 45 N O E I V T A A L C U I F A I T T I N O E N D I
