Policy and review Our Business | Managing Risk Managing Risk Risk management Effective risk management underpins the delivery of our objectives.
It is essential to protecting our 1. reputation and generating sustainable shareholder Board value.
We aim to identify key risks at an early stage and develop actions to eliminate them 2.
Group ormitigate their impact and likelihood to an management acceptable level.
Divisional Risk management processes are embedded management throughout the Group at all levels and form an integral part of day-to-day business activity.
Operating company management help management to identify and understand the risks they face in delivering business objectives and the status of the key controls in place for Risks managing those risks.
Roles and responsibilities The Board is responsible for our system of risk management and internal control.
It sets the Groups appetite for risk in pursuit of its strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by Group, divisional and operating company management without specic Board approval.
Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed and escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, and divisional and operating company management are set out below.
Responsibilities Actions undertaken t Responsible for the Groups systems of risk t Issue and review Group risk management policy 1.
Board management and internal control t Annually review effectiveness of Group risk t Determine Group appetite for risk in achieving management and internal control systems its strategic objectives t Review the Groups key risks and risk responses t Review the effectiveness of Group internal t Receive regular reports on internal and external audit Audit Committee controls, including systems to identify, assess, and other assurance activities manage and monitor risks t Annually assess Group risk management and internal control systems Business Practices t Review Group management of risks t Receive regular reports on implementation of Group associated withhealth and safety, health and safety, sustainability and ethics and Committee sustainability, employee engagement, compliance programmes, and Group HR policies corporate values, ethics and Code ofConduct t Review effectiveness of the Groups helpline procedures and other mechanisms for raising concerns t Strategic leadership t Strategic roadmap and annual budget process 2.
Group management t Responsible for ensuring that the Groups t Review of risk management and assurance activities riskmanagement policy is implemented and processes andembedded t Group Tender and Investments Committee t Ensure appropriate actions are taken to t Monthly quarterly finance and performance reviews manage strategic risks and key risks arising from bidding and project execution t Responsible for risk management and internal t Review key risks and mitigation plans monthly 3.
Divisional management control systems within their division t Review and challenge of operating company t Ensure that operating companies assuranceplans responsibilities aredischarged t Review results of assurance activities t Escalate key risks to Group management and Board t Maintain an effective system of risk t Maintain and regularly review project, functional 4.
Operating company management and internal control within andstrategic risk registers management theiroperating company t Review mitigation plans t Plan, execute and report on assurance activities 58 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Information and risk reporting Our Business Our Business | Managing Risk Risk management process actions designed to mitigate and eliminate sectors, we must ensure that we do not Our risk management policy requires that risks are operating effectively.
A range inadvertently import additional risk.
The all divisions and those operating companies ofprocedures is used to monitor the Board believes that our established risk within them identify and assess the risks effectiveness of internal controls, management and internal control systems to which they are exposed and which including management assurance, risk will help us to identify such risks and could impact their ability to deliver their management processes and independent respond in a timely manner.
assurance provided by internal audit and Operating in many different business other specialist third party reviews.
Identied risk events, their causes and environments and territories inevitably possible consequences are recorded in The Board has concluded that the Group entails risks and uncertainties that are not risk registers.
Their likelihood and potential maintained sound risk management and necessarily within our control.
Although business impact and the control systems internal control systems throughout the we cannot eliminate such risks and that are in place to manage them are year and has reviewed their effectiveness.
uncertainties completely, we have analysed and, if required, additional established risk management and internal Principal risks actions are developed and put in place to control systems and procedures to During 2012, most of our businesses mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures.
performed well and in line with Individuals are allocated responsibility expectations.
However, our construction We also face significant risks and forevaluating and managing these risks businesses in the UK and US experienced uncertainties that are common to many toan agreed timescale.
difficult trading conditions which are likely companies including financial and Risk registers and relevant action plans to continue into 2013.
In the UK, reduced treasury risks, IT and information security are reviewed regularly, at various levels private spending, depressed private sector risks, and the management of pension throughout the business, to identify investment in commercial building and liabilities, which are significant.
We have emerging risks, remove expired risks delays in government backed projects established controls and systems to andupdate mitigation plans.
shifted our construction business mix manage such risks.
towards less complex and lower margin Reporting structures ensure that risks The principal risks that could adversely projects.
In the US, the construction aremonitored continually, mitigation plans impact our profitability and ability to market is now expected to recover later arereviewed and significant exposures achieve our strategic objectives are set than previously expected.
are escalated from project level to out below and on pages 60 to 61.
While operating company management to These trends will continue into 2013, and the risks themselves have not changed seniormanagement.
the steps we have taken in response will since last year, the Boards assessment increase the importance of effective risk oftheir likelihood and potential impact All divisions and operating companies management.
As we reshape the haschanged and steps have been must have assurance mechanisms to takento strengthen, as appropriate, organisation to deliver our combined ensure that the internal controls and themitigations in place.
capabilities across our target growth Key: Increased risk No change to risk Economic environment Risk Impact Mitigation The continued effect of the global economic Any significant changes in the level or timing The Groups strategy to focus on the more downturn may cause our clients to postpone ofclient spending or investment plans could resilient and stable infrastructure markets or reduce existing or future projects.
adversely impact our future order book.
bethey geographies or market sectors Suchchanges could arise from changes in willfurther mitigate this risk.
The effect government policy or clients failure to secure ofspending changes in any one market Change in 2012 nancing for future projects.
ismitigated by ourbroad exposure to infrastructure markets across the globe and the continued need forinfrastructure spending.
The challenging economic environment in Failure of a client, including any government or The financial solvency and strength of some of our main geographies has continued public sector body, could result in non-collection counterparties is always considered before to depress spending by governments and of amounts owed.
contracts are signed and is a specic focus in other clients and has increased competitive the current economic climate.
During the life intensity which in turn has put pressure of a contract such assessments are updated onmargins.
We seek toensure that we are not over reliant on any one counterparty.
Failure of a subcontractor or supplier would We aim to develop long term relationships result in the Group having to nd a replacement with key subcontractors, working closely or undertaking the task itself.
This could result withthem to understand their operations.
Wedevelop contingency plans to address subcontractor failure, and also obtain project retentions, bonds and or letters of credit fromsubcontractors, where appropriate, tomitigate the impact of any insolvency.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Our Business | Managing Risk Expansion into new territories and by acquisition Risk Impact Mitigation In pursuit of our strategic objectives, we will Failure to identify, understand and evaluate As part of the decision making process before seek to enter new territories and continue to the risks of conducting business in a new entering a new territory, we undertake a detailed make acquisitions.
This has the potential to territory could lead to significant financial country risk assessment.
This will consider expose the Group to risks that it may not have loss and reputational damage.
andassess the prevailing economic, political, encountered before.
regulatory, ethical, health, safety and sustainability conditions to ensure that we can operate there inline with our own values and standards.
Change in 2012 Failure to realise the expected benets We undertake detailed due diligence on all fromacquisitions and to integrate acquired potential acquisitions to ensure that all aspects No change.
businesses successfully into the Groups oftheir business align with ours.
In many cases processes could result in an adverse impact we have worked with these businesses before.
onour strategic objectives, futureprospects, In addition, we prepare valuation models on all financial conditions andprotability.
potential acquisitions, drawing on both internal and external resources.
Due diligence includes anassessment of our ability to integrate the acquired businesses successfully into the Group.
When a business is acquired, we develop detailed integration plans and monitor them to ensure the business is successfully assimilated into the Group and its internal control framework.
Legal and regulatory Risk Impact Mitigation We operate in diverse territories and our A breach of local laws and regulations could We monitor and respond to legal and regulatory businesses are subject to a variety of lead to legal proceedings, investigations or developments in the territories where we complex, demanding and evolving legal, disputes resulting in business disruption operate.
We consider the local legal and taxand regulatory requirements.
ranging from additional project costs to regulatory framework as part of any Group potential debarment and reputational damage.
decision to conduct business in a new country.
Business conduct Risk Impact Mitigation We operate in various international markets Failure by the Group and its employees to Throughout the Group we take a rigorous with partners and supply chains that may observe the highest standards of integrity approach to assessing and addressing corruption present business conduct related risks involving, andconduct in dealing with clients, suppliers risks.
We have a variety of programmes to for example, fraud, bribery or corruption.
and other stakeholders could result in civil promote compliance with our Code of Conduct and or criminal penalties, debarment and and in areas such as competition and data reputational damage.
Each operating company has a Change in 2012 compliance officer responsible for the application and monitoring of these programmes.
People Risk Impact Mitigation Our inability to recruitand retain the best Failure to recruit and retain appropriately We measure all potential recruits for key roles management andemployees who have the skilled people could harm our ability inthe organisation against a competency and appropriate competencies and also share todeliver specic contracts and our leadership framework.
Divisions and their ourvalues andbehaviours may hamper our futuregrowth.
operating companies undertake organisation growth prospects.
andpeople reviews to review the roles, competencies, performance and potential ofpersonnel.
We have a well developed Change in 2012 succession planning process to identify and develop high potential personnel to ll key roles.
These plans are reviewed regularly and discussed No change.
at all levels within the organisation and by the Board.
We have appropriate remuneration and incentive packages to help usattract and retain key employees.
60 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Managing Risk Key: Increased risk No change to risk Bidding Risk Impact Mitigation Through our operating companies we seek to Failure to estimate accurately the risks, costs, All bids are subject to rigorous estimating win work through a large number of bids each impact of ination and contractual terms and andtendering processes within a year.
In some cases we bid in joint venture how best to manage them could diminish the denedframework.
with carefully selected partners, especially profitability of contracts.
We have dened delegated authority levels where we want to augment our expertise for approving all tenders and infrastructure orknowledge of the territory.
All major and significant contracts We also invest in PPP and infrastructure above those authority levels are subject to investments, where success depends on Groupreview and approval by the Group Tender anumber of assumptions, made, at the time and Investment Committee GTIC.
ofinvestment, on future revenues and costs.
In the event of a disagreement with, or failure Before entering into a joint venture agreement of, or poor delivery performance of a joint we have procedures for reviewing the relevant Change in 2012 venture partner, we could face financial and skills, experience, resources and values of reputational risks.
jointventure partners to understand how they complement ours.
We monitor the performance No change.
ofjoint ventures and joint venture partners throughout the life of the project.
If any of the assumptions behind investment Investment appraisals are performed and decisions prove incorrect, the profitability of reviewed by experienced professionals.
We those investments could be reduced.
analyse the risks associated with revenues andcosts and, where appropriate, establish contractual and other risk mitigations.
Project execution Risk Impact Mitigation We work on complex design, engineering, Failure to manage or deliver against contracted Each operating company has dened operating construction, facilities management and customer requirements on time and to an procedures to address the risks inherent in assetmanagement projects.
If we fail appropriate quality could result in issues such project delivery.
In addition, the Group risk todeliver these on time and to clients as contract disputes, rejected claims, design management framework aids identication requirements, we face the risk of financial issues, cost overruns or failure to achieve ofspecic risks on projects and the mitigating loss, claimsand reputational damage.
customer savings which harm our actions required.
Projects are subject to profitability and reputation.
management review at all levels to monitor Successful delivery of many of these projects progress and to review steps put in place depends on the combined availability and toaddress specic risks identied on effective management of subcontractors thoseprojects.
Change in 2012 A subcontractors failure to perform to We aim to develop long term relationships anappropriate standard and quality could witha number of key subcontractors without causeproject delays, reduce our ability to becoming overreliant on any one.
meet contractual commitments and harm As part of our selection criteria we seek to Increased incidence of subcontractor failure ourreputation.
partner with subcontractors and suppliers who ordefault could affect the successful share ourvalues.
Health, safety and sustainability Risk Impact Mitigation We work on significant, complex and Failure to manage these risks could expose We have detailed health and safety policies potentially hazardous projects which require ourpeople or the public to injury harm and the andprocedures to minimise such risks.
These continuous monitoring and management of Group to significant potential liabilities and are reviewed and monitored by operating health and safety risks.
Through our activities reputational damage.
companies, divisional management and we can impact either positively or adversely external verication bodies.
Each operating the world in which we operate and the company has experienced health and safety communities with which we come into contact.
professionals who provide advice and support and undertake regular reviews.
Change in 2012 A Safety Executive committee meets regularly throughout the year to develop a consistent approach to health and safety best practice.
Failure to address these risks and to execute Our sustainability strategy covers our projects sustainably could result in significant operations until 2020 in terms of profitable potential liabilities, reputational damage and markets, healthy communities and inability to win future work.
Sustainability issues suchas climate change adaption are considered in risk management activities at operating company as well as project level.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
