PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT Through risk management and internal control systems the Group is able to identify, assess and prioritise risk within the business and seeks to minimise, control and monitor their impact on pro tability whilst maximising the opportunities they present.
The Board has overall responsibility for Group risk management.
It reviews principal RISK ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE risks and uncertainties regularly, together with the actions taken to mitigate them.
TheBoard has delegated responsibility for BOARD assurance for the risk management process and the review of mitigating controls to the Overall responsibility for risk framework Audit Committee.
and internal control Executive Directors together with Senior Ongoing review of their effectiveness Management from every division and Reports to Board corporate function of the business complete on its work aGroup risk register.
Risks are considered and conclusions interms of their impact and likelihood from both a financial and reputational perspective.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Risks are assessed both gross and net of mitigating controls.
Review meetings are Monitors and reviews risk and internal heldto ensure consistency of response and control framework adequacy of grading.
Detailed risk registers are reviewed twice yearly and upon any material change in the business with a full Reports to Audit risk review undertaken annually, at which Committee on its point it is also reviewed in detail by the Audit findings and SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Committee with new or emerging risks recommendations Compiles Group risk register considered by the Committee as appropriate.
This allows the Audit Committee to monitor Considers and challenges mitigating controls the most important controls and prioritise risk management and internal audit Calibrates and scores responses .
RISK HEAT MAP LIKELIHOOD Low High 1 Corporate risks 2 Financing risks 3 Economic risks 4 Concentration of investments 5 Development risks 12 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On the following pages are the principal risks and uncertainties from across the business and are re ective of where the Board has invested time during the year.
The Group monitors a number of additional risks and adjusts those considered principal as the risk pro le of the business changes.
1 Corporate risks Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Impact: The Groups ability to maintain its reputation, revenue and value could be damaged by corporate risks Responding to regulatory and Reduced exibility and increased Sound governance and internal policies with .
appropriately skilled resource and support from external advisers as appropriate.
Responding to reputational, communication Reputational damage and Appointment of experienced individuals with clear and governance challenges.
Clear statements of corporate and social responsibility, skilled Executive and Non-executive Directors, with support from external advisors as appropriate.
Continuous stakeholder communication and consultation.
Inability to implement strategy or correctly Constraints on growth and Regular strategic reviews and monitoring of allocate capital.
Corporate level oversight of capital allocation.
Detailed capital planning and financial modelling.
Maintain adequate cash and available facilities together with conservative leverage.
Adequacy of partner evaluation and Reduced pro tability, delay Appropriate due diligence and consultation.
Group structure brings heightened tax Competitive disadvantage.
Non-REIT status has a potential Lower returns.
Open and transparent engagement with HM Revenue competitive disadvantage when bidding & Customs.
Risk associated with attracting and Inability to execute business plan.
Succession planning, performance evaluations, retainingstaff.
training & development, long-term incentive rewards.
Sound systems and processes to eff ectively capture and manage information.
Failure to comply with health and safety Loss or injury to employees, tenants Comprehensive health and safety procedures in place orother statutory regulations or notices.
orcontractors and resultant across the Group and monitored regularly.
consultants undertake annual audits in all locations.
Safe working practices well established, including staff communication and training.
Further information on Corporate risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 36 to 41 and the Corporate Governance report on pages 50 to 58.
COM 13 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 2 Financing risks Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Impact: Reduced or limited availability of debt or equity finance may threaten the Groups ability to meet its financial commitments or objectives and potentially to operate as a going concern.
Decline in market conditions or a general rise Reduced financial and operational Maintain appropriate liquidity to cover commitments.
in interest rates could impact the availability exibility and delay to works.
Target longer and staggered debt maturities to and cost of debt nancing.
avoidre nancing concentration and consideration ofearly re nancing.
Derivative contracts to provide interest rate protection.
Development phasing to enable exibility and reduce financial exposure.
Reduced availability of equity capital.
Constrained growth, lost opportunities, Maintain appropriate liquidity to cover commitments.
Target conservative overall leverage levels.
Further information on Financing risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 36 to 41 and Financial Covenants on page 126.
3 Economic risks Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Impact: Economic factors may threaten the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives.
Increased competition, changes in social Declining pro tability.
Focus on prime assets and quality tenants with initial behaviour or deteriorating pro tability assessment of credit risk and active credit control.
andcon dence during a period of Diversity of occupier mix with limited exposure to any economicuncertainty.
Reduced rental income and or single tenant.
Strategic focus on creating retail destinations and residential districts with unique attributes.
Decline in UK commercial or residential Declining valuations.
realestate market heightened by continued Regular assessment of investment market conditions global macro-economic conditions or including bi-annual external valuations.
Restricted availability of credit and higher Decline in demand for the Groups Regular monitoring of covenants with taxrates and macroeconomic factors may rental properties, declining valuations, headroommaintained.
leadto reduced consumer spending and reduced pro tability.
higher levels of business failure.
Further information on Economic risks can be found within the Financial Review on pages 36 to 41.
14 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Concentration of investments Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Impact: Heightened exposure to events that threaten or disrupt central London.
Events which damage or diminish Londons Loss or injury, business disruption Terrorist insurance in place.
status as a global financial, business and ordamage to property.
Security and health & safety policies and procedures tourist centre could aff ect the Groups ability inoffi ces.
Close liaison with police and National to let vacant space, reduce the value of the Counter Terrorism Security Offi ce NaCTSO.
Groups properties and potentially disrupt access or operations at the Groups head Disaster recovery and business continuity planning.
Changes to or failure of infrastructure.
Active involvement in organisations and industry Concentration of higher pro le events in bodies promoting London.
5 Development risks Risk Impact potential Mitigation factors Impact: Inability to deliver against development plans, particularly regarding ECOA.
Unable to secure planning consent due to Delayed implementation or reduced Pre-application and continued consultation and political, legislative or other risks inherent development opportunity with involvement with key stakeholders and landowners.
Risk of corresponding impact on valuation.
Engagement with relevant authorities at a local and changeor delay due to Mayor of London national level to ensure development proposals are orSecretary of State intervention or judicial inaccordance with current and emerging policy.
Inability to gain the support of in uential stakeholders.
Project team of internal staff and external consultants with capabilities across all relevant areas.
Failure to demonstrate or implement viabledevelopment due to environmental, Technical studies with regular review.
transportation and aff ordable housing Responsive consultation with evidence based impactor other technical factors.
information and focus on agreed statements of common ground.
Inability to reach agreement on lease Higher volatility in valuations and Informed market valuation and open dialogue extension, renegotiation of use or land deals Groups returns or delay to works.
with adjacent landowners on acceptable terms Earls Court Masterplan designed to allow including risk of Section 34A of the Housing phasedimplementation.
Act 1985 in relation to land subject to CLSA.
Construction costs increase e. g. due to Reduced pro tability of development.
Extensive consultation, design and technical marketpricing, unforeseen site issues or workundertaken.
Punitive cost, design Properly tendered or negotiated processes to select orother implications.
Further information can be found in the Operating Review on pages 18 to 35.
