REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Groups financial and operational performance andreputation is subject to a number of risks.
The KEEPING CONTROL Board seeks to ensure that appropriate processes are put in place to manage, monitor and mitigate these risks of which the principal risks are identified in the table OF OUR BUSINESS below.
The Group recognises that the management of risk isfundamental to the achievement of Group targets.
As such, management throughout the Group are involved in this process.
RISK AND DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY KPIs MITIGATION INCLUDING RESPONSIBILITY Economic environment, including As described on pages 18 to 35 of the Led by the Group Chief Executive, the housing demand and mortgage Business Review, the majority of homes built Executive undertakes a weekly review of key availability by the Group are purchased by individuals trading indicators, including reservations, Changes in the UK and European who relyon the availability of mortgages.
The sales rates, Group shared equity balances, macroeconomic environments, including confidence of buyers and their ability to obtain part-exchange, visitor levels, incentives, unemployment, austerity measures, flat mortgages or other forms of financing are publically available competitor activity and economic growth, buyer confidence, impacted by the macroeconomic environment.
cash flow projections and, where possible, availability of mortgage finance, the ability Accordingly, customer demand is sensitive to appropriate management action is taken.
ofpurchasers to repay shared equity loans, changes in economic conditions.
interest rates, competitor pricing, falls in The Groups internal systems clearly identify house prices or land values or a failure of The Groups ability to grow its business the impact of sales price changes on the the housing market to recover, may lead to partly depends on securing land or options margins achievable and as a minimum the a fall in the demand for houses which in turn over sitesand having adequate resources Group performs asset impairment reviews could result in impairments of the Groups to build sufficient homes to meet demand.
inventories, goodwill and intangible assets.
The Groups ability to do this can be impacted bycash and profit constraints which, in turn, The Group works with key mortgage lenders Cost reduction measures may adversely would have an adverse effect upon net to ensure that products are appropriate affect the Groups business or its ability operating assets and net debt see also wherever possible for its customers.
torespond to future improvements in the liquidity, land and construction risks marketconditions.
The Group has Driving Profitable Sales and Commercial Action initiatives in place to seek to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of our sales processes and keep the Groups cost base tightly controlled.
Cost reduction measures are also managed via the stewardship of the Executive Committee.
Liquidity The Finance Review pages 32 to 35 Under the stewardship of the Group Finance Unavailability of sufficient borrowing facilities summarises the committed facilities Director the Group has agreed its debt to enable the servicing of liabilities including ofdifferent duration that are designed to refinancing which provides around 1bn pension funding and the inability to refinance ensure that the Group has sufficient available ofcommitted facilities and private placement facilities as they fall due, obtain surety bonds, funds for operations.
TheGroups borrowings notes with maturity dates ranging from 2013 or comply with borrowing covenants.
are cyclical during the financial year and peak to 2021.
Furthermore, there are risks to management around April May and October November of working capital such as conditional each year as, due to seasonal trends in The Group has in place a comprehensive contracts, build costs, joint ventures and income, these arethe calendar points regular forecasting process encompassing thecash flows related to them.
when the Group hasthe highest working profitability, working capital and cash flow that capital requirements.
is fully embedded in the business.
TheGroup Finance Director ensures these forecasts are The Group maintains sufficient facility regularly stress tested to ensure that adequate committed debt headroom and in addition headroom within facilities and banking has a number of trade finance and surety covenants is maintained.
On a normal operating facilities that are designed to ensure that the basis the Group has a policy of maintaining 36 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RISK AND DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY KPIs MITIGATION INCLUDING RESPONSIBILITY Liquidity continued Group has sufficient funds available.
The facility headroom of up to 150m.
The Group absence ofappropriate headroom would has a comprehensive regular forecasting limit the Groups land buying and operational process for surety bond requirements.
capability adversely impacting upon profitability and the Groups ability to The Group is in compliance with its borrowing deliver shareholder value.
covenants and at the date of approval of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts, the Groups internal forecasts indicate that it will remain in compliance with these covenants for the foreseeable future being at least 12 months from the date of signing of the 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
Attracting and retaining high Using the approaches described on pages The Group Human Resources Director calibreemployees 26 to 27 of the Business Review the Group oversees a comprehensive Human Resources Inability to recruit and or retain employees aims toattract, retain and develop a programme which includes apprenticeship with appropriate skill sets or sufficient sufficiently skilled and experienced workforce schemes, a graduate development numbers of such employees.
in order tomaintain high standards of quality programme, succession planning and training and customer service.
schemes tailored to each discipline.
These processes are embedded operationally.
Not having employees with appropriate skills The Group continues to target a fully sets can lead to build delays, quality issues, Construction Skills Certification Scheme reduced sales, poor customer care and carded and qualified operational workforce.
We monitor employee turnover levels on a monthly basis and conduct exit interviews, asappropriate, to identify any areas for improvement.
We benchmark our remuneration against industry competitors.
Availability of raw materials, The Group relies upon affordable supplies Managed by the Group Procurement Director, subcontractors and suppliers ofbuilding materials from multiple sources the Group adopts a professional approach Shortages or increased costs of materials and subcontractors to perform the majority tosite management and seeks topartner and skilled labour, the failure of a key of work on sites.
This retains flexibility to withits supply chain.
The Group has a policy supplier or the inability to secure supplies commence work on new sites and enhances of having multiple suppliers for both labour upon appropriate credit terms could the Groups build cost efficiency.
Adverse contracts and material supplies and increase costs and delay construction.
management of these suppliers and or contingency plans should any key supplier fail.
subcontractors could lead to build delays, cost increases and reduced profitability.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK AND DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY KPIs MITIGATION INCLUDING RESPONSIBILITY Land purchasing The Group needs to purchase sufficient Under the stewardship of the Group Finance Inability to secure sufficient consented land quantities of good quality, consented land at Director, potential land acquisitions are at appropriate cost and quality to provide attractive prices in order to be in a position subject to formal appraisal, with those profitable growth.
tocommence construction and enhance approved required to achieve an overall theGroups ability to deliver profit growth.
Group defined hurdle rate of return and to Ourprogress during the year is set out meet the Groups strategic criteria for growth.
onpages 24 to 25 of the Business Review.
Each division produces a detailed site-by-site monthly analysis of the amount of land Acquiring poor quality or mis-priced land currently owned, committed and identified.
would impact adversely upon profitability These are consolidated for regular review andrevenue.
at senior management and Board level.
In addition, each operating division holds regular land meetings.
Government regulation The Groups land portfolio consists of land Led by the Group Chief Executive, and andplanningpolicy forthe short and medium term as well as supported by the Director of Corporate Affairs Inability to adhere to the increasingly strategic land.
Inability to obtain suitable and Group Head of Planning, the Group stringent and complex regulatory consents, or unforeseen delays, could impact consults with the Government both directly environment, including planning and on the number or type of homes that we are and through industry bodies to highlight technical requirements affecting the able to build.
We could also be required to potential issues and has considerable housing market and regulatory fund higher than anticipated levels of planning in-house technical and planning expertise requirements more generally.
obligations, or incur additional costs to meet devoted to complying with regulations and increased regulatory requirements.
All of achieving implementable planning consents.
these would have a detrimental impact on the contribution per plot.
The Group has appropriate policies and technical guidance manuals in place to assist As described on pages 24 to 25 of the employees to achieve regulatory compliance Business Review the Group seeks to meet and the standards of business conduct regulatory and planning requirements to expected of them.
obtain the planning permission required to develop homes and communities.
Construction and new technologies The Group builds homes and communities The Groups Executive oversees weekly Failure to identify and achieve key inGreat Britain ranging from houses to reporting which identifies the number of construction milestones due to factors large-scale flatted developments.
In the properties at key stages of construction.
including the impact of adverse weather event we did not do so efficiently, or new Projected construction rates are evaluated conditions, thefailure to identify cost technologies result in quality issues, the aspart of the monthly forecasting cycle.
overruns promptly, design and construction Groups profitability and ability to grow the Progress with development projects defects, and exposure to environmental business could be impacted negatively.
including joint ventures and consortia, liabilities which could delay construction, including returns and cash flows, are increase costs, reduce selling prices and monitored regularly by divisional management result in litigation and uninsured losses.
teams and the Group obtains legal and other Also there are risks associated with climate professional advice when required.
Any change and the use of new technology in alternative forms of construction and building the build process e. g. materials related to technologies andthe quality of the materials carbon reduction.
used by the Group are subject to evaluation by external and internal technical experts including theNHBC, to ensure compliance with allbuilding and other regulations.
The Group regularly monitors a number ofenvironmental impact indicators, the resultsofwhich are disclosed in the Groups Sustainability Report.
38 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RISK AND DESCRIPTION RELEVANCE TO STRATEGY KPIs MITIGATION INCLUDING RESPONSIBILITY Construction and new technologies Appropriate insurance cover is maintained continued forthe Groups main risks.
Joint ventures and consortiums Due to their scale some projects may require Led by the Group Finance Director, potential Large development projects, some of joint venture or consortium arrangements.
joint venture arrangements are subject to whichinvolve joint ventures or consortium Failure of a joint venture or consortium partner formal appraisal and appropriate external arrangements and or commercial to perform its financial and or operational advice is obtained before such arrangements developments, are complex and capital obligations can place additional capital or are approved.
Once operational, the intensive and changes may negatively operational burdens upon the Group.
performance of joint ventures are subject impactupon cash flows or returns.
toregular operational and financial review.
Health and Safety Health and safety is a key issue in the Reporting to the General Counsel, the Group Health and safety breaches can result housebuilding sector.
Given the inherent risks, Head of Safety, Health and Environment in injuries to employees, subcontractors itisof paramount importance to the Group.
manages a dedicated health and safety and site visitors, delays in construction Senior management and the Board review department, which is independent of the increased costs, reputational damage, health and safety matters on a regular basis management of the operating divisions.
criminal prosecution and civil litigation.
and seek to reduce injury incidence rates by Health and safety audits are undertaken on implementing policies and procedures aimed aregular basis and processes are modified at keeping staff and visitors free from injury.
as required with a view to seeking continuous Our performance this year against our injury improvement.
Performance is reviewed bythe incident rate KPI is set out on pages 31 of the Health and Safety Committee that meets Business Review.
Each month, health and safety reports are cascaded by each division, for In addition to the possibly tragic impact of an review by the Executive Committee and accident on-site, there is potential for legal Board, which also receives a direct report proceedings, financial penalties, reputational every six months from the Group Head of damage and delay to the sites progress.
Information Technology IT The ability to optimise prices and ensure Led by the Group IT Director a dedicated Failure of the Groups IT systems, operational efficiency is essential to the in-house IT team regularly monitors and in particular those relating to surveying Groups performance.
The Groups integrated maintains Group IT systems to ensure and valuation, could adversely impact management systems enable the Group continued functionality.
A fully tested disaster the performance ofthe Group.
to maintain tight control, especially with recovery programme is in place.
regard to surveying and valuation.
Adverse IT performance could cause delays in build, and have an adverse impact on operational efficiency and profit.
Details of the Groups management of liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk in relation to financial instruments are provided in note 25 on pages 109 to 114 of this report.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are provided in note 33 on page 127.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39
