Risk Report The Board places significant importance on identifying and managing the risks facing the business.
These encompass the risks, real and perceived, of operating in a foreign market such as Russia, to the more obvious cyclical, property specific risks, presented by the development and investment in a large property portfolio.
In the last eight years we have addressed the fundamental risks of entry into any new market, identifying experienced and trustworthy local joint venture partners in the early stages and gradually building up our own domestic presence.
We are now the largest player in our niche and have all of the in house skills required to manage both local regulatory and generic property risks.
Our in house expertise includes legal, finance and accounting, leasing, asset management and construction departments.
We believe that we have the structure and culture in place to identify and effectively manage the risks that our market and sector presents.
Our primary focus is on obtaining attractive returns for our shareholders and as such, we have a commensurate focus on financial risks.
Set out below is an overview of how we manage our key financial risks.
Financial Risks Our strategy from the outset has been simple: to build an investment portfolio in the Russian warehouse sector which allows us to generate a dollar denominated, ungeared yield on cost of 12%.
We believed that this would translate into very attractive dividend yields for our shareholders.
Gearing Gearing has enabled us to accelerate our growth but we have managed the increased risk to the Group by raising asset secured facilities, ring-fenced in special purpose vehicle structures.
We have not taken any significant bank debt exposure onto the holding company balance sheet to date.
This allows us to monitor both our debt service obligations at an asset level but maintain low gearing ratios at a consolidated level.
Our Group gearing levels, not including preference shares, have been managed between 35% and 46%.
This held us in good stead during a busy speculative construction period in 2008 and 2009 and through the recent financial crises.
The changing banking landscape and the diminishing number of players in the market, combined with our maturing portfolio, may mean that we do look to alternative financing structures in the future.
We have demonstrated this already with the issue of preference shares and we may, in time, change our financing risk profile to a more central financing structure, using the portfolio as a whole, to reduce our effective cost of debt.
Key Performance Indicators With the impact of gearing and our preference shares on results, we place emphasis on our Underlying Earnings as defined in note 9 to the financial statements and operating cash flows after financing costs.
These measures give the most relevant and comparable information on the operating performance of our portfolio and our ability to pay dividends from those operations.
We also monitor our loan to value covenants and the impact of valuations on our diluted net asset value per share.
However, given that valuation yields in our market remain significantly above other comparable European markets close to replacement cost and result in high cash cover on debt service, we do not currently see this as a key metric on our performance.
Property Acquisition and Development The market in which we operate has been and continues to be undersupplied.
This means that we have had to construct the majority of our portfolio speculatively, 2008 and 2009 being the periods of greatest construction activity.
The global downturn, resulted in this new space taking time to let with the cost of vacant space being carried by the Group.
We have now reached letting levels that reduce this cost to fide minimis levels.
20 Risk Report continued New development in todays market has the potential to deliver high income yields, especially on additional phases of existing assets.
We have commenced a speculative construction programme limited to a maximum of 100,000 sqm in any year.
This allows us to manage the construction and letting risk on new space in the context of our existing portfolio of 1.3 million sqm.
The market has also presented acquisition opportunities in the last year, of completed, fully let properties.
We have completed two acquisitions in the year at prices that allow us to maintain our yield on cost target but also give the opportunity to enhance this through asset management.
Acquisitions present their own risks in our market as we have not been involved in the historic construction and management of the sites.
Whilst this adds to the potential for enhanced asset management returns it also introduces the risk of legacy contracts that may need to be managed out.
This is all part of the integration risk of introducing new assets to the portfolio.
In the context of the narrative above, we have set out in the following table the principal risks and uncertainties that face our business, our view on how those risks have changed during the year and a description of how we mitigate or manage those risks.
Financial Risk Risk Impact Mitigation Bank Lending Debt facility maturities now have a weighted average of 4.6 years with only The number of banks Reduced access to one near term maturity at 31 December 2012.
A new facility agreement has lending in our market funding and potential been signed following the year end, refinancing this near term maturity: diminishes because of increase in funding cost.
exposure to the Reduces ability to Larger Russian domestic lenders are now offering debt on similar terms to Eurozone.
refinance maturing the International banks who have exited the market: facilities.
Alternative sources of funding such as preference shares are available: and Facilities have a mix of amortising profiles and approximately $50 million of principal is repaid each year.
This means that our gearing levels are low 44.1% at 31 December 2012 and debt service coverage ratios are more than adequately met.
Interest rates Group profitability and The majority of our variable cost of debt is hedged with the use of swaps and Cost of debt increases.
debt service cover caps on US LIBOR for 5 year terms: reduces.
The weighted average remaining term of existing hedge instruments is over 3 years.
21 Risk Report continued Risk Impact Mitigation Foreign Exchange Adverse movements in A reduction in our US Rental income, whilst received in Roubles, is pegged to the US Dollar Rouble or Sterling Dollar denominated exchange rate, the exchange risk being passed to tenants: against US Dollar.
We retain sufficient Rouble funds from rent collection to meet Rouble expenditure requirements: Construction costs are payable in Roubles, if we have insufficient Rouble resources to cover future construction payments we will enter into Non Deliverable Forward instruments to retain certainty on our US Dollar returns: Our largest Sterling exposure is the payment of preference share coupon and ordinary share dividends: We have capped the exposure of our preference share coupon to December 2015 and retain Sterling cash where possible to cover known ordinary share dividend commitments: and Our balance sheet is open to unrealised losses on foreign exchange if the US Dollar weakens against Sterling and or the Rouble.
Property Investment Risk Impact Mitigation Composition of portfolio Portfolio made up of Potentially reduces Assets are located in different local markets and Moscow remains the main predominately one asset liquidity of the portfolio: hub for supply throughout Russia: class with concentration and in Moscow.
Moscow has a larger population than any other European City save Istanbul Could cause volatility in and can support niche players because of its size: income and valuation movements.
There remains a structural under supply of Grade A warehouses in Moscow and Russia as a whole: Our focussed approach provides detailed understanding of our sector: We monitor concentration within the portfolio, our largest asset represents 15% of the total portfolio: and The average investment property lot size is $113 million on a portfolio valued at $1.5 billion.
Customers Slow down in Russian Reduced consumer We have a diversified tenant base our largest tenant, X5 Group, represents growth and consumer demand will impact on 11.5% of rental income : spending.
demand for new Almost 50% of our income comes from tenants who make less than a 2% lettings, renewal of contribution to rent roll: existing leases and High quality property portfolio, of which 67% is located around Moscow: restrict rental growth.
Experienced internal leasing team: and Strong relationships with existing customers.
22 Risk Report continued Risk Impact Mitigation Acquisitions Immature investment Lack of available We have an internal management team with both international and Russian market where legacy acquisitions requires experience allowing issues to be identified prior to acquisition: issues are common with reliance on speculative External advisers undertake full detailed due diligence: and Russian corporate development for growth.
Organic growth through speculative development managed at levels below acquisitions.
Where acquisitions are 10% of existing portfolio in any one year.
possible legacy issues may erode earnings enhancement.
Property Development Risk Impact Mitigation Speculative Nature Occupiers are reluctant Requires speculative We monitor market cycle and likely tenant demand before committing to new to enter into development which will developments: commitments to take reduce income through Our developments are built in phases to allow suspension of construction if new space prior to vacant possession cost markets move adversely: and asset construction and valuation impact.
Current development plans limit construction to between 50,000 and 100,000 sqm in any 12 month period, less than 10% of the current portfolio.
Returns Development projects Target yield not met and Full project appraisals prepared with appropriate monetary and timing fail to deliver the profitability reduced.
contingencies: expected returns Foreign exchange exposure hedged where necessary: and through cost and time Experienced in house construction team project manage all projects.
Russian Domestic Risk Risk Impact Mitigation Legal Framework The legal framework in Large volume of new Experienced in house legal team review new legislation for any impact on the Russia is in the early legislation from various business: and stages of its state bodies is open to External legal advisers used when necessary.
interpretation, puts strain on the judicial system and can be open to abuse.
Russian Taxation Russian tax code is also Tax treaties may be The key tax treaty for the Group is with Cyprus and this was renegotiated in developing and new renegotiated and new the last 12 months with no significant impact on the business: rulings regularly legislation may increase Russia is a relatively low tax jurisdiction with 20% Corporation tax: introduced.
the Groups tax The Group structures itself in anticipation of Russias move towards a more expense.
Western taxation structure encompassing concepts such as thin capitalisation and transfer pricing.
23 Risk Report continued Other Operational Risks Risk Impact Mitigation Key Personnel Failing to retain key Inability to implement The Remuneration Committee and the Executives review remuneration personnel.
packages against comparable market information: Employees have regular appraisals and documented development plans and targets: and Incentive schemes are based on measurable annual targets and weighted towards share based rewards.
Business systems Business and IT system Disruption impacts on Disaster recovery plans in place and all data stored remotely: disruption.
IT specialists now employed in house: and Full upgrade of systems carried out in 2012.
The majority of these risks have remained the same over the year.
The most significant change has arisen following the acquisitions made in the year and the integration of those assets into the portfolio, including dealing with legacy contract issues.
