Our business Our governance Our results Risks and uncertainties facing the business Given the scale and diversity of our businesses, the Board The Corporate Governance report on pages 36 to 42 describes recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our the systems and processes through which the Board manages key operational and strategic risks are subject to continuous and mitigates risks.
The Board oversees an established risk management framework which is designed to provide it with appropriate visibility Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating to of the Groups key risks.
The Board members participated in a the Groups operations, along with their potential impact and the facilitated risk workshop in 2012 to review and challenge the mitigating factors in place, is set out below.
It is not possible to inherent risks of the Group.
It regularly assesses the effectiveness mitigate fully all of our risks and there may be other risks and of its strategies for managing and mitigating the Groups risks and uncertainties besides those listed below which may also the controls implemented to manage them.
adversely affect the Group and its performance.
Change Key risk Description from 2011 Mitigating factors Global market conditions remain volatile, Our strategy of diversifying our service offering and Currency and with uncertainty in several of our sectors geographic spread mitigates the impact on the country risks and markets.
The restrictions facing our business of weak market conditions in specific clients on credit availability continues.
geographies, particularly from more widespread Group earnings and or our financial uncertainty, but these factors cannot entirely mitigate condition could be adversely affected the overall risk to earnings.
To reduce the potential by these macroeconomic uncertainties.
impact of these risks, we continually focus on our cost base and seek to improve operational Savills operates in 23 countries which efficiencies.
increases the risk that we will be affected by geopolitical and or economic Our continual monitoring of market conditions uncertainties associated with doing and review of market changes against our Group business in those jurisdictions.
strategy, supported by the quarterly reforecasting and reporting undertaken by all of our businesses, remain key to our ability to respond rapidly to changes in our operating environment.
Our exposure to countries currently with financial difficulties implementing austerity measures is balanced by our business in other markets.
When considering entry into a new country we undertake due diligence to assess the impact of any political or economic issues in that particular country.
The markets in which we operate remain To remain competitive in all markets, it is imperative Achieving the highly competitive and we need to ensure that we continue to provide the quality of client care right market that we continue to reflect the changing and service that our clients expect from us.
This positioning in needs of our clients.
need drives our strategy to continuously grow the response to capabilities and strengthen the services offered by the needs of the Group.
We continue to invest in the development of client relationships globally and associated best in our clients class systems to support our client service offering.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 31 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Change Key risk Description from 2011 Mitigating factors Savills is a brand with an excellent We recognise that our brand strength is vital to Reputational reputation in the markets in which we maintaining market share and expanding into and brand risk operate.
We recognise the need to new markets.
To this end, we have a brand maintain our reputation as a quality management programme in place to ensure the brand and to continue to ensure the brands positioning, identity and personality is quality of the service we provide.
We recognise that the quality of the service we offer is vital to maintaining the brand and we have in place policies, controls and processes to monitor the quality of our client service to support our programme of continuous improvement.
We recognise that our ability to deliver our We continue to invest in the development of our Recruitment strategy is dependent on us attracting, people and extend our training and development and retention developing, motivating and retaining programmes across a number of businesses.
of high people of the highest quality.
This is calibre staff fundamental to the future success of Our profit sharing approach to remuneration is our business.
combined with selective use of share-based and other longer term incentives to ensure that our people are incentivised to perform over the longer term and to remain with the business.
Team scorecards and individual appraisals ensure that rewards are based on improvements in client service, business development, people management, delivery of personal and financial objectives such asworking in co-operation with other teams from other parts of the business as well as financial performance.
We are required to meet a broad range Our Group Policy Framework, which sets out Maintaining of regulatory compliance requirements in our standards regarding professional, regulatory, standards of each of the markets in which we operate.
statutory compliance and business conduct, is professional, For example, in the UK, the Financial subject to regular review.
To support this Framework regulatory Services Authority FSA regulates the each of our businesses has its own regulatory and statutory conduct of Savills Capital Advisors and and statutory compliance resources who maintain Cordea Savills Investment Management, the internal processes and controls required to compliance and the insurance intermediary services we fulfil our compliance obligations.
Our compliance provide to clients in Savills UK.
In addition, environment, at all levels, is subject to regular review the UK Office of Fair Trading regulates our by internal audit and other assurance providers.
Residential business in the UK.
A number of the services we provide through our UK businesses are regulated by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity, brand reputational damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our staff and others affected by our activities.
32 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Change Key risk Description from 2011 Mitigating factors Failure to fulfil our regulatory or contractual The Group has legal and regulatory compliance Legal risk obligations to clients could subject the policies which are designed to mitigate against Group to regulatory action and or claims the risk of such action claims being made and from clients.
The adverse outcome of such where such claims occur, to limit liability, particularly action claims could negatively impact our in relation to consultancy services such as reputation, financial condition and or the Valuations.
Such policies are regularly reviewed results of our businesses.
in accepting client engagements, Group The Group maintains appropriate levels of companies may be subject to duty of professional indemnity insurance to respond to care obligations.
Failure to satisfy these and mitigate the Groups financial exposure to obligations could result in claims being such claims.
made against the relevant Group company and or its staff in our Property Management business, we may assume responsibility for appointing and or supervising third party contractors that provide construction and engineering services for our managed properties.
Again, failure to discharge these responsibilities in accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the Group companies in our Valuation Consultancy businesses, we can be subject to claims alleging the over-valuation of a property.
For all areas of financial risk we have The key financial risks and uncertainties are identified Managing our an established financial control in the Financial review on pages 24 to 26. financial risks framework with clear responsibilities for operational and finance teams at We minimise the risk as far as possible in local all levels of the Group.
operations through natural hedging by ensuring that revenue and cost are managed in the local currency.
We recognise that there is a currency risk attached to operating in a large number of countries, particularly given the transaction element of our business.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 33
