54 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risks and Uncertainties HOw wE MANAGE OUR RISkS risk and Potential imPact mitigation Market economic changes such as higher Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates We choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a interest rates, reduced demand for land sector or location-specific risks stable and mature, albeit cyclical economy and property market.
By involvement with all sectors of and new properties e. g. residential, that economy and property market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas.
Active portfolio management achieves a better reduced availability of credit and declining Over the course of the last year, the continuing sovereign debt problems within the Eurozone means thanmarket utilisation of assets 1 investment yields restrict business that the overall market position continues to represent a high risk.
Hedging policy reduces interest rate risk development and cause valuation falls.
economic and market risk Failure to identify a pipeline of future Team of professionals with residential experience The planning environment is becoming more difficult with an increased likelihood of delays in the residential sites reduces our supply of andexpertise planning process.
However, our scale and expertise means that we are still being successful in this homes or reduced availability of mortgage area, although individual schemes may suffer delay.
Demand for new homes remains strong, although Uncertainty in the economic Extensive land bank with a continuing stream finance adversely impacts demand for one of the main factors restricting this demand is the lack of availability of new mortgage finance.
ofplanning applications and market environment homes in .
Anyprogress in this area would be helpful.
Flexible approach to mortgage financing increases the risk attached e. g. sharedequity schemes toproperty valuation and Use of JV partners with residential expertise development returns e. g. Persimmon Poor market intelligence i. e. failure to Regional offices in touch with their local market The excellent reputation and financial capacity of the Company have enabled us to continue to win anticipate market changes leads to schemes and grow the land bank to record levels, even in the current  climate.
Dedicated central resource supporting regional teams selection of inappropriate and, ultimately, In this environment, with a reduced number of active competitors, we expect to be able to continue to Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions unprofitable schemes.
and schemes in order to adapt to market changes Projects, acquisitions and disposals are reviewed andfinancially appraised within clearly defined authority limits Declining rental yields and or loss of key Diverse and extensive rent roll over 1,700 tenants Our diverse tenant base mitigates this risk but uncertain UK economic growth prospects and low tenants results in reduced profitability and business confidence means that there is a continuing high risk in this area.
Financial checks carried out on new tenants cash flow.
Rents at affordable end of scale Financial collapse of, or dispute with, a key Monthly review of performance to identify if senior Our key partners are Persimmon PLC, VINCI PLC and Salhia Real Estate K. S. C. of Kuwait.
These are joint venture partner leads to financial loss.
management intervention is required financially strong partners with good prospects, even in the current economic environment.
Where we have financially weaker partners, we are exiting from these arrangements, meaning that the overall risk Flexible but legally secure contracts with partners has reduced year-on-year.
Availability of funding reduces, causing Recurring income from rents provides funding Our prudent approach to forward commitments, speculative development and asset disposals has alack of liquidity that impacts borrowing forongoing overhead and interest costs enabled us to optimise operational cash flows and to offset the impact of fluctuating market capacity and reduces the saleability conditions.
Furthermore, we have once again recorded a trading profit in the year, demonstrating our Strong relationships with key banks ofassets.
ability to succeed in varying markets.
Despite the ongoing sovereign debt issues continuing to restrict 2 Financial headroom maintained to general bank funding, the successful launch of our first retail bond has diversified our debt financing provideflexibility profile by providing access tounsecured long-term funding.
Alternative sources of funding e. g. retail bond financial risk Weighted average expiry of bank facilities is Our geared financial structure 3.4years at November 2012 means that there are inevitable risks attached to the Unforeseen significant changes to cash Regular and detailed cash flow forecasting Our year end cash position is in line with the guidelines that we set at the start of the year.
availabilityof funding and the flow requirements e. g. operating cost enables monitoring of performance and increases, pension fund shortfall limit the management of future cash flows management of fluctuations ability of the business to meet its ongoing inour cash flows commitments.
Failure to value properties fairly, leading to Independent valuation by external experts and The valuation of our properties is undertaken externally every six months.
Our methodologies are lower than anticipated profits yields.
validation by external auditors consistent and cautious, always allowing for future uncertainties and for housebuilder profit on our residential land.
Professionally conducted and conservative property valuation process 55 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 change since 2011 commentary annual rePort Market economic changes such as higher Regional spread and portfolio diversity mitigates We choose to operate only in the UK, which is subject to relatively low risk and low returns from a interest rates, reduced demand for land sector or location-specific risks stable and mature, albeit cyclical economy and property market.
Professionally conducted and conservative property valuation process Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 56 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risks and Uncertainties continued HOw wE MANAGE OUR RISkS continued risk and Potential imPact mitigation Inadequate due diligence on major new Use and close supervision of a preferred Our programme for the year has been delivered successfully and we have conducted robust schemes leads to unforeseen exposures, supplychain of high quality trusted suppliers processes in selecting contractors for future projects.
costs and liabilities, which prevent effective andprofessionals delivery and result in financial loss.
Projects, acquisitions and disposals are reviewed 3 and financially appraised in detail, with clearly defined authority limits construction Contractual liability clearly defined risk Inadequate construction delivery and Strong internal construction management team During the year, all of our developments have been completed on time and within budget.
The management of procurement leads to quality issues Ourcontractor selection processes are rigorous.
However, given the economic environment andthe Clearly defined formal tender process that andcost overruns causing customer consequentially increased risk of contractor insolvency, we have this year increasingly biased our developments is a complex evaluates qualitative and quantitative factors dissatisfaction and or financial damage.
contractor selection in favour of financially stable and robust contractors.
inbidassessment process Use and close supervision of a preferred supplychain of high quality trusted suppliers andprofessionals National Planning Policy Framework Use of high quality professional advisers Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning process, and internal procedures for spreading best changes adversely impact on our business practice, ensure we remain abreast of most developments.
Furthermore, we continue our efforts to Active involvement in public consultation strategy by limiting our ability tosecure influence public policy debate.
Although the current fluctuations in proposed planning legislation mean Constant monitoring of all aspects of the planning viable permissions and or by removing that future rules are uncertain, our expertise should enable us to prosper relative to our competitors, process by experienced in-house experts 4 ourcompetitive advantage.
Contacts in place with central and localgovernment regulatory and compliance risk Failure to manage long-term environmental Use of high quality external advisers We are willing to accept a degree of environmental risk, enabling higher returns to be made.
issues relating to brownfield and Theinherent risks are passed on or minimised where possible but cannot be eliminated, although the Highly qualified internal staff Our work is undertaken in a contaminated sites leads to a major residual risks have been acceptably low in recent years.
Risk assessments conducted as part of due complex environment with environmental incident, resulting in financial diligence process consequent compliance risks and or reputational damage.
Full warranties from professional consultants and remediation contractors Defined business processes to proactively manage issues HS&E culture leads to a major incident Performance indicators are reviewed monthly at Health and safety continues to be a high priority.
The assessment of environmental costs andthe e. g. serious injury to, or death of, an Board level subsequent optimising of remediation solutions is an integral part of our acquisition and postemployee, client, contractor or member acquisition process.
We seek to minimise or pass on any such environmental risks, and believe that Use of high quality external HS&E advisers ofthe public or non-compliance with the residual risk remains acceptably low.
In other social and ethical areas, our operations are Defined business processes to proactively legislation, resulting in financial penalties underpinned by a simple but rigorous set of operating commitments.
manage issues and or reputational damage.
Lack of succession planning and or over Succession planning monitored at Board level We continue to offer attractive and competitive remuneration packages as is evidenced by the lack of reliance on key people causes loss of andbelow vacancies.
We continue to adapt our recruitment strategy to source the skills that will support the failure to attract good people and or Companys long-term business objectives.
Targeted recruitment with competitive, significant disruption loss of IP.
performance-driven remuneration packages 5 organisational risk Our activities require highly skilled and motivated people in order to deliver consistently and effectively 57 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 HOw wE MANAGE OUR RISkS continued change since 2011 commentary annual rePort Inadequate due diligence on major new Use and close supervision of a preferred Our programme for the year has been delivered successfully and we have conducted robust schemes leads to unforeseen exposures, supplychain of high quality trusted suppliers processes in selecting contractors for future projects.
performance-driven remuneration packages 5 organisational risk Our activities require highly skilled and motivated people in order to deliver consistently and effectively Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
