Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 33 Principal risks and uncertainties Robust risk management.
The identification of the most significant risks that face the group istheresponsibility of the board.
Risk identification procedures takeinto account each of the groups strategic objectives.
The development of mitigation plans and actions to manage these risks isdelegated to the executive board and other senior management.
Mitigation plans and actions required are communicated to business unit management who are responsible for their implementation.
Business unit management teams are responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of local risks, so that, where possible, risksare reduced to acceptable levels.
David Lawler Company Secretary The board Sets strategic objectives Agrees key risk appetite, identifies keyrisks and ensures they are appropriately managed Sets delegation of authority Approves group policy and procedures Executive board Risk management assistance Audit committee Monitors performance and changes Monitors assurance and risk Guidance and advice to business line and inkey risks facing the business, and business unit management to help them management arrangements provides regular reports to the board with the following: Agrees key actions to manage risks Risk, identification procedures, quantification and mitigation plans Health and Safety Fire Management Insurance Business line and business Effectiveness of risk and unitmanagement controlprocesses Management and employees are Reviews of the effectiveness responsible for the identification, of key risk management assessment, management and andcontrolprocesses including: reporting of local risks Internal Audit Maintenance of local risk registers External Audit Implementation of key risk Group Insurer Property mitigationplans Risk Surveys Assurance lines of defence 1 2 3 Business line and business unit management Group support Independent assurance Berendsen plc Report and 34 Accounts 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties k Monthly reports to the board from Our focus in 2012 Culture theChief Executive Officer, Finance We have devoted significant time The group maintains an open style of Director and the Managing Directors tosupporting the business with the communication.
This is designed to of the Workwear, Facility and UK Flat implementation of the revised risk identify any problems and issues early Linen business lines: management processes introduced sothat appropriate action is taken k Regular business line management forthe new organisational structure.
quickly to minimise any impact on board meetings for principal business Theboard has been updated throughout thebusiness.
The characteristics of units these are often attended by the year on the progress being made.
ourgroup culture have been further either the Chief Executive Officer or enhanced with the development this We carried out a further desktop the Chief Financial Officer, executive year of our new group intranet, the scenario-based review of our business board meetings and company board Berendsen Universe.
This provides an continuity planning arrangements at meetings.
At these meetings existing, extensive platform for our employees akey location in the UK.
A number new and emerging operational, tokeep updated with the latest news, ofopportunities for improvement financial and other risks are discussed, thekey group policies and procedures wereidentified which management together with appropriate actions to and to share best practice with others.
manage these risks are agreed and Our new vision and values complement followed up: In the final quarter of 2012 we updated the characteristics of our culture.
key operational group policies on health k Monthly performance reviews by and safety including fire management, Ongoing process for risk identification, theChief Financial Officer and the business continuity planning and evaluation and management Group Financial Controller with the building asset management.
These Managing Directors of the UK Flat Throughout 2012 and up to the date werepresented to the executive board Linen, Facility and Workwear business ofthe approval of these financial for their approval in January 2013, and lines, often attended by the Chief statements there has been an ongoing will be implemented at all businesses Executive Officer: process for the identification, evaluation inthe group during 2013. and management of the most significant k Discussion of any identified significant In March 2013, an external independent risks faced by the group.
This process issues or control weaknesses and, if review of the groups risk management has included the following: considered necessary, their inclusion systems was performed.
Findings will be k Appropriate delegation of authorities in reports to the executive board and discussed by the board on 25 April 2013 the board: approved by the board that include and actions agreed to implement any formal authorisation procedures k Maintenance of business unit agreed improvements.
forallinvestments as well as clear riskregisters: guidelines on appraisal techniques : k Maintenance of a group risk register Risk identification, evaluation k Clear responsibilities of line and and schedule of key controls which and management financial management for the sets out the most significant risks maintenance of good financial The board is responsible for determining facing the group and the actions controls and the production and the nature and extent of significant risks being taken in mitigation, which is review of detailed, accurate and timely it is willing to take to achieve its strategic regularly updated and reviewed by financial management information: objectives.
At the February, June and the board: and December 2012 board meetings the k A comprehensive financial review k A structured and approved board reviewed the most significant cycle, which includes a rolling programme of internal audit risksfacing the group.
three-year planning process, an visitswiththe implementation of annual budget approved by the recommendations made being board, review of monthly variances monitored as part of a continuous against budget and quarterly programme of improvement.
re-forecasting of annual performance: k Provision to management and the Internal control board of relevant, accurate and timelyinformation, including key The board also has responsibility for performance indicators, based establishing, maintaining and reviewing onreliable management information the effectiveness of the groups risk systems which are regularly improved management and internal control systems.
and updated: These internal control systems are Shaped for designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve managing risk in our supply chain abusiness objective.
They can thereforeonly provide reasonable We recognise the inherent risks associated with andnot absolute assurance against the use of non-European textile suppliers.
In order material misstatement or loss.
to better manage these risks, we have recently engaged a specialist independent assurance Read more about the boards annual provider who will regularly assess suppliers on assessment of the effectiveness of arange of issues including wages, working hours, discrimination and child labour.
Their shared online internal control systems on page 62. database will log any issues identified and actions required, improving our ability to monitor supplierperformance.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 35 Risks to achieving our strategicobjectives.
Detailed below are the principal risks and uncertainties facingthe group for the next 12 months.
The change in the significance of each risk is also shown.
The board believes that the risks associated with cotton price volatility have reduced.
We are making improved progress with the management ofourdecontamination contracts in the UK, as well as talent management, recruitment and retention processes.
As well as narrative description of How we see our principal risks theprincipal risks and uncertainties facing the group, we use a risk k mappingtechnique to inform the boardof the potential impact and j likelihood significance of management h focus of each risk.
These are assessed a c using established criteria and metrics.
i g This allows the board to focus their b d discussions on those risks regarded as f potentially having the most significance, and also to identify risks where their e significance is potentially increasing ordecreasing.
The table below details the risks shownin the risk map above, the key performance Low Moderate Major High indicators KPI likely to be affected, the Likelihood of risk occurring significance of management focus mitigation in 2012 and further progress For a full description of each risk please see the tables below planned for 2013.
Delivering sustainable organic growth Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k New organisational structure implemented k Start-up of group-wide sales a.
New sales model fails to deliver from 1 January 2012 which has given more developmentwork.
NEW the necessary new contract wins focus on growth areas.
k Sales director group to follow up and to drive targeted organic growth k Appointment of central sales directors improve sales processes.
forWorkwear, Cleanroom, Mats and Potential impact k Group-wide sales pay scheme gradually Washroom and UK Flat Linen core growth k Reduction in future profitability being implemented.
These will target local country sales andcashflow.
k Commencement of commercial terms directors to add focus and speed k Failure to deliver targeted growth andpricing education programme for ofresponse.
managers and frontline personnel across k Pricing managers appointed for each the group.
business unit, business line and the group.
KPI likely to be affected k Pricing network to be implemented.
k Revenue growth k New reporting system to provide monthly Allsales managers across core growth progress against business line budgets, areas extensively trained in Berendsen Read more detail: including key performance indicators.
Page 16 k Sales remuneration analysis completed.
k Monthly management accounts distributed to the board include key performance indicators on organic revenue growth, contract gains and customer losses.
Impact Low Moderate Major High Berendsen plc Report and 36 Accounts 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties Risks to achieving our strategicobjectives.
Maintaining a sound financial position Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k Long range plans for business lines k Continued monitoring of lead indicators, b.
including hotel and workwear volumes.
lowor negative GDP growth k Tight and closely monitored controls k Continued tight and closely monitored inEurope overcapital expenditure and working controls over capital expenditure and Stable Potential impact capital including capital efficiency review.
k Reduction in future profitability and k Monitoring of various lead indicators cashflow.
against experience in 2008 9, including hotel and workwear volumes.
k Adverse pressure on pricing and margins.
k Limit to ability to complete strategy.
KPI likely to be affected k Return on invested capital k Free cash flow adjusted profit for theyear k Net debt to EBITDA Read more detail: Page 1617 Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k Borrowings in currencies to provide k High level of balance sheet hedging c. Movements in exchange rates hedgeagainst the cashflows of majority willcontinue no plans for income adversely affect the translation ofoverseas net assets in euro, DKK and statement hedging at this stage.
of our group results into SEK no exposure to investments in Stable UKsterling Greece, Italy, Turkey, Spain or Portugal.
Potential impact k Unexpected variations in group netearnings.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share Read more detail: Page 16 Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k ROIC target set at 10% for the medium k Continued focus on generation of free d. Return on Invested Capital term.
Reported monthly by business line to cashflow.
ROIC is not sufficiently greater the board in group management accounts.
k ROIC targets for senior management than the groups cost of capital Stable k Delegations of authority reviewed nowextended beyond members of Potential impact andupdated in January 2012. theexecutive board and cascaded down the organisation.
k Lack of funds for future investments.
k Post-acquisition procedure to monitor returns on investments made, compared k Continuation of Capital Efficiency k Reduction in future profitability and to those targeted.
k Ongoing Capital Efficiency Programme KPI likely to be affected toreduce levels of working capital.
k Return on invested capital Read more detail: Page 17 Shaped for focusing on what matters Fire is a significant risk to our business.
Over the lastfour years independent property surveys havebeen completed at all key locations.
These surveys assess the quality of our fire protection, firemanagement and business continuity planningarrangements.
Compliance withall recommendations is regularly monitored by theboard.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 37 4.
Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k The board receives regular updates k Continued focus on the identification e. Failure to improve the performance onprogress from UK management.
andimplementation of efficiency initiatives of the Decontamination business Thisrecognises good levels of to further reduce losses.
during 2013 customerservice, improved efficiency k Working with our customers to achieve Reduced andinterest from potential new customers.
Potential impact astreamlining of processes.
k Efficiency initiatives put in place k Reduction in future profitability and k Identification of new volumes using reducinglosses 2012 loss 2.2 million cashflow.
k Need for further provisions for losses k Ongoing discussions regarding oncontracts.
k Failure to deliver targeted growth k No further significant investments planned.
k Potential loss of management reputation and credibility.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share dividend per share Read more detail: Page 16 Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k Documented and evaluated business k Implementation of updated group-wide f. Unforeseen loss of operational continuity plans including identification policies and procedures on business ITcapacity ofalternative production locations.
continuity planning, building asset Potential impact management and health and safety k Fire protection security procedures and Stable including fire management.
k Inability to service customer requirements.
regular internal audits of compliance.
k Further monitoring of fire protection k Adverse impact on reputation.
k Independent surveys to assess the design andsecurity systems, including and effectiveness of plant fire protection, KPI likely to be affected respondingtothe results of our regular security and business continuity independent survey programme.
k Adjusted earnings per share arrangements, including targeted k Revenue growth desktop scenario-based testing.
k Maintenance of appropriate PropertyDamage and Business Read more detail: k Comprehensive Property Damage and Interruption insurance cover for Page 16 Business Interruption insurance.
Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k Regular risk assessment of our major k Current approach to the management g. One of our major textile textilesuppliers considering social, ofthis risk will continue.
suppliers is unexpectedly unable politicaland economic factors.
to meet our textile requirements k Identification of alternative Reduced Potential impact productionsources.
k Purchase of stock up to three months priorto delivery to reduce risk.
k Inability to service new and existing customer requirements.
k Secured availability of alternative stocks in the event of serious interruption to supply.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share k Revenue growth Read more detail: Page 16 5.
Maintaining health and safety as a priority Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k Local health, safety and fire k Implementation of updated grouph.
Breach of health and managementsystems.
widepolicy on health and safety safetyregulations .
k Regularly updated and monitored Potential impact cleaningand maintenance programmes k Further focus to target a reduction Stable k Damage to our reputation.
k Prompt incident reporting procedures k Loss of licence to operate.
tosenior management with k Reporting to the board on major subsequentmonitoring.
KPI likely to be affected k Regular board review of major incidents k Major injury rate and statistics.
Read more detail: Page 17 Berendsen plc Report and 38 Accounts 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties Risks to achieving our strategicobjectives.
Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k New succession planning process focused k Further embedding of succession plans i.
Inadequate talent management on the development of a pool of strong and talent pool identification.
and inability to recruit and retain management with identified succession k Introduction of LEAD, leadership sufficiently qualified and forthe most senior positions.
framework and basis for future Reduced experienced senior management k Succession reviews held twice yearly .
Potential impact k Introduction of group recruitment k Two executive board succession policyaimed at consistent and raised k Lack of internal succession to key reviewsheld.
standards for management recruitment management roles within the group across thegroup.
k Launch of Berendsen Academy asin-house university providing k Short medium term disruption learningprogrammes and tools for tothebusiness.
thedevelopment of management k Loss of key personnel.
k Shortage of appropriately k Enhancement and expansion of skilledmanagement.
management trainee scheme for future building of management pipeline.
KPI likely to be affected k Revised short-term and long-term k Senior management retention rate incentive plans in place aligned with Read more detail: business line and group goals targets.
Reducing our impact on the environment Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k Regular visits to major suppliers by k We have now appointed a single assurance j.
Textile suppliers are found not experienced internal personnel and provider that will be responsible for tobe adopting appropriate external parties to assess suppliers carrying out detailed audits of our major employment and human compliance with appropriate suppliers of directly sourced production.
k Continued assessment of our other k Prompt incident reporting overseas textile suppliers confirmations Potential impact procedurestosenior management oftheir adoption of appropriate k Loss of licence to operate, loss of goodwill .
and or damage to reputation.
k Continued monitoring of compliance with k Significant stakeholder concern.
our anti-bribery and corruption procedures.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share Read more detail: Page 17 Risk Mitigation in 2012 Further progress planned for 2013 Change k Established incident reporting k Current approach to the management k. Discovery of historic proceduresto senior management ofthis risk will continue.
environmental issues at laundries withsubsequent monitoring.
Potential impact k Indemnities with previous owners that Stable cover a number of acquired sites.
k Emergence of unaccounted for liability.
k The extent and coverage of these k Adverse impact on cash flow and indemnities are reviewed with the retainedearnings.
k Defence of these indemnities continues tobe vigorously prosecuted.
KPI likely to be affected k Adjusted earnings per share Read more detail: Page 17
