Property review continued Development pipeline Total Total Secured completed development Capex in Capex Forecast NAV Forecast yield beds value costs period remaining remaining on cost No.
This 759 bed property London development activity at that time.
However, our current view will be the first LSAV development project.
Stratford represents an is that London development returns will begin to decline marginally excellent location for UNITE due to its strong University presence, from 2014 onwards as economic conditions improve.
including the new 1 billion UCL campus that has recently been Outside of London and LSAV, we are beginning to explore announced, and strong transport links.
The Borough has an aspiration a number of interesting development opportunities in strong to be an education hub and UNITE will be the first accommodation University locations.
The outlook and return prospects for these to market with its two major schemes.
This accommodation will be particular markets is encouraging and it is likely that we will at a lower price point, catering to considerable unmet demand commit to non-London developments on a small scale over the from students.
These developments will be undertaken on Our exclusive position relates to a large affordable development balance sheet and capital expenditure on such projects is unlikely in a strong Zone 2 location.
If secured, it will provide 950 beds at to exceed 30 million per annum.
Taken together with UNITEs a very competitive rent level.
share of likely LSAV development approximately 65 million per year we plan to commit 90 million to 100 million to Taken together, these projects would account for approximately 40% development activity each year provided that conditions remain of LSAVs target development pipeline and both projects are expected favourable and returns compelling.
to achieve our target return hurdle of 9% yield on cost.
Future development activity There are continuing signs that the London planning environment is becoming more restrictive and with the debt markets for development finance remaining constrained by a lack of capacity, we are continuing to see opportunities to secure off market sites in London at or above our target of 9% yield on cost for the time being.
We expect to have fully secured the planned LSAV development pipeline, subject to planning, by mid-2014 and will review the prospects for further 30 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information Asset disposals 2012 2011 Proceeds Book value Proceeds Book value Open market transactions m m m m Completed exchanged Wholly owned 71 73 7 6 USAF 21 21 UCC 21 19 8 7 Total 113 113 15 13 Asset sales to JV Partners Completed exchanged Wholly owned 77 77 Total 190 190 15 13 Average yield 6.4% 6.4% 6.4% 6.4% As reected in adjusted NAV.
Asset disposals Property summary and outlook We successfully achieved our non-core asset disposal target in 2012.
Our disciplined approach to portfolio management in recent years 71 million of wholly owned assets were sold into the open market underpinned strong results for 2012.
Our disposal programme helped during the year together with 42 million owned by co-investment us improve portfolio quality and reduce leverage and our selective vehicles.
In addition 77 million core assets were sold by UNITE to development programme delivered very attractive returns while also co-investment vehicles.
The disposal proceeds generated, which were enhancing portfolio quality.
in line with book value, were used to repay borrowing and fund some Our focus for 2013 and beyond will be developing new properties new development.
in London through LSAV, as well as exploring a small number of In 2013 we plan some further non-core asset sales, both from our potential opportunities that are highly accretive elsewhere.
Our balance sheet and co-investment vehicles, as part of our on-going disposal activity will improve our portfolio quality further, while also portfolio quality objectives.
We are targeting disposals of providing us with the means to pursue development and modestly approximately 100 million by December 2013, of which 50 reduce leverage.
to 75million are likely to be from our wholly-owned portfolio.
A particular focus will be our legacy NHS accommodation in East London, valued at approximately 25 million.
Asset management During 2012 we completed three significant refurbishments at properties in Manchester, Plymouth and Shefeld, with our share of capital expenditure amounting to 1 million.
We also invested a further 5 million UNITE share in more minor improvements across the rest of the estate.
The Manchester refurbishment was of particular note, as we successfully received change of use permission for our vacant commercial space, thereby adding 58 rooms to the property.
By upgrading some of our older assets, we were able to enhance our customer experience along with delivering valuation growth as a result of increased rent levels following refurbishment.
In 2012 our share of valuation uplift was 5 million, net of capital expenditure.
This type of activity will be a continuing feature of our approach to asset management in the coming years.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31
