Principal risks The Board recognises the importance of a robust and intelligent risk management framework to safeguard Group and client assets, protect the interests of all stakeholders and meet its responsibilities as a UK listed company and parent company of a number of regulated subsidiaries.
There are a number of components to the risk management framework, each of which gives clear ownership to the management team.
These components allow us to track the risk profile of the Group, understand mitigating controls and monitor the risk profile in order to ensure that the risks that we accept do not fall outside of our appetite.
These components include: A risk register that summarises the principal risks faced by the Group.
Risk and control self assessments performed by teams across the Group and approved by senior management.
Our risk management tool, which is used to capture risk and control assessments performed by each department head, as well as track events that give rise to loss or potential loss.
This creates important management information.
Risk appetite which is set by the Board to determine the size and type of risks that the Group is prepared to accept in delivering its strategic objectives.
There are also a series of metrics that are reviewed by the Board risk committee to identify whether the risk being taken exceeds their appetite.
Both the Board and executive management review emerging risks from time to time to check that all major risks have been identified.
The output from the activities in the risk management framework forms the basis for identifying key risks below.
Strategic risk Risks Mitigating factors and changes in risk profile Investment process Movements in AuM due to markets and We make investment decisions based on the long-term, which may occasionally lead investment decisions.
We mitigate this by ensuring clients and investment consultants fully understand our investment philosophy and by openly discussing The majority of the Groups revenue is performance drivers, supported by relevant analysis of the performance components.
earned from management fees which are calculated on the basis of the value of We believe that our conservative style has helped to attract assets through a period AuM.
The value of AuM will be affected of ongoing economic uncertainly.
Our equities business has grown significantly in by general market movements, as well as recent years.
We continue to work on moderating inflows to some of these products investor appetite and actual investment to avoid any risk of dilution in the quality of the portfolios.
performance achieved by the asset There is a market risk team, independent of the fund managers, which monitors the managers.
investment profile across all asset classes.
The growth in revenues has been focused We also forecast financial results using different scenarios to stress test the impact of on key equities in recent years products.
major market falls on our capital base.
Future revenues may be sensitive to stock market fluctuations and changes in investor risk appetite to equities.
Investment mandate Risk of breach of an investment We have controls throughout the client lifecycle to mitigate breaches.
These include mandate terms leading to action for checks when we take on clients, trade and terminate.
We monitor client and fund compensation.
This could arise from mis-management These are also over overarching controls in various committees eg derivatives, of an investment mandate.
investor protection, as well as an independent review of portfolio data by market risk.
com 31 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Risks Mitigating factors and changes in risk profile Loss of key investment personnel Our reputation and client retention could We have a team based approach, which seeks to avoiding reliance upon any be damaged through significant changes one individual.
There is a strong development programme for the fund managers and we seek to encourage performance and loyalty through appropriate remuneration and our extensive benefits package, which includes a significant deferred element.
Distribution Client relationships are fundamental to We manage the risk of client retention by ensuring that our client relations teams our business and retention of AuM.
We keep in regular contact with clients to ensure that we address their changing needs.
source business through two channels of The Board views meeting customers needs and expectations as integral to the distribution: directly from institutions, or corporate culture.
Aberdeen has a global network of offices that allows us to service local clients and This incorporates the risk that we mislead the leading private banks and wealth managers.
or misrepresent products to clients this We have also brought in product specialists into distribution for key capabilities, such could create regulatory censure as well as property, money market and solutions.
From 2013, the Retail Distribution Review will impact the distribution of both retail investment products and corporate pensions in the UK, affecting the shape of the intermediary market and distribution models.
We have consulted with a wide range of distributors to ensure that we are well placed to meet the needs of clients.
Product Risk of poor product design or that We have a centralised product development team which oversees the assessment and launch of all new products across the Group.
There is a groupwide approach delivery of the final product was not covering all asset classes as well as product and competitor reviews.
It can arise from creating new products, or risk that existing products no longer meet investor requirements.
Client and service administration Business continuity There is offsite back up for our systems in place to cover each of the Group's principal We have an obligation to ensure that the operating sites and regularly test our back up plans.
These tests also cover potential business can operate at all times.
External service providers We use a small number of strategic suppliers.
This ensures a degree of competition, The Group relies on a number of third whilst ensuring that we have significant influence and leverage.
However, it also party relationships and services to carry exposes us to concentration risk and dependence on strategic providers.
The risk arises have contingency plans reviewed by the Board on how we would best manage a from the inability to effectively carry out withdrawal or failure of a strategic supplier.
robust evaluations of third parties prior We regularly review the business recovery infrastructure and strategy of these to Aberdeen engaging in dealings.
This includes visits by our senior executives to strategic suppliers during the year.
Brand Our reputation could be damaged if During the year we performed a review of our brand - to ensure it is aligned to our our brand or marketing activities are culture.
inconsistent with our culture or way of The compliance team works closely with the business to check that our marketing doing things.
materials are consistent with our products and capabilities.
32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial, legal and regulatory risks Risks Mitigating factors and changes in risk profile Legal and regulatory Aberdeen operates in a complex and The management of legal and regulatory risk is the responsibility of senior dynamic regulatory environment.
management of all functions, supported by the in-house legal and compliance teams.
Risks arise from legal and regulatory The legal and compliance teams are responsible for tracking legal and regulatory obligations and the failure to correctly development to ensure that the Group is well prepared for changes.
As well as interpret law or changes in the law which developing policies, delivering training and performing monitoring checks, they also may materially and adversely impact the provide advice to other divisions to enable compliance with legal and regulatory Group.
The Group may also be subject to requirements.
regulatory sanctions or loss of reputation from failure to comply with regulation.
They are located at key locations across all three regions.
Liquidity risk The Group aims to ensure that it will The Group's cash position, available facilities and forecast cash flows are monitored always have sufficient liquidity to meet by the Group's treasury function.
its liabilities when due under both The headroom between available facilities and amounts drawn is substantial and will normal and stressed conditions, without be maintained at a healthy level in the future, using committed borrowing facilities incurring unacceptable losses or risking where necessary to supplement cash resources retained by the Group.
We prepare damage to the Groups reputation.
long-term forecasts and use stress tests to assess the Group's future liquidity, as well as capital structure and compliance with regulatory capital.
The cash and funding position of each subsidiary is monitored and each entity has access to appropriate liquidity.
Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of We monitor the value of deposits with our counterparties against limits in our counterparty exposure.
The principal risks treasury policy.
are in respect of deposits placed with During 2012, credit ratings of a number of major banks were downgraded.
monitor our exposure to banks continuously and have increased the number of counterparties where we deposit our cash.
The Group's treasury function is supported by the front office credit team, as well as the market risk function who also perform internal credit reviews.
Where appropriate, we extend our assessment of counterparty risk to include major suppliers.
Foreign currency risk The Group's results are reported in The Board reviews the currency profile of the Group, including cash flows and sterling.
Due to the geographically balance sheet.
diverse locations in which Aberdeen variations in the sterling value of operating costs and interest costs will, to an extent, operates, business is conducted in a offset any similar impact of fluctuating exchange rates on revenues.
These include the The treasury function prepares sensitivity analysis of the effect of changes in rates.
US dollar, Singapore dollar and Euro.
Further details on sensitivity to changes in currencies are set out in note 30 of the financial statements.
