Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties This section highlights the principal risks which are considered to have a material potential impact on the Groups long-term performance and achievement of strategy.
It is not intended to be an exhaustive and extensive analysis of all risks which may affect the Company.
Further details of how our risk management framework and policies are embedded can be found on pages 48 and 49.
Risk summary Risk Impact Mitigation Many jurisdictions are beginning to regulate Any new licensing regime, adverse We work closely with a wide variety of organisations their online gambling market by introducing regulatory decisions or tax-base that involved in the regulation of online gambling.
We are fully a licensing regime.
makes it commercially unviable for engaged with the UK government regarding the ongoing Betfair to operate its exchange and review of how operators licensed elsewhere are regulated While opportunities exist, they are not products could restrict our ability to in the UK.
without risks such as commercial viability, grow the business, gain access to delays in licensing of betting exchanges new customers and ultimately, External third parties help us to substantiate evidence to compared to other products, how our increase revenues.
support using a gross profits tax model.
products are taxed and licensing one section of the online market such as sports We have a dedicated internal and external legal, tax, betting but not another, such as casino compliance and public affairs resource.
Online gaming is a very competitive Our product offering could become Our product delivery activity includes an approval process industry.
Our competitors are constantly less attractive in relation to whereby appropriate products are assessed for suitability looking to gain advantage through competitors offers.
and priority to bring to market.
aggressive marketing campaigns, pricing and promotional behaviour and new Disproportionate growth in risk Our experienced Trading team and new Client Services product features which could impact products such as multiples and xed Division constantly monitor client activity and betting revenue or margins.
odds could result in a volatile patterns relating to risk products.
We monitor competitor earnings pattern.
promotional activities, pricing and products and continue Product and delivery to market is vital to to invest in exchange technology and product development gain competitive edge to other operators.
We could fail to maximise the to make it more difficult for a competitor to launch revenues earned from products comparable products.
Like all betting operators we recognise that offered.
our platform could be targeted by those We have a fully staffed and highly skilled Integrity Team who seek to benefit from corrupt activity on Betfair products could be used by who investigate any potentially suspicious activity and a market or to use the site for the illegal criminals for money laundering or liaise with sports regulatory bodies.
We carry out routine transfer of funds.
This, or risk assessments for specic territories in relation to fraud and corruption in sport more anti-money laundering, fraud, terrorism nancing and generally, could result in negative other crimes.
publicity for sports betting and Betfair.
Our customers are at the heart of the Reduced activity by a significant We closely monitor the behaviour of customers and have business.
Macroeconomic factors such as: number of customers could have a a team focused on their management and retention.
licensing, regulatory, tax or other material adverse effect on our developments outside Betfairs control operations, financial performance We aim to ensure we provide a service and platform which could deter a significant number of and prospects.
grow value for both the customer and Betfair, and customers from using our products.
signicantly reduce the risk of customers leaving.
Poorly designed promotional activity could result in negative financial and We review our terms and conditions to ensure they are t reputational impacts.
for purpose and have processes in place to assess risk and approve promotions.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 36 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Risk summary Risk Impact Mitigation Our success and anticipated future growth Reduced ability to: Succession planning and processes are in place throughout is in part dependent on the continued the business to: services and performance of certain Directors, managers and key staff.
key staff: Our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees in an highly skilled employees: or intensely competitive environment means that competitive packages and opportunities.
development opportunities must and the Companys objectives be available.
Our employees participate in regular surveys which help us could impair our operations, to link improvements to achieving our corporate goals while financial performance and prospects.
reducing employee turnover and improving productivity and wellbeing.
We rely on IT infrastructure and systems for We rely on our customers being able We regularly review our business continuity plans and have our core operations and their overall to access markets via the internet service level agreements in place with third parties.
and any extended loss of connectivity could have a material Our Group Security team regularly review and assess our Potential risks include: effect on revenues.
systems in terms of potential threat and vulnerability.
We carry out targeted infrastructure testing and have Any failure of the Companys and or implemented our own Secure Coding Standard for use connectivity other infrastructure could lead to within the business.
We use a variety of systems and significant costs and disruptions that applications testing tools for critical customer-facing could reduce revenue and harm our applications.
by employees, third-party providers or cyber attack.
Due to the international nature of the Adverse foreign exchange exposures We monitor exposure to foreign exchange risk and where business, the Company is exposed to the could impact on Group revenues.
appropriate use financial instruments to mitigate any impact of foreign exchange uctuations on associated risk.
deposits as well as cash ows.
A break-up of the Eurozone, or defaults within it, could have a wide Incident management plans are in place to address the The future of the Eurozone is currently range of negative impacts.
unpredictable nature of events which could lead to the uncertain and could expose the Company potential default or break-up of the Eurozone.
to a wide range of issues, such as currency Refusal by card processors to process payment methods and loss of business in transactions could impair our ability We review arrangements with card processors and, in the certain jurisdictions.
event of moving certain currency transactions to another provider, our customers would be contacted and our Financial institutions could refuse to Actual or perceived mismanagement websites updated.
process transactions from online gaming of customer funds could have severe companies.
Daily and monthly reconciliations of the customer funds balance take place to ensure timely detection, in the event Betfair holds all Core customer moneys in of fraud or error.
separately managed bank accounts which are safeguarded independently of Betfairs corporate funds, under the terms of a Trust Deed.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
