Admiral Group plc 22 Annual Report 2012 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The table below sets out the principal risks currently faced by the Group, with further significant risks noted below.
The report on Corporate Governance later in the Annual Reportdescribes the risk management framework in place throughout the Group.
UK Car Insurance erosion of The impact on the business would be a A wide range of factors contribute competitive advantage worse UK Car Insurance result and lower to Admirals combined ratio outperformance Admiral has typically been able to produce return on capital employed.
These include: asignificant combined ratio advantage t & YQFSJFODFE BOE GPDVTFE TFOJPS overthe UK market as a whole.
"There is a management and teams in key business A sustained and uncorrected erosion of riskthat this advantage and or the level areas including pricing, claims management, competitive advantage could affect the ofunderwriting profit and associated operations, IT and marketing ability of the Group to extend its reinsurance profitcommission generated by Admiral t "" IJHIMZ EBUB ESJWFO BOE BOBMZUJDBM arrangements, which might in turn mean the could erode."
approachto business decisions Group having to hold more capital.
"t $ POUJOVPVT BQQSBJTBM PG BOE JOWFTUNFOU instaff, systems and processes An example of how this risk might arise t "" U SBDL SFDPSE PG JOOPWBUJPO BOE BO BCJMJUZ isafailure to successfully adapt to the EU to react quickly to market conditions Gender Directive which came into effect and developments inDecember 2012. t "" LF FO GPDVT PO NBJOUBJOJOH B MPX DPTU infrastructure and efficient acquisition costs."
UK & International Car Insurance The impact on the Group would be that Many of the potential causes of claims shocks claims shocks claims costs could rise significantly above are outside the control of the Group and the The Group is exposed to underwriting historic or expected levels, reducing the focus is, therefore, generally on how to prepare risk through its underwriting of motor Groups profitability.
This might be for a for and react to the occurrence of such events.
number of reasons, including: tFHJTMBUJWF DIBOHFT GPS FYBNQMF For very large claims catastrophe and periodic payment orders, Ogden otherwise the Group purchases excess of loss discount rate changes, the EU reinsurance, which mitigates the loss to the GenderDirective selected deductible amount typically between t 8FBUIFS SFMBUFE PS NBO NBEF 5 million and 7 million at the total claim level.
catastrophe events for example severestorm or flood The current economic environment has led t 7FSZ MBSHF OPO DBUBTUSPQIF management to have an increased focus on individual claims the identification and prevention of claims t 'SBVE PS PUIFS DIBOHFT JO fraud, including material investment in claimant behaviour systems and staff.
t 4JHOJGJDBOU JODSFBTFT JO MBSHF CPEJMZ injury claims cost inflation.
In the case of legislative changes impacting existing claims, the Group holds a buffer in booked reserves to cover significant changes.
To cover other potential claims shocks, the Group continues to hold an additional buffer in its reserves in excess of the projected ultimate outcomes.
Geographic and product expansion The impact on the Group could be higher The Groups approach to expansion is cautious.
risk of failure than planned losses and potentially closure The overseas insurance businesses start small The Group has launched eight new costs and distraction of key management.
and are all backed by proportional reinsurance operations outside the UK in the past six support which provides substantial mitigation years, and launched a UK Household against start-up losses in the early years.
A collective failure of these businesses would insurance product in December 2012. threaten the Groups objective to diversify its earnings by expanding in overseas locations.
New price comparison businesses also focus There is an ongoing risk that one or more of on modest starts with low set-up costs and the operations fail to become a sustainable relatively small initial media spend budgets.
This tends to mean that the losses a new operation can incur are minimised whilst management assess the likelihood of the business succeeding.
The Directors are mindful of management stretch and regularly assess the suitability of the management structure in place for the Groups international operations.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 23 Risk Impact Mitigating Factors 4.
Other revenue potential diminution The impact on the Group would be less Admiral earns other revenue from a portfolio There is a risk that the level of ancillary profit earned on the car insurance portfolios of products and seeks to minimise reliance on profit earned per customer will diminish.
and a lower return on capital employed.
This would mitigate the impact This might be due to regulatory or legal of a regulatory change which might affect a changes, or customer or market behaviour.
particular product or income stream.
Admiral The most immediate risk to ancillary profits continuously assesses the value of the products arises from regulatory intervention and most it offers, and makes changes to ensure the notably the referral of UK motor insurance to products continue to offer value to the Competition Commission.
are a range of possible outcomes from this study, Admiral is supportive of any changes that are likely to lead to lower claims costs.
UK Price Comparison effects of The impact on Confused.
com of higher The Groups ownership of Confused.
com, which continued competition levels of competition in the price comparison is one of the leading UK price comparison There is a highly competitive UK market with market, either through the aggressive websites and operates independently of the UK four main businesses currently attempting to activities of existing players or the entry of car insurance business, helps to mitigate the risk increase their market share through significant new participants would be to of over-reliance on this distribution channel.
However, a more competitive Admiral also contributes materially to the market might benefit the car insurance revenues of the other price comparison business through lower acquisition costs.
businesses and therefore it is not considered Admiral is dependent on the four main UK probable that a material source of new business price comparison websites as an important would be lost.
source of new business and growth.
The The impact on the UK Car Insurance growth in this distribution channel could business of losing one or more of the slow, cease or reverse, or Admiral could websites would be a potentially material The management of Confused.
com maintain an lose one or more of the websites as a reduction in new business volumes.
awareness of the risks of continued competition.
Management analyse the success or otherwise of all media activity.
Co-insurance and reinsurance The impact on the Group would be the need Admiral mitigates risks to its reinsurance arrangements to raise additional capital to support arrangements by ensuring that it has a strongly Admiral uses proportional co-insurance underwriting.
This could be in the form of rated and diverse range of partners.
Admiral has andreinsurance across its insurance equity or debt.
Return on capital would likely enjoyed a long-term relationship with one of the businesses to reduce its own capital be lower than current levels.
worlds strongest reinsurers, Munich Re, which needs and increase return on the capital has supported Admiral since 2000.
The Group itdoes hold and to mitigate the cost and also has strong relationships with a number of risk of establishing new operations.
other reinsurers, including Amlin, Hannover Re, Mapfre Re, New Re, Swiss Re and XL Re avoiding reliance on a single partner.
There is a risk that such support will not be available in the future if the results of either the UK business or more realistically one or In the UK, coand reinsurance arrangements more of the international operations are not have been agreed up to the end of 2014, satisfactory to the coand or reinsurers.
reflecting confidence in the Admiral UK car insurance business.
Pricing on these deals was in line with existing arrangements.
The longterm co-insurance agreement with Munich Re will remain in place at 40% of the business until at least the end of 2016.
7. Credit risk The impact of the materialisation of a major The mitigation of these risks is discussed in Admiral is primarily exposed to credit risk in credit event on the Group may, dependent note5c of the financial statements.
the form of a default of reinsurer: b failure on its nature and severity, require additional of banking or investment counterparty.
The Group would also need to ensure that it had sufficient liquid assets to meet its claims and other liabilities as they fell due.
The Board also considers the following risks to be significant: t Operational risk for example, major fraud considered to be relatively low impact, and mitigated by a wide range of internal controls and the resilience of IT systems.
t IT Development risk failure to invest in appropriate technology to support the Groups future business development, mitigated by regular review of the effectiveness of the Groups IT capability by executive management and the Board.
t People risk failure to recruit, develop and retain suitable talent.
Further detail on how Admiral interacts withitsemployees is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section following.
