32 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES BG Groups approach to risk management sanction and hedging.
Analysing future cash In Australia, substantial progress was made BG Group operates in an inherently complex, flow and earnings risk informs the Groups during the year on the QCLNG project, with the dynamic and risky industry.
The Groups credit and financial risk management decisions completion of a number of important milestones businesses around the world are exposed to a and is akey input to the Groups ongoing that provide the Group with confidence that number of risks and uncertainties which could, portfolio and capitaloptimisation processes.
the project remains on budget and on schedule individually or together with others, have a to deliver first LNG in 2014.
While the estimated material adverse effect on the Groups strategy, underlying capital expenditure capex for this business, performance, results, financial or MANAGING THE GROUPS project for the period 2011-2014 rose 19% to trading condition and or reputation.
In turn, PRINCIPAL RISKS $20.4billion, the fact that 94% of this revised these may impact shareholder returns, including budget isnowcovered bycontracts and other dividends and or BG Groups share price.
The principal risks on which the Board has focused agreements provides agreater degree of certainty in 2012 are outlined below.
oncosts for the remainder of the project.
Effective risk management is central to Notwithstanding this progress in2012, a number BGGroups business and underpins delivery Project delivery and operational performance of cost, schedule and commercial risks remain ofthe Groups growth strategy.
BG Groups Successful delivery of major projects is material duetothe overall projects inherent scale and objective in seeking toidentify and manage to BG Groups future growth, and substantial complexity, involving the integration of three the Groups risks is todeliver and protect delay to, or failure to complete, these projects major projects in themselves: upstream shareholder returns overthe longer term.
constitute significant risks to the Groups development drilling, compression facilities prospects, reputation and financial position.
and water treatment plants : the export pipeline The Board is ultimately responsible for BG Groups Delivering major growth projects in Australia fromthe coal seam gas fields to the Queensland risk management and internal control systems.
andBrazil safely, to schedule and on budget, coast: and the construction and commissioning Itdetermines the nature and extent of while optimising operational performance of the LNG plant on Curtis Island.
thesignificant risks considered appropriate andoutput from existing producing base inpursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
assets, remains the critical success factor Credit Accountability for identifying and managing forthe Group.
BG Group is exposed to political and economic business risks lies with line management, risk events that may cause the non-payment withBoard and GEC oversight.
For 2013, BG Group has provided a production ofreceivables.
The Group has Enhancing BG Groups Enterprise Risk setout a number of quarterly milestones Following an agreement signed with Egypt Management Framework in 2012 thatcan be used to judge progress against General Petroleum Corporation EGPC in 2011, The aim of the Groups risk management thisrange.
Notall of the milestones are within the repayment of the Groups receivable balance strategy is to promote enterprise-wide risk BG Groups control and actual 2013 production in respect of Egyptian domestic gas sales is management through an integrated framework may be affected by other events or factors.
partly linkedto production levels, in particular that considers the impact on the Groups Further details are set outon page 21. the volume of gas allocated for export as LNG.
business ofstrategic, financial and Asat 31 December 2012, this receivable balance operationalrisks.
Production during 2012 from Egypt waslower was $1.3 billion, of which $0.6 billion was overdue.
than forecast as the Phase 7 compression Under repayment terms recently negotiated Following the appointment of a Chief Risk project was less effective than expected in withEGPC, and based upon post-investment Officer in late 2011, the Risk Management arresting reservoir decline.
The compression forecast production levels, the existing Committee was established in 2012, as a project also led to higher water production $1.3billion receivable balance is expected to sub-committee of the GEC, in order to review than expected.
BG Group has put in place a befully recovered by the end of 2015, and all and formulate managements recommendations four-point recovery plan, including: improved future receivables would be current by 2017. to the Board on risk and risk management.
predictability of field performance and reservoir However, the recoverability of the receivable data: a series of workovers to increase production balances within these timeframes, and the full One of the key components of BG Groups from existing wells: a new phase of development: realisation ofthe carrying value ofthe Groups overall Enterprise Risk Management ERM and further, near-field exploration.
Production significant Egyptian operations, depend on Framework is the Business Risk Management will decline in Egypt until the new wells in the thebusiness environment in Egypt, together Process BRMP, which is mandatory and next phase of development fortheWest Delta with the outcome of negotiations with EGPC, operates throughout the Group.
The BRMP Deep Marine field, Phase 9a, comeonstream reservoir performance, the Groups continued facilitates the identification, assessment and in 2014.
These wells will provide additional investment plans and the successful operational treatment of project delivery and operational information regarding reserves andreservoir delivery ofthose plans.
risks within assets and central functions, performance.
andenables their communication and Capital investment programmes analysiswithin the Group.
In Brazils Santos Basin, the Group continued BG Groups growth plans are based on to make good cost and schedule progress in successful execution of its programme of Other key components of the ERM Framework 2012.
Further details can be found on page 22. major capital projects which will require are the Cash Flow at Risk CFaR and Earnings at BGGroup continues to work with the operator, significant and continued capital investment Risk EaR models, which enable the Group to Petrobras, to ensure safe and successful during the period.
Related to this, the Groups quantify the probability ranges associated with delivery of the project.
The development of expected capital spend for 2013, on a cash operational performance, project delivery and theSantos Basin resources is a highly complex basis, isestimated at some $12 billion.
Analysis based upon these project andsignificant technical, operational, theexecution of the Groups ongoing funding results helps to shape BG Groups business financial and commercial challenges will strategy will remain a continued area of focus decisions, including financing, acquisitions remainas thevarious discoveries are brought forthe Board as BG Group continues to anddivestments, portfolio structure, project onstream andmatured.
progress through the heaviest investment programme in its history.
Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued 33 Funding for the Groups major capital projects will In 2012, the Groups credit rating was put on In reaction to economic and commodity market need to be underpinned by strong cash flows anegative credit outlook by Standard & Poors changes, BG Group has continued to optimise from operating assets, as well as access and Moodys Investors Service Limited and on itsportfolio.
This included scaling back onshore totraditional and alternative sources of funding negative credit watch by Fitch Ratings Limited.
drilling activity in the USA in response such as debt capital markets, export credit A downgrade in the long-term credit rating of tolowernatural gas prices which led to a agencies, development banks, project finance and the Group could adversely affect theGroups non-cash, post-tax impairment of $1.3 billion others, as required.
To this end, BG Group took ability to access finance on attractive terms.
Inaddition, appropriate measures in 2012 to strengthen its theGroup continued to focus LNG sales and balance sheet, including financing activities, Global economy marketing efforts on the more resilient markets and an ongoing portfolio rationalisation 2012 saw prolonged uncertainty in the global ofAsia and Latin America.
More than 85% programme that included thesigning of a Heads economy.
The crisis in the eurozone continued ofBG Groups LNG volumes were sold into of Agreement HoA for the partial sell down to dominate the economic landscape, with the these markets in2012 and a HoA for long-term ofQCLNG.
As at 31 December 2012, agreements result that growth and trade were negatively LNG sales wassigned with CNOOC this year.
had been signed or concluded that are expected affected.
The USA and China both felt the effects to release $8.1billion of total capital net sales of the slowdown, recording lower growth than Social and political change in North Africa proceeds, removal ofnet borrowings and capital expected in the first half of the year.
Commodity 2012 saw significant and continued social reimbursement and avoidance by the end of 2013. prices were also affected by the uncertainty, andpolitical change in some regions where Anticipated proceeds of sale upon completion withbenchmark oil prices moving within a 25% BGGroup operates, most notably in North of the fully termed transaction agreements band over the year.
The potential impacts of such social expected under the HoA forthe partial sell naturalgas price fell below $2 per million British andpolitical change are broad and, in a worse down of QCLNG represent amaterial contribution thermal units mmbtu before recovering case, could expose the Group to changes in tothis $8.1billion total capital release and therefore somewhat, reaching nearly $4 mmbtu.
Although thenature of upstream licensing arrangements.
constitute a key sensitivity for the Groups capital the prospects for stronger economic growth in The impact of any such events on the requirements and gearing.
Further details of the the USA and China now appear more positive long-term development of the Groups HoA are set out in the Financial review on page 27. and an agreement has been reached in theUSA businesses in North Africa and Egypt in that at least defers the impact of the so-called particular, and on the Groups current and While portfolio rationalisation activity has fiscal cliff, uncertainty asto how US fiscal future revenues, could be material.
As such, helped to fide-risk BG Groups ability to fund its policy will evolve in themedium term, as well political risk and crisis management and major capital investment programme, there is asthe eurozone sovereign debt crisis, means emergency response plans remain high a consequent increase in portfolio concentration thatthe period ofincreased global economic ontheagenda for the Board and theGEC.
which further emphasises the critical role of uncertainty is setto continue in2013.
assets in Australia and Brazil in shaping the Groups future prospects, performance and value.
IMPORTANT NOTES sole control, it may have more limited losses from different types of risks that Risk identification and assurance influence over ventures and how they are arenot covered by insurance.
While the Group has developed processes managed.
Management of these non-controlled foridentifying and managing risk, these joint ventures NCJVs may vary from BG Groups The Group maintains an insurance processes provide reasonable, rather than own management and operating standards, programme to provide some mitigation absolute, assurance and are designed to help controls and procedures including in relation against significant losses, which, as is manage, rather than eliminate, risk.
It is not to health, safety and environmental risks, consistent with general industry practice, possible to be certain that such processes aswell as ethical conduct and technical and includes certain limited cover for physical will be successful in managing these risks operational matters.
Nonetheless, BG Group damage, removal of debris, control of wells, effectively or at all, not least because not all endeavours to influence these ventures where re-drill, sudden and accidental pollution, ofthese risks and uncertainties are within appropriate to achieve standards, controls andemployers and third-party liabilities.
Risk management and procedures equivalent to the Groups own.
Policies purchased are subject to certain processes are therefore no guarantee that limits, deductibles and specific terms and allrisks have been identified, or will not Insurance conditions.
In addition, insurance premium materialise, or that associated losses will Some of the major risks involved in BG Group costs are subject to changes based on a notoccur.
In addition to the principal risks activities cannot, or may not, reasonably and companys loss experience, the overall and uncertainties listed here, the Group economically be insured.
Risks associated lossexperience of the insurance markets mayalso be affected adversely by other risks with the energy industry include: exposure accessed and capacity constraints.
asyet unforeseen or currently considered to personal injury and loss of life, asset Insuranceis, by its nature, contingent.
Shareholders should failures, release of hydrocarbons, environmental Assuch, any particular insurance claim consider the principal risks and uncertainties issues and natural disasters, together with mademight not result in a recovery described in this section in conjunction associated consequential losses, any of which frominsurers.
withthe Legal notice set out on page 145. may have an adverse effect on business performance.
The transfer of risks to the Joint ventures insurance market may be affected and BG Group standards apply across all wholly influenced by constraints on the availability owned businesses and joint ventures operated ofcover, market appetite andcapacity, solely by the Group.
Where the Group works pricing and the decisions of regulatory in joint ventures in which it does not exercise authorities.
BG Group may incur significant 34 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Principal risks and uncertainties continued PRESENTATION The principal risks and uncertainties set out on the following pages are in alphabetical order and are not presented in order of potential magnitude, materiality or probability of occurrence.
ASSET INTEGRITY, SAFETY, HEALTH AND SECURITY Oil and gas exploration and production activities carry significant breaches of information security may also result in the loss of commercially inherent risks.
Major accidents or incidents may occur, resulting in: sensitive data.
possible loss of life of, or injury to, members of the public, employees ofBG Group or the Groups contractors: damage to the environment: In 2012, there were three events of particular note in this risk area.
Two and damage and or loss of certain facilities, with an associated loss contractors working for BG Group died as a result of separate incidents: ordeferment ofproduction and revenues and or delay or cancellation one in the UK North Sea: and one in the USA please see page 8. ofexploration activities.
The Group may also incur costs associated Inaddition, the Elgin Franklin asset in the UK North Sea in which BGGroup withmitigation, recovery and compensation.
has an equity stake but which it does not operate suffered a significant well integrity incident leading to a major release of natural gas.
BG Group is also subject to health and safety laws in numerous Although there were no significant injuries, the resultant shutdown jurisdictions around the world.
Failure to comply with such laws could ofthe facility for essential repair and maintenance work caused production significantly impact the Groups reputation, which could have a to cease and BG Groups cash flow and profit were adversely affected subsequent effect upon the willingness of stakeholders to work with in2012 and will continue to be impacted in 2013. the Group, or affect its licence to operate in any particular territory.
Anynew laws and or regulations may result in BG Group having to The Group seeks constantly to improve controls and barriers designed introduce new operating procedures or even to curtail orcease certain toprevent incidents occurring or to mitigate their impact.
Contractor operations or implement temporary shutdowns of facilities, which safety management is recognised as an essential part of good safety could diminish its productivity and materially and adversely impact management, and the Group seeks to ensure that its worldwide theresults of operations, including the Groups profits.
contractor community understands and applies the Groups safety culture and processes totheir own operations.
In seeking to reduce BG Group is exposed to security threats.
Acts of terrorism, piracy or toaslow as reasonably practicable the risk of asset failure, it is mandatory civilunrest, which may affect the Groups employees and contractors, forevery operated asset to have Safety Cases in place that identify plants and offices, pipelines, transportation or computer systems, anddescribe the hazards associated with that asset, and to have couldseverely disrupt its business and could cause harm to people measures in place tomanage those hazards.
Attacks on the Groups computer networks and CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS, LIQUIDITY AND INTEREST RATES BG Groups ability to deliver its business and growth objectives is In the course of 2012, BG Group issued three tranches of hybrid bonds dependent on its ability to fund capital intensive development projects, totalling $2.1 billion equivalent, maturing in 2072, and continued to release atpresent most notably in Australia and Brazil.
capital through the portfolio rationalisation programme.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group had cash and cash equivalents of $4.4 billion.
The Group has made, and plans to make, significant capital investments.
These are estimated at Reference Conditions to be $12 billion on a cash In 2012, the Groups committed bank revolving credit facilities, which are basis during 2013. held withadiversified group of major banks, were increased and expiry dates extended.
These facilities totalled $5.2 billion, with $2.2 billion The Groups capital requirements depend on a broad range of factors, expiring in2016 and $3 billion in 2017, and were undrawn as at including commodity prices, currency exchange rates, revenue from 31December 2012.
These facilities are used as back-up liquidity operations, acquisitions and proceeds realised from disposals.
Some of tofundoperating and capital requirements.
these factors are wholly or partially outside the Groups control and may cause capital requirements to vary materially from planned levels.
In addition, in order to diversify and extend its potential sources Increases in BG Groups capital requirements could adversely affect offunding, the Group obtained $2.3 billion of credit facilitiesfrom theGroups business and financial performance, including gearing export credit agencies during 2012, $1.8 billion of which is subject andfunds from operations, and BG Groups ability to access finance todocumentation.
These facilities were undrawn as at 31 December 2012. onattractive terms may be constrained.
A credit or debt crisis affecting sovereign states or unions, banks, financial markets and or the economy BG Group invests surplus funds primarily in short-term, highly liquid more generally could affect the Groups ability to raise capital.
investments that are readily convertible to cash.
The Group imposes limits on the amount of borrowings that mature within any specific period.
BG Group is also exposed to liquidity risks, including risks associated with refinancing borrowings as they mature, and the risk that financial BG Groups interest rate risk management policy requires that assets cannot readily be converted to cash without loss of value.
substantially all borrowings are at a floating rate.
Exceptions to this policy require approval from the Groups Finance Committee.
In the light of BG Groups financing costs may be significantly affected by interest thecurrent low interest rate environment, theFinance Committee has ratevolatility.
approved the fixing of a substantial proportion of the Groups debt.
CLIMATE CHANGE Policies and initiatives at national and international level to address Additionally, new regulatory regimes intended to establish emissions climate change may affect business conditions and demand for various trading schemes or GHG emissions taxes could alter hydrocarbon energy sources in the medium to long-term.
Worldwide policy and production economics.
regulatory actions are driving targeted reductions in greenhouse gas GHG emissions which will in turn influence the future of the global In 2012, BG Group became subject to carbon taxes pricing in Australia energy industry.
Policy approaches that promote the use of alternative viathe Carbon Pricing Mechanism under the Clean Energy Legislative energy sources, such as renewables and nuclear power, may affect Package in addition to the existing European Emissions Trading theGroups ability to maintain its position in key markets.
Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued 35 COMMODITY PRICES BG Groups cash flows and profitability are sensitive to commodity purchase of third-party supply, the direct sale of commodities into spot prices for crude oil, natural gas, LNG and other hydrocarbons.
markets and the indexation terms in longer-term sales contracts.
The Groups portfolio also includes a range of long-term gas contracts that The Groups exposure to commodity prices varies according to a number are not directly linked to short-term changes in commodity prices.
The offactors, including the mix of production and sales.
Among the Groups long-term contracted LNG supply is predominantly priced on a commodities, oil prices are by far the dominant driver of BG Groups Henry Hub-linked basis, with value-sharing mechanisms for sales made profitability.
While industry costs tend to rise or fall with commodity prices to premium markets.
Additionally, in 2012, BG Group signed a long-term inthe long term, there isno guarantee that movements in sales prices LNG purchase agreement with Sabine Pass Liquefaction LLC, priced at and costs will align in any year.
This can put pressure on investment apremium toHenry Hub.
andproject economics which depend in part upon the degree and timing of commitments inline with particular cost structures.
BG Groups LNG position is substantially unhedged and earnings profitability of the LNG Shipping & Marketing business segment could be The Group does not, as a matter of course, hedge all commodity prices, more sensitive to movements in commodity price as a result.
The majority but may hedge certain LNG contracts and other revenue streams from of BG Groups long-term contracted LNG sales have been priced on a time to time.
In marketing its energy portfolio, BG Group may undertake predominantly oil-linked basis.
The remainder of the Groups long-term commodity hedging and trading activities, including the use of futures contracted and short-term LNG sales are priced on a Henry Hub-linked contracts financial and physical, forward-based contracts and swap orspot market basis.
The standalone value of hedges can move significantly, potentially increasing the volatility of cash required for margin calls Potential variations in commodity prices, along with other major risk andthe accounting profit recognised within a particular quarter.
factors, are considered as part of corporate funding and strategic decisions.
Projects and investments are screened against a wide rangeof external Demand for crude oil, natural gas, LNG and other hydrocarbons is sensitivities, including benchmark commodity prices.
Insights into commodity dependent upon anumber of macroeconomic factors and prices can price risks are enhanced through cash flow at risk and earnings at risk vary significantly depending upon the supply and demand balance in models, which consider the combined impact ofa variety of market each market.
BG Groups sensitivity to commodity prices arises from the andoperational risks on BG Groups business.
CREDIT BG Groups exposure to credit risk takes the form of a loss that would The Group considers its credit portfolio and appropriateness of limits, berecognised if counterparties including sovereign entities failed which are monitored centrally for individual and related concentration orwere unable to meet their payment or performance obligations.
risk, and mitigation may be considered, where appropriate, to diversify orreduce risk profile.
Management of credit risk is fundamental not only to BG Groups financial value but also to the Groups ability to deliver its core business.
The financial and credit condition of counterparties including sovereign BG Group could experience losses through its various activities with entities is considered prior to entering into commercial contracts, trading sovereigns, banks and commercial entities.
These include: commodities sales agreements, swaps, or futures and options contracts.
sales: trading and hedging: treasury derivatives and cash investments: and partnerships and arrangements with contractors and suppliers.
Contractual or other forms of protection or mitigation may be sought, including cash collateral, letters of credit, and security over asset or parent The Group is also exposed to political and economic risk events that company guarantees.
Where multiple transactions are undertaken mayexacerbate country risk and which may cause non-payment of foreign witha single counterparty or group of related counterparties, the Group currencyobligations to BG Group by governments or government-owned may enter into a netting arrangement.
To mitigate risk on physical entities, or which may otherwise impact successful project delivery and commodity trading, theGroup seeks to put in place bespoke master implementation.
In Egypt, as at 31 December 2012, the Groups receivable netting agreements orstandard arrangements appropriate to the balance with EGPC was $1.3 billion, of which $0.6 billion was overdue.
Further information can be found in the Financial statements: see note19, page 111.
DELIVERY OF PROJECTS Risks to delivering BG Groups projects safely, within scope, cost and budget, BG Group has well-established business processes and standards are many and varied.
Successful delivery of major projects is material to the designed to optimise design and execution strategies and mitigate Groups future growth and substantial delays to, or failure to complete, project risks.
Project delivery is subject to various assurance activities these projects constitute significant threats to the Groups prospects, prior to the final investment decision FID and includes: feasibility studies: reputation and financial position.
Significant risks include adverse concept assessment and selection: and scrutiny of scope definition, project orextreme weather conditions, sub-surface uncertainties, inadequate planning, contractor and contracting strategies, constructability and scope definition at sanction, insufficient availability or ineffective operability reviews, commercialisation options, and risk management deployment of resources, competing demands for contractor resources andstress-testing of project economics, including against a range andservices, the performance of BG Groups NCJV partners and or ofcommodity prices, input costs and schedule assumptions.
contractors, the uncertainties arising from the application of new technology, commercial renegotiations, conflicts of objectives and BG Group has an ongoing programme focused on delivering optimal priorities with partners or other stakeholders, environmental factors, project management, clear accountabilities and the most appropriate permitting, compliance with governmental and regulatory requirements, project management capability across the portfolio.
Performance is anda deterioration of macroeconomic conditions.
In cases where assured against Group-wide mandatory technical Standards, and capital BGGroup is not the operator in a NCJV, delivery of projects maybe and cost discipline is applied to protect value.
The Group seeks to influenced by, but is not fully under the control of, BG Group.
ensureeffective partner and stakeholder engagement and alignment across all stages of project delivery to ensure successful outcomes.
Well engineering, including the drilling, completing or operating of wells, is often uncertain and may be subject to delays, curtailment or cancellation Further detail on the specific project delivery risks facing the Group through a variety of factors including unexpected drilling conditions or isprovided on page 32. irregularities in geological formations pressure, temperature orstructure.
36 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Principal risks and uncertainties continued ENVIRONMENT BG Groups activities may adversely affect the environment through andthe possibility that unconventional operations may cause minor therelease of hydrocarbons or chemicals, noise pollution, management seismic events.
In addition, local communities may raise concerns in ofproduced water, the visual impact of gas and oil infrastructure relation to the impact on their land and their property rights.
As a result, andthe emission of pollutants.
Release of hydrocarbons may result in there is a risk that new laws or regulations in this area may be costly significant fines, liabilities or other losses.
Onshore or marine ecological tothe business, attract adverse publicity or ultimately restrict or habitats may beadversely impacted including loss of licences by prohibit the successful delivery of projects.
drilling, well operations, pipelines andother infrastructure, with a resulting effect on biodiversity.
Regulatory measures totackle loss of biodiversity, While no major events occurred in 2012, BG Groups ability to deliver together with policies intended to protect local habitats, may limit itsplans in Australia depends upon effective treatment and disposal access to gasand oil in areas deemed to be environmentally sensitive.
Similarly, in Brazil, the Groups oil spill exposure grows as more oil is produced in the Santos Basin and shuttle tanker There are a range of stakeholder concerns related to the production operations increase significantly.
ofunconventional natural gas using hydraulic fracturing techniques.
These include the potential for contamination or depletion of local BG Group is focused on developing processes to minimise the impact water sources, the long-term impact upon the natural environment ofits operations on local environments and habitats.
EXCHANGE RATES BG Group reports its financial results in US Dollars.
However, aportion BG Group denominates a portion of its after-swap borrowings in ofthe Groups operating cash flows, capital expenditure and income PoundsSterling, with the balance of after-swap borrowings denominated taxes accrue in and asset and liability positions are held in other inUS Dollars.
The Group may hedge certain expected cash flows into currencies, including the Australian Dollar primarily QCLNG project USDollars.
Currency hedging may also be undertaken in certain capital expenditure, Brazilian Real primarily Santos Basin developments cross-border transactions.
capital expenditure and Pound Sterling.
Overall, BG Group manages its cash and profit sensitivity to exchange BG Group is currently spending a large proportion of QCLNG project ratesas part of an ERM Framework.
Specifically, it is recognised that expenditure in Australian Dollars.
The US Dollar equivalent cash exchange rates and commodity prices are correlated, such that low oil expenditure will be dependent on the US Australian Dollar exchange prices tend to coincide with a lower capital expenditure when expressed rate.
A 20% appreciation in the Australian Dollar accounted in US Dollars, and vice versa.
This leads to an expected offset between forapproximately half the increase in published capex guidance the cash variations arising from oil price movements andthe cash fortheQCLNG project for the period 2011-2014 to $20.4 billion.
variations arising from exchange rate movements.
As such, ingeneral, theGroup would not expect to hedge its sensitivity of cash flows to exchange rates.
LICENCE TO OPERATE AND THE POLITICAL CONTEXT Governments, legislators and or regulators may act or intervene BG Group, therefore, also faces increased risk if it does not recognise, and orfailto act or intervene in a way that diminishes or destroys value take account of, the interests of the communities in the areas where forBGGroup.
Governments may expropriate assets or property, or itoperates, or if it operates in an unethical manner in its relationships alterfiscal or other terms governing oiland gas industry operations, for with those communities.
Across the full range of political and civil example, through the imposition of higher taxes, royalties or increased society stakeholders, BG Group needs to create, maintain and strengthen local content or domestic market requirements, especially where they itslicence to operate in every country where it does business.
Governments may also act or fail to act in a way that delays project schedules or increases costs, thus eroding value.
In constantly changing political environments, BG Groups risk exposure inthis area is continuous and evolving.
In 2012, for example, the political BG Group needs to work in partnership with governments and national and business environments in parts of North Africa remained unstable, oil companies in order to secure access to new resources and to ensure state elections in Queensland included debate around the CSG industry, the successful monetisation of existing resources.
In such cases, political US energy policy featured in the presidential election campaign, and and socio-political considerations can influence decision making.
governments and parliaments inEast Africa paid increasing attention tothe growth of their hydrocarbons industries.
Public activism, including among previously disenfranchised or disengaged populations in certain territories, has also become more prevalent and, In common with the rest of the extractive industry sector, BG Group can using new channels like social media, can create significant pressure expect tosee this area of risk increase over coming years, putting an ever ongovernments.
These developments have increased the likelihood greater premium on maintaining a strong and broad licence to operate.
ofunforeseen government, as well as legal or regulatory, changes in response to public pressure.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE BG Groups production volumes, and therefore revenues, are dependent on extreme weather events, and political or security events that disrupt the continued operational performance of its producing assets.
Those theability of staff and contractors to work.
Incases where BG Group is not producing assets may not deliver the volumes assumed in the business the sole operator ofan asset, operational performance may be influenced plan for a number of reasons, including limiting factors relating to by, but is not fully under the control of, BG Group.
Furthermore, performance reservoir and well performance, and facility, export and commercial may beimpacted adversely bysub-surface and well conditions that capacity.
Unplanned outages may also occur, for example, due to meanproduction at lower thanexpected rates.
equipment failure or human error, while planned shutdowns may take more time than expected to complete.
Other factors affecting operational In 2012, instances where risk materialised for BG Group in this area included performance include asset integrity and health, safety, security and the decline in production from WDDM in Egypt due to reservoirand well environment HSSE incidents, exposure tonatural hazards such as performance issues, and the Elgin Franklin shut-in duetowell integrity issues.
Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued 37 ORGANISATIONAL CAPACITY BG Groups performance, operating results and future growth depend BG Group takes a systematic approach to resourcing to ensure it onits ability to attract, retain, motivate and organise people with canmeet its long-term human resource needs, operating short and theappropriate level of expertise and knowledge, as BG Group pursues long-term resourcing demand models to predict and manage the people its objectives.
Competition for talented, and suitably experienced and requirements that underpin the Groups business plans.
The Group aims qualified, specialists in upstream exploration and production is intense.
toidentify the best people through succession planning and talent management, coupled with effective recruitment.
REGULATION, LEGISLATION AND LITIGATION The oil and natural gas industry is subject to legislation, regulation and BG Group faces the risk of contractual disputes and litigation in all intervention by governments worldwide in matters such as financial thecountries in which it operates.
BG Group continues tomanage reporting: the award of exploration and production interests: the litigious disputes in many different countries see note 24 E tothe imposition of specific drilling obligations: access to facilities: environmental, Financial statements on page 121. ethical conduct and health and safety controls: decommissioning: and regulated commodity trading.
The risk of corruption is heightened within some of the countries in which the oiland gas industry is active.
BG Groups future portfolio Any non-compliance with applicable laws and or regulations or new or composition may change such that corruption risk increases over time.
changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations BG Group does not tolerate corruption in any form, whether direct or could lead to regulatory investigations, litigation and or legal or indirect, andis bound by the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010, regulatory sanctions including financial penalties and the curtailment the USForeign Corruption Practices Act andlocal legislation relevant or cessation of operations, as well as reputational damage.
In addition, totheGroups assets in the territories in which they operate.
Corruption in some countries, governments are facing greater pressure on public risk ismanaged by BG Group through an anti-corruption compliance finances, leading to a risk of increased taxation.
programme across all of BGGroups business activities.
The ability toimplement the anti-corruption compliance programme is subject BG Group expects to continue to incur capital and operating toBGGroups control and influence over its business activities, which expenditure to comply with increasingly complex laws and regulations isless in the Groups non-operated and non-controlled joint ventures.
worldwide, particularly in relation to environmental protection and The anti-corruption compliance programme includes training, policies and health and safety.
BG Groups business activities areconducted in many procedures, risk management, due diligence, contract management, and different countries and are therefore subject toabroad range of such independent monitoring.
In addition, BG Groups Speak Up Policy sets legislation and regulations.
The cost and risksof compliance can outthewhistleblowing and investigations framework whichisthe basis therefore be significant.
forhow allegations of breaches of laws, regulations and the Groups Policies and Business Principles that are reported to BG Group are handled.
If BG Group employees, or anyone working on its behalf, violate laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Group operates including BG Group also has a competition law anti-trust compliance programme laws and regulations with extraterritorial application, the Group may which seeks to ensure that anti-competitive conduct is avoided and face reputational damage and be subject to penalties, including fines anysuspected anti-competitive conduct is promptly identified orloss of operating licences.
andinvestigated, with appropriate action taken.
RESOURCES DISCOVERY, ESTIMATION AND DEVELOPMENT There may be insufficient addition of new resources and reserves to Furthermore, changes togas and oil prices in fields subject to production enable future economically viable production and to fuel production sharing contracts mayresult in revised entitlements.
Competition for exploration and development rights, and access to gas and oil resources, is intense.
Where such rights are In addition, actual reservoir performance may be lower than estimated.
awarded, there is no guarantee that hydrocarbons in commercially Changes in tax rules and other government regulations mayalso result viablequantities will be discovered.
in reserves or resources becoming uneconomic.
Maturation of any discovered resources also may not optimise value.
BG Group also faces risks from unfavourable unitisation decisions The quantity and quality of geological, technical and economic data may wherever the Group holds an interest that may extend outside the ultimately prove tobe insufficient or inaccurate for estimating resources boundaries of concession or licensing areas.
Unitisation is technically and reserves, and the ability to interpret that data appropriately may be and commercially complex and involves not only a negotiation based limited.
Insufficient pre-sanction field appraisal may lead to sub-optimal oninterpretation of data, but also an in-depth knowledge of relevant project sanction and or field development plans.
Unitisation decisions could also work in theGroups favour.
Exploration and development activity may also be constrained by unexpected drilling conditions, poor availability of suitable rigs and In 2012, risk associated with changes in oil and gas prices materialised restrictions on the availability of suitable human or technical resources.
inthe US asset, where a non-cash post-tax impairment charge of$1.3 billion was recorded in the second quarter as a result of the weaker outlook Gas and oil reserves and resources cannot be measured precisely, forUS natural gas prices.
In accordance with applicable SEC definitions, andthe estimation process involves subjective judgements.
In joint theprevailing low Henry Hub gas prices during2012 also led to a ventures, estimates may not align with the estimates of total reserves reduction of bookable reserves in the Groups US assets.
and resources of partners including operators.
Estimates of reserves and resources may be subject to downward revision.
A decline in the price of oil or gas may make reserves and or resources, previously deemed to be recoverable, uneconomic to develop.
