Risk management Balancing risk and reward During 2012 we focused on driving benets from the implementation of our risk management framework by using it to inform key business judgements.
This|has continued to raise the level of risk awareness and increase confidence in the use|of risk modelling tools within the internal model.
James Illingworth Chief Risk Officer The information provided by the ORSA reports 2012 Highlights ensures that risk and capital implications are r Embedding use of Dynamic Financial Analysis DFA model in|core recognised in the decision making process and that appropriate control plans are developed to business processes support the successful delivery of business r Independent validation of DFA model to support Solvency II strategies and priorities.
Practical risk issues that have been addressed through this process regulatory programme include responding to the Eurozone crisis with r Emerging risk process further developed and tested, including evaluation appropriate contingency plans, tracking the implementation of the system replacement of Eurozone crisis response planning programme for Amlin Europe and putting in r ERM rating upgraded to Strong by Standard and Poors place enhanced training and procedures to address the Bribery Act, as well as taking the opportunity to strengthen existing Competition Our risk management policy clearly articulates Proactively managing our risk exposures Law training and awareness.
the importance given to creating a risk aware Amlin has now been producing Own Risk & culture across the Group to drive active Solvency Assessment ORSA reports for two Our approach to risk management seeks for management of risks.
Our Operating Model continuous improvement.
Important to this years through consistent risk assessment and recognises that, as an insurer, we actively seek reporting processes across underwriting divisions objective are a series of process effectiveness and accept risk, but we manage risks within reviews carried out by the Corporate Centre Risk and other corporate functions.
The Board, acceptable bounds and provide clarity operating company boards and Risk Committees function to confirm our internal controls and risk surrounding risk to our stakeholders.
Risk framework remain sound and to identify areas for receive ORSA reports quarterly.
During 2012, categories are clearly identified, risk management further enhancement.
This is supported by our these processes were also established for Amlin standards are documented and risk tolerances risk management training programme across all Insurance UK, an insurance carrier writing are set for each category.
Risk taken will continue offices.
Sharing and learning from internal specialist retail business as part of Amlin UK.
to be regularly assessed against those tolerances.
operational risk events through the reporting ORSA reports are produced for each insurance framework previously established remains a During 2012, Amlin strengthened its Corporate entity and for the Group as a whole.
They address powerful means of driving risk awareness Centre Risk function by increasing its role as a forward looking solvency and profit and loss amongst staff and encourages disclosure and fully independent second line of defence forecasts, detail the states of all major risks resolution of issues.
responsible for oversight across all parts of the against tolerances and the effectiveness of Group.
The function will increase its focus on the The implementation of Amlin Europes risk controls.
The reports include output from stress validation of Amlins DFA model, as well as management framework continued, with Amlin testing, validation and event or near miss identifying and understanding unacceptable Europes Risk Governance & Monitoring team reporting.
The ORSA makes the link with business levels of risk and prompting management to planning and ensures that the DFA model is used significantly strengthened in 2012 and a specific respond appropriately.
risk culture training programme implemented.
Selected Realistic Disaster Scenarios million at 1 January 2013 Exposed RDS Aggregate Gross Loss Net Loss Tolerance North-East US Windstorm 4,796 622 268 350 Florida Windstorm Tampa 2,252 606 262 350 California Earthquake LA 2,012 448 161 350 European Windstorm 115,783 691 182 350 Japan Earthquake 728 396 182 350 New Zealand Earthquake 706 290 194 350 24 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Our progress in embedding Enterprise Risk in the US and Europe.
Our values drive us to retain a Management ERM was recognised by Standard arrangements remain in place with some beneficial sustainable business model, founded on a & Poors with Amlins ERM rating upgraded to measured approach in our acceptance and changes to attachment levels and pricing.
This reflects the management of risk, to secure the long-term In 2012, we continued to develop the use viability of the business.
We also use risk-adjusted commitment made across the business to of our DFA model to predict expected business making risk management an integral part of capital metrics to measure and track the performance and profitability, as well as inform performance of the business.
key business judgements such as capital Using Amlins internal model to support Solvency II regulatory preparedness management and risk tolerance setting.
The business decision making modelling captures the distinct risk profile of the During 2012, Amlin was one of the first UK Group, including the potential aggregation of insurers to submit materials in support of our Amlin aims to deliver an attractive cross-cycle catastrophe risk, class diversification, credit risk readiness for Solvency II regulation for Group and return on capital through the maintenance of a exposures and potential for operational failures.
This places Amlin in a good diversified portfolio of business combined with position to meet the challenges of operating excellent capital management.
Critical to this aim The model continues to be developed in under the new Solvency II regulatory environment is the management of catastrophe risk exposures C|PWODGT QH CTGCU VQ UWRRQTV DWUKPGUU once it is implemented.
In addition, Amlin AG and managing a diversified portfolio.
FGEKUKQP|OCMKPI 6JGUG KPENWFG EJCNNGPIKPI received positive feedback from FINMA with business plans through the development of The Board agrees both deterministic and respect to its Swiss Solvency Test submissions independently generated best estimate loss stochastic catastrophe risk tolerances for the being accepted for capital setting purposes.
ratios, as well as simulating a distribution of Group as a whole and these are then allocated outcomes to analyse the effectiveness and value amongst Amlins divisions.
These catastrophe risk for money of outwards reinsurance purchases.
tolerances vary over the cycle, depending on the mean expected profitability of the Group and on We have also introduced quarterly analysis the size of Amlins balance sheet.
Catastrophe of Amlins market share exposure to potential risk tolerances are defined with respect to industry loss scenarios to assist in identifying and increasing percentages of net tangible assets that justifying differing levels of exposure.
This was can be put at risk at reducing levels of probability used to re-assess and reduce Amlins relative taking account of the projected profit of the exposure to New Zealand earthquake risk business.
These are approved each year by the HQNNQYKPI VJG GCTVJSWCMGU QH CPF| Board and allocated by the Corporate Centre Risk Validation of the model in preparation for the function with Group Underwriting to individual Solvency II regulatory environment has been a legal entities.
The businesses most exposed to major area of focus.
Amlin has used catastrophe risk are those with exposures to US independent external challenge to systemically windstorm and earthquake, Japanese earthquake review and document the methodology and and European windstorm, written through operational controls supporting the use of the property reinsurance contracts, direct property model.
This work has provided key stakeholders and some marine classes such as yacht and cargo.
The reinsurance purchased reflects these with a clear understanding of the strengths and limitations of our modelling.
Repeated review tolerances and takes account of the cost of any and challenge of the model outcomes, through modelled recovery from such arrangements on the profitability of the business.
management use, continues to hone techniques and assumptions and to improve the credibility For 2012, our retrocessional reinsurance and accuracy of modelling.
arrangements were enhanced through the purchase of additional coverage for the Amlin Actuarial analysis is an important ingredient in our overall risk framework used to inform Bermuda portfolio, mirroring that bought by the Syndicate, and also the sponsorship of a underwriters and management, on whose catastrophe bond which provides $150m of judgement and experience we ultimately rely and who remain accountable for exercising prudent protection to the Group for large catastrophe losses Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 25 Risk management continued Risk management framework Risk Policy & Risk Strategy Risk Standards Risk Appetite & Tolerances Governance Accountability & Ownership Communication Review Risk Report Identify Assessment Process Respond Assess Infrastructure Challenge Risk governance structure Amlin plc PLC Risk & Solvency Committee Group Executive Risk Committee Entity Board Entity Board Risk Co-ordination Group Entity Audit Committee Entity Audit Committee Group Risk function aggregation Entity Risk Committee Entity Risk Committee Group Risk function review Group functions risk report Entity Management Entity Management 26 Framework Foundations
