Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 135 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 countries in which we are conducting business through entities Risks relating to our business we do not control.
Some of our international insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging You should carefully review the following risk factors markets where these risks are heightened.
Our overall success as together with other information contained in this a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in Annual Report before making an investment decision different economic, social, regulatory and political conditions.
relating to our ordinary shares or ADSs.
Our business, Credit risks relating to Avivas business financial position, results of our operations and cash Market developments and government actions regarding flow could be materially affected by any of these risks, the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, particularly in Greece, the trading price of our ordinary shares or ADSs could Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, could have a material decline due to any of these risks and investors may adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
lose part or all of their investment.
The continued uncertainty over the outcome of various EU and Ongoing difficult conditions in the global financial markets and international financial support programs and the possibility that the economy generally may adversely affect our business and other EU member states may experience similar financial pressures results of operations, and these conditions may continue.
could further disrupt global markets.
In particular, this crisis has Our results of operations are materially affected by uncertainty in disrupted and could further disrupt equity and fixed income the worldwide financial markets and macro-economic conditions markets and result in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of generally.
A wide variety of factors, including concerns over EU members.
slowing growth, high sovereign debt within, and to a lesser The issues arising out of the current sovereign debt crisis may degree outside, the Eurozone, the stability and solvency of transcend Europe, cause investors to lose confidence in the safety financial institutions, longer-term low interest rates in developed and soundness of European financial institutions and the stability markets, inflationary threats as well as geopolitical issues in the of European member economies, and likewise affect UK and USMiddle East and North Africa, have contributed to increased based financial institutions, the stability of the global financial volatility in the financial markets and diminished expectations for markets and any economic recovery.
The Group holds the global economy going forward.
Global fixed income markets investments in UK and non-UK securities.
See Performance continue to experience periods of both volatility and limited Review Analysis of Investments for more information.
market liquidity, which have affected a broad range of asset If an EU member state were to default on its obligations classes and sectors.
or seek to leave the Eurozone, or if the Eurozone were broken Factors relating to general economic conditions, such as up entirely, the impact on the financial and currency markets consumer spending, business investment, government spending, would be significant and could impact materially all financial the volatility and strength of both debt and equity markets, and institutions, including the Group.
Such events could adversely inflation, all affect the profitability of our business.
In a sustained affect our business and results of operations, financial condition economic phase of low growth and high public debt, and liquidity.
characterised by higher unemployment, lower household income, Credit spread volatility may adversely affect the net unrealised lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower value of the investment portfolio and our results of operations.
consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price products could be adversely affected.
In addition, we may variability associated with changes in credit spreads in our experience an elevated incidence of claims or surrenders of investment portfolio, which is largely held to maturity.
Any potential material adverse affect will also be spread moves may be caused by changes in the perception of the dependent upon customer behaviour and confidence.
credit worthiness of the issuer, or from market factors such as the As a global business, we are exposed to various local political, markets risk appetite and liquidity.
A widening of credit spreads regulatory and economic conditions, business risks and will generally reduce the value of fixed income securities we hold.
challenges which may affect the demand for our products and Conversely, credit spread tightening will generally increase the services, the value of our investment portfolios and the credit value of fixed income securities we hold.
It can be difficult to quality of local counterparties.
value certain of our securities if trading becomes less liquid.
We offer our products and services in Europe including the UK, Accordingly, valuations of investments may include assumptions North America and the Asia Pacific region through wholly owned or estimates that may have significant period to period changes and majority-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, companies in that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated which we hold non-controlling equity stakes, agents and results of operations or financial condition.
Downturns in the net independent contractors.
Our international operations expose us unrealised value of our investment portfolio may also have a to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks material adverse effect on our regulatory capital surplus based and challenges which may affect the demand for our products on the EU Insurance Groups Directive.
Although our financial and services, the value of our investment portfolio, the required statements reflect the market value of assets, our priority remains levels of capital and surplus, and the credit quality of local the management of assets and liabilities over the longer term.
These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, Losses due to defaults by counterparties, including potential discriminatory regulation, credit risks of our counterparties, lack of sovereign debt defaults or restructurings, could adversely affect the value of our investments and reduce our profitability local business experience in certain markets, risks associated with and shareholders equity.
exposure to insurance industry insolvencies through policyholder We choose to take and manage credit risk through our guarantee funds or similar mechanisms set up in markets in which investment assets partly to increase returns to policy holders we are present and, in certain cases, risks associated with the whose policies the assets back, and partly to optimise the return potential incompatibility with foreign partners, especially in for shareholders.
136 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 We have a significant exposure to third parties that owe us limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum money, securities or other assets who may not perform under rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in their payment obligations.
These parties include private sector and asset yields.
As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially government or government-backed issuers whose debt securities become negative.
Our expectation for future spreads is an we hold in our investment portfolios including mortgage-backed, important component in the amortisation of policy acquisition asset-backed, government bonds and other types of securities, costs and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate borrowers under residential and commercial mortgages and other amortisation, thereby reducing net income in the affected loans, re-insurers to which we have ceded insurance risks, reporting period.
In addition, during periods of declining interest customers, trading counterparties, and counterparties under swap rates, the guarantees within existing life insurance and annuity and other derivative contracts.
We also execute transactions with products may be more attractive to consumers, resulting in other counterparties in the financial services industry, including increased premium payments on products with flexible premium brokers and dealers, commercial and investment banks, hedge features, and a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining funds and other investment funds, insurance groups and in force from year to year, during a period when our new institutions.
Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk investments carry lower returns.
Accordingly, during periods of in the event of default of our counterparty.
declining interest rates, our profitability may suffer as the result In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit of a decrease in the spread between interest rates credited to risk may be increased when the collateral held by us cannot be policyholders and returns on our investment portfolio.
realised or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect amount of the loan or other value due.
Losses or impairments to our profitability.
Surrenders of life insurance policies and fixed the carrying value of these assets could materially and adversely annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek higher affect our financial condition and results of operations.
returns and higher guaranteed minimum returns.
Obtaining cash We use reinsurance and hedging programs to hedge various to satisfy these surrenders may require us to liquidate fixed risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained maturity investments at a time when market prices for those in many of our long-term insurance and fund management assets are depressed which may result in realised investment products.
These programs cannot eliminate all of the risks and no losses.
Regardless of whether we realise an investment loss, these assurance can be given as to the extent to which such programs cash payments would result in a decrease in total invested assets, will be effective in reducing such risks.
Our obligations under our and may decrease our net income.
Premature withdrawals may fund management and insurance products are not changed by also cause us to accelerate amortisation of policy acquisition costs, our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even which would also reduce our net income.
if our derivative counterparties do not pay us.
Defaults by such Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with financial condition and results of operations.
diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration We are also susceptible to an adverse financial outcome approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability from a change in third-party credit standing.
As well as having cash flow profile.
However, it may not be possible to hold assets a potential impact on spreads, rating movements can trigger that will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to solvency and accounting impacts.
policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with less For additional information about our investments, see developed bond markets and in certain markets where regulated Performance review Analysis of investments.
surrender value or maturity values are set with reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time of policy issue.
Market risks relating to Avivas business This is due to the duration and uncertainty of the liability cash Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to surrender flows and the lack of sufficient assets of suitable duration.
This their contracts, reduce the value of our investment portfolio results in a residual asset liability mismatch risk that can be and impact our asset and liability matching, which could managed but not eliminated.
In addition, our estimate of the adversely affect our results of operation and financial liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate for other reasons, condition.
such as varying mortality or general insurance claims, and we may Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in price and cash flow variability of assets and liabilities associated order to cover the liability.
Such a loss could have a material with changes in interest rates.
adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition.
Some of our products, principally traditional participating See Financial statements IFRS Note 56 Risk management.
products, universal life insurance and annuities, including fixed and equity indexed annuities, expose us to the risk that changes Changes in short or long term inflation may cause in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference policyholders to surrender their contracts, increase the size of between the amounts that we are required to pay under the our claims payments and expenses and reduce the value of our contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments, which could adversely affect our results of investments intended to support obligations under the contracts.
Our spread is a key component of our net income.
We are subject to inflation risk through our holdings of fixed As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be interest and other investments and as a result of the potential for forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured the cost of claims and expenses to rise faster than anticipated in or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our our pricing or reserving.
Changes in inflation could also affect the investment return.
Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem value perceived to be offered by our policies and so adversely the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and affect persistency levels.
mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which increases this risk.
Lowering interest crediting or policyholder bonus rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products.
However, our ability to lower these rates could be Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 137 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Falls in equity or property prices could have an adverse impact translation of the results into sterling.
Although we take certain on our investment portfolio and impact our results of actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate operations and shareholders equity.
fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results We are subject to equity and property price risk due to holdings due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively of equities and investment properties in a variety of locations offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate worldwide.
Downturns in equity markets will depress equity fluctuation.
Any adverse foreign currency exchange fluctuation prices and have a negative impact on our capital position in that may also have a material adverse effect on our regulatory capital unrealised losses in our net investment portfolio will increase, surplus based on the EU Insurance Groups Directive.
and our defined benefit pension scheme surplus deficit will For a discussion of the impact of changes in foreign exchange reduce increase as the market value of scheme assets invested in rates on our results of operations, see Financial statements IFRS equities decreases.
Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our unit-linked, Market fluctuations may cause the value of options and participating and fund management business.
The unit-linked and guarantees embedded in some of our life insurance products fund management business depends on fees related primarily to to exceed the value of the assets backing their reserves, which the value of assets under management and would therefore be could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.
reduced by declines in equity and property markets.
Profits could also be reduced as a result of current investors withdrawing funds As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group or reducing their rates of ongoing investment with our fund companies have given guarantees and options, including interest management companies, or switching to lower risk funds rate and investment return guarantees, in respect of certain longgenerating lower income, or as a result of our fund management term insurance and fund management products.
In providing companies failing to attract funds from new investors.
Similarly, these guarantees and options, our capital position is sensitive to bonuses credited to participating policyholders will reduce, fluctuations in financial variables, including foreign currency following declines in equity and property markets and this will exchange rates, interest rates, property values and equity prices.
generally also lead to reductions in transfers to shareholders.
Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on Downturns in equity markets may also have a material adverse guaranteed annuity options GAOs, are sensitive to interest rates effect on our regulatory capital surplus as measured under the EU falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such as Insurance Groups Directive.
We provide certain guarantees within maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to minimum some of our products that protect policyholders against significant rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the investment downturns in the equity markets.
In volatile or declining equity return below the level assumed when the guarantee was made.
market conditions, we may need to increase liabilities for future Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity policy benefits and policyholder account balances, negatively markets, increased equity or interest rate volatility or reduced affecting net income.
For a discussion of guarantees we have interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the given for our insurance and investment products, see Financial future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities statements IFRS Note 41 Financial guarantees and options.
associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net In our US business in particular, market downturns and income.
We use reinsurance in combination with derivative volatility may discourage purchases of accumulation products, instruments to mitigate some of the liability exposure and the such as equity-indexed annuities and equity-indexed life volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and while insurance, that have returns linked to the performance of the we believe that these and other actions mitigate the risks related equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products.
the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or A sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and unwilling to pay, although this may be partially mitigated by the earnings in these types of products.
posting of collateral by our counterparties.
For property investment, we are subject to counterparty, We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these valuation and liquidity risks.
These investments may be adversely guaranteed minimum benefits increases, resulting in a reduction affected by weakness in property markets and increased to net income.
In addition, we are subject to the risk that mortgage delinquencies.
We are also subject to property risk unanticipated policyholder behaviour or mortality, combined with indirectly in our investments in residential mortgage-backed adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the securities RMBS and commercial mortgage-backed securities scope of the risk management techniques employed.
There is the risk that the underlying collateral may fall individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on in value causing the investment in securities to fall in value.
The our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.
markets for these property investments and instruments can become illiquid, and issues relating to counterparty credit ratings The determination of the amount of allowances and and other factors may increase pricing and valuation impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective.
If our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognise an impairment of our goodwill or intangibles with Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect indefinite and finite useful lives, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.
our results of operations or financial condition.
We operate internationally and are exposed to foreign currency The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates of vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation various currencies.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, over and assessment of known risks associated with the respective half of our premium income arises in currencies other than asset class.
Such evaluations and assessments are revised as sterling, and our net assets are denominated in a variety of conditions change and new information becomes available and currencies, of which the largest are the euro, sterling and US additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances dollar.
In managing our foreign currency exposures, we do not provided for in the future.
If the carrying value of an investment hedge revenues as these are substantially retained locally to is greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is support the growth of the business and meet local regulatory and reduced through a charge to the income statement in the period market requirements.
Nevertheless, the effect of exchange rate of impairment.
There can be no assurance that management has fluctuations on local operating results could lead to significant fluctuations in our consolidated financial statements upon 138 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances maturing debt, satisfy statutory capital requirements and generate reflected in our financial statements.
fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity needs.
Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shortersubsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net term securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of assets at the date of acquisition.
We test goodwill and intangible capital which could decrease our profitability and reduce our assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually for impairment financial flexibility.
Our results of operations, financial condition or when circumstances or events indicate there may be and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
We test intangibles with finite lives As a holding company, we are dependent on our operating when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend over this value.
For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles payments.
have been allocated to cash-generating units by geographical As a holding company, Aviva plc has no substantial operations of reporting unit and business segment.
Its principal sources of funding are dividends from The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds and any amounts that may performance of the business.
Goodwill, negative unallocated be raised through the issuance of debt and commercial paper.
divisible surplus and indefinite life intangibles are written down Our insurance and fund management operations are generally for impairment where the recoverable amount is insufficient to conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Certain support its carrying value.
Such write downs could have a material subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions that may limit the adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could limit our ability to pay dividends to shareholders.
The inability of our Liquidity risks relating to Avivas business Adverse capital and credit market conditions may affect subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable our ability to meet liquidity needs and to access capital which us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could adversely affect our results of operations or financial could have a material adverse effect on our business.
Insurance risks relating to Avivas business At a Group level, we need our subsidiaries to remit dividends to The cyclical nature of the insurance industry may cause the Group to meet operating expenses, taxes, interest on our fluctuations in our results.
debt, dividends on our capital stock and repay maturing debt.
Historically, the insurance industry has been cyclical and operating Dividends from subsidiaries can become constrained by adverse results of insurers have fluctuated because of volatile and business experience, regulatory actions etc which could have a sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are material adverse effect on our business.
At an operational level beyond the direct control of any insurer.
Although we have a we also need liquidity to meet our liabilities.
Without sufficient geographically diverse group of businesses providing a wide range liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations and our of products, we expect to experience the effects of this cyclical business would suffer.
The principal sources of our liquidity are nature, including changes in sales and premium levels.
The insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds and unpredictability and competitive nature of the general insurance cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting business has contributed historically to significant quarter-tomainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash.
quarter and year-to-year fluctuations in underwriting results and Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of net earnings.
short and long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, medium and long-term debt, The use of inaccurate assumptions in pricing and reserving for junior subordinated debt, securities, capital securities and insurance business may have an adverse effect on our business stockholders equity.
We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity such as The Groups life insurance companies are required to make a privately placed fixed-maturity securities, and unlisted equities, number of assumptions in relation to the business written, and other investments where the inputs used for their valuation including the mortality and morbidity rates of our customers, the are not directly observable in the market.
These asset classes development of interest rates, lapse rates the rates at which represented approximately 5.3.
% of the total assets held at fair customers terminate existing policies prior to their maturity dates value as of 31 December 2012 6.3% excluding assets held for and future levels of expenses.
These assumptions may turn out to sale.
As has been the case across the industry, even some of our be incorrect.
higher-quality assets have been more illiquid as a result of the When establishing their liabilities, our life insurance companies recent challenging market conditions.
allow for changes in the assumptions made, monitor their The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of experience against the actuarial assumptions used and assess investments, our investments in the asset classes described in the the information gathered to refine their long-term assumptions, paragraph above and, at times, our higher-quality, generally liquid together with taking actual claims experience into account.
asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market However, it is not possible to determine precisely the total price for each asset.
If we were forced to sell certain of our assets amounts that will ultimately be paid under the policies written in the current market, there can be no certainty that we would be by the business as amounts may vary from estimates.
Changes able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them in assumptions may also lead to changes in the level of capital and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices.
required to be maintained, meaning that we may need to We may need to seek additional financing in the event increase the amount of our reserves.
This could have a material internal resources are not sufficient to meet our needs.
The adverse impact on the Groups value, the results of our operations availability of additional financing would depend on a variety and financial condition.
of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of Additionally, our management of the general insurance credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services business requires the general insurance companies to make a industry and the markets perception of our financial condition.
number of assumptions in relation to the business written.
These Disruptions and uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit assumptions include the costs of writing the business and settling markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity claims, and the frequency and severity of claims.
The assumptions and credit capacity for certain issuers and may limit our access to may turn out to be incorrect, thereby adversely impacting our capital required to operate and grow our business.
Additionally, man-made disasters, including accidents and conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, intentional events, are particularly difficult to predict with a high Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 139 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 degree of accuracy.
These would also have an adverse impact on overstated in the period in which the actual experience is known our profit due to higher than expected claims.
and would result in a charge to net income.
Such adjustments Furthermore, outstanding claims provisions for the general could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or insurance business are based on the best-estimate of the cost of financial condition.
future claim payments, plus an explicit allowance for risk and Catastrophic events, which are often unpredictable by nature, uncertainty.
together with related claims handling costs.
could result in material losses and abruptly and significantly Any provisions for re-opened claims are also included.
A range interrupt our business activities.
of methods, including stochastic projections, may be used to Our business is exposed to volatile natural and man-made determine these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a disasters such as pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the earthquakes, terrorism, riots, fires and explosions.
Over the past expected settlement amount and settlement pattern of claims.
several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions If the assumptions underlying the reserving basis were to have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural prove incorrect, we might have to increase the amount of the disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional general insurance provisions, which would adversely impact our uncertainty as to future trends and exposure.
financial condition or results of operations.
Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that We have a significant exposure to annuity business and a causes a large number of deaths.
The effectiveness of external significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
Longevity statistics are monitored in detail and compared with parties, including governmental and non-governmental organisations, in combating the spread and severity of such a emerging industry trends.
The results are used to inform both the reserving and pricing of annuities within the Group.
It is likely that pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us.
uncertainty will remain in the development of future longevity that cannot be mitigated.
The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected A strengthening in the longevity assumption, either to reflect changes in the underlying life expectancy of the population or of by the event and the severity of the event.
Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas: however, pandemics, our particular portfolio used to calculate our long-term business liabilities, would result in an increase in these reserves and reduce hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that our shareholders equity.
See Financial statements IFRS Note 56 Risk management.
Catastrophic events could also harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the If our business does not perform well or if actual experience probability of default on reinsurance recoveries and could also versus estimates used in valuing and amortising Deferred reduce our ability to write new business.
Furthermore, pandemics, Acquisition Costs DAC and Acquired value of in-force business natural disasters, terrorism and fires could disrupt our operations AVIF vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the and result in significant loss of property, key personnel and amortisation and or impair the DAC and AVIF which could information about our clients and our business if our business adversely affect our results of operations or financial continuity plans fail to cope with the scale or nature of the condition.
Such events could adversely affect our business, We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and results or operations, corporate reputation and financial condition renewal business.
Those costs that vary with and are driven by for a substantial period of time.
the production of new and renewal business are deferred and Furthermore, market conditions beyond our control determine referred to as DAC.
The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we future profitability of the related business.
The amount of future purchase.
Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our morbidity, persistency and expenses to administer the business.
ability to write future business.
Of these factors, investment margins and general insurance underwriting profit are most likely to impact the rate of Operational risks relating to Avivas business amortisation of such costs.
The aforementioned factors enter All of our businesses are subject to operational risks, including into managements estimates of gross profits or margins, which the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or generally are used to amortise such costs.
If the estimates of gross failed internal and external processes, systems and human profits or margins were overstated, then the amortisation of such error or from external events.
costs would be accelerated in the period the actual amount is Our business is dependent on processing a large number of known and would result in a charge to income.
Significant or complex transactions across numerous and diverse products.
sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of Furthermore, the long-term nature of the majority of our amortisation of the DAC related to unit-linked business, resulting business means that accurate records have to be maintained in a charge to income.
Such adjustments could have a material for significant periods.
adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.
We also outsource several operations, including certain AVIF reflects the estimated present value of future profits that servicing and IT functions and are therefore partially reliant will emerge over the remaining life of certain in-force contracts upon the operational processing performance of our in a life insurance company, acquired either directly or through outsourcing partners.
the purchase of a subsidiary, and represents the portion of the Our systems and processes on which we are dependent to purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive serve our customers are designed to appropriately identify and future cash flows from the insurance and investment contracts address the operational risks associated with our activities.
in-force at the acquisition date.
AVIF is based on actuarially However, they may nonetheless fail due to IT malfunctions, determined projections.
Actual experience may vary from the human error, intentional disruption or hacking of IT systems by projections.
Revisions to estimates result in changes to the third parties, business interruptions, non-performance by third amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions parties or other external events.
This could disrupt business are made and could result in impairment and a charge to income.
operations resulting in material reputational damage and the loss Where AVIF is amortised, an acceleration of the amortisation of of customers, and have a consequent material adverse effect on AVIF would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were our results of operations and financial condition.
Although we 140 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 have taken steps to upgrade systems and processes to reduce a funding deficit or surplus arises, the position will be discussed these operational risks, we cannot anticipate the details or timing with the scheme trustees to agree appropriate actions.
This may of all possible operational and systems failures which may include a plan to fund the deficit over a period of years.
Any adversely impact our business.
surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme will affect our shareholders equity, although the IFRS position may diverge We operate in several markets through arrangements with from the scheme funding position.
These arrangements involve certain risks that we The UK pension schemes are subject to statutory requirements do not face with our subsidiaries.
with regards to funding and other matters relating to the Our ability to exercise management control over our partnership administration of the schemes.
Compliance with these operations, our joint ventures and our investment in them requirements is subject to regular review.
A determination that depends on the terms of the legal agreements.
In particular, the we have failed to comply with applicable regulations could have relationships depend on the allocation of control among, and a negative impact on our results of operations or our relationship continued co-operation between, the participants.
with current and potential contributors and employees and We may also face financial or other exposure in the event adverse publicity.
that any of our partners fail to meet their obligations under the agreement or encounter financial difficulty.
For example, a Our process for valuing investments may include significant proportion of our product distribution, such as methodologies, estimations and assumptions which bancassurance, is carried out through arrangements with third require judgement and could result in changes to investment valuations.
parties not controlled by us and is dependent upon the continuation of these relationships.
A temporary or permanent We value our available for sale AFS and fair value FV securities using designated methodologies, estimation and assumptions.
disruption to these distribution arrangements could affect our financial condition.
Some of these arrangements require our These securities, which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement of financial position, represent the third-party partners to participate in and provide capital to our joint venture, associate and subsidiary undertakings.
Our partners majority of invested assets.
We have categorised the measurement basis for assets carried at fair value into a fair value may change their strategic priorities or encounter financial difficulties preventing them from providing the necessary capital hierarchy in accordance with the valuation inputs and consistent with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The fair value to promote future growth.
In addition, we outsource certain customer service, hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : the middle technology and legacy policy administration functions to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future.
If we do not priority to fair values other than quoted prices based on observable market information Level 2 : and the lowest priority to effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, thirdparty providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience unobservable inputs that reflect the assumptions that we consider market participants would normally use Level 3.
The majority of technological or other problems with a transition to or between such providers, we may not realise the full extent of productivity our financial assets are valued based on quoted market information Level 1 or observable market data Level 2.
The improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of business.
majority of investment property and commercial mortgages are classified as Level 2.
At 31 December 2012, 5.1% of total The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel could financial investments, loans and investment properties at fair have a material adverse effect on our results and or financial value were classified as Level 3, amounting to 13,434 million condition.
5.8% and 12,918 million excluding assets held for sale.
Where As a global financial services organisation, we rely to an extent estimates were used for inputs to Level 3 fair values, these were on the quality of local management in the countries in which based on a combination of independent third-party evidence and we operate.
The success of our operations is dependent, among internally developed models, intended to be calibrated to market other things, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified observable data where possible.
Competition for such key employees is An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value intense.
Our ability to attract and retain key employees is hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market valuation.
conditions and compensation packages offered by companies See IFRS critical accounting policies Investments.
competing for the same talent.
Any change to investment valuations may affect our results of operations and reported financial condition.
There are inherent funding risks associated with our participation in defined benefit staff pension schemes.
Systems errors or regulatory changes may affect the We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution staff calculation of unit prices or deduction of charges for our unitpension schemes.
The defined benefit section of the UK staff linked products which may require us to compensate pension scheme was closed to new members from 1 April 2011, customers retrospectively.
with entry into the defined contribution sections being offered A significant proportion of our product sales are unit-linked to the staff members affected.
Closure of the defined benefit contracts, where product benefits are linked to the prices of scheme has removed the volatility associated with adding future underlying unit funds.
While comprehensive controls are in place, accrual for active members.
there is a risk of error in the calculation of the prices of these There are inherent funding risks associated with the defined funds due to human error in data entry, IT-related issues or other benefit schemes.
Events could result in a material reduction in the causes.
Additionally, it is possible that policy charges which are funding position of such schemes and, in some cases, may result deducted from these contracts are taken incorrectly, or the in a deficit between the pension schemes assets and liabilities.
methodology is subsequently challenged by policyholders or The factors that affect the schemes position include: poor regulators and changed retrospectively.
Any of these can give rise investment performance of pension fund investments: greater life to compensation payments to customers.
Controls are in place to expectancy than assumed: adverse changes in interest rates or mitigate these risks, but errors could give rise to future liabilities.
inflation: and other events occurring that increase the costs of Payments due to errors or compensation may negatively impact past service benefits over the amounts predicted in the actuarial our profits.
In the short term, the funding position is inherently volatile due to movements in the market value of assets.
Where Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 141 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Moves to simplify the operating structure and activities of the We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and Group increases the reliance placed on core businesses and is may be subject to infringement claims by a third party.
Our primary brand Aviva is a registered trade mark in the UK As part of the Groups move to a more simplified structure, a and elsewhere.
We own other registered or pending trade marks number of business disposals and operational restructures have in the UK, including Community trade marks having effect in the taken place and may continue to occur in the future.
We rely on a combination of contractual rights, the removal of the regional organisational structure and the copyright and trademark laws to establish and protect our potential sale of a number of non-core businesses.
Although we use a broad range of measures are expected to reduce the operational costs of the Group and to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may allow resources to be re-deployed in more capital efficient infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property.
There is no assurance that these expected benefits will intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or be realised.
These changes may reduce operating profits in the enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could short-term and will lead to changes in the geographical and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability product risk profile of the Group.
The execution risk including the to compete.
risks relating to securing the regulatory approvals necessary to Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents complete our planned business disposals, could result in the or other protections that could be infringed by our products, failure to achieve cost savings, the loss of key staff, and disruption methods, processes or services or could limit our ability to offer to core business activities and governance structures which could certain product features.
In recent years, there has been have a material adverse effect on our business, results of increasing intellectual property litigation in the financial services operations and financial condition.
industry challenging, among other things, product designs and business processes.
If a third party were to successfully assert an Brand and reputation risks relating to Avivas business intellectual property infringement claim against us, or if we were We are rated by several rating agencies, and a decline in any otherwise precluded from offering certain features or designs, or of these ratings could affect our standing among customers, utilising certain processes, it could have a material effect on our broker-dealers, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of business, results of operation and financial condition.
our products and services and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.
Our businesses are conducted in highly competitive A rating downgrade, or the perceived potential for such a environments.
downgrade, of Aviva plc or any of our rated insurance subsidiaries There are many factors which affect our ability to sell our may, among other things, materially increase the number of products, including fiscal incentives, price and yields offered, policy surrenders and withdrawals by policyholders of cash values financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and product from their policies.
The outcome of such activities may be cash quality, brand strength and name recognition, investment payments requiring the sale of invested assets, including illiquid management performance and historical bonus levels.
In some of assets, at a price that may result in realised investment losses.
our markets, the Group faces competitors that are larger, have These cash payments to policyholders would result in a decrease greater financial resources or greater market share, offer a in total invested assets and a decrease in net income.
Among broader range of products, benefit from more advantageous tax other things, early withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate treatments, or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios.
amortisation of policy acquisition costs, which would reduce net Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled income.
A rating downgrade may also impact sales volumes, employees with local experience, particularly in the emerging, particularly in the US where there is more focus on ratings when high-growth markets, may limit our potential to grow our evaluating similar products.
The ratings provided by A. M. Best are business as quickly as planned.
widely considered to be the most important for distribution in the Our principal competitors in the life market include many of US, and although we have agreed to sell such operations, a the major financial services businesses including, in particular, downgrade could lead to a significant loss of sales.
Similarly, Axa, Allianz, Generali, Prudential and Standard Life.
Our principal a rating downgrade may increase our cost of borrowing or limit competitors in the general insurance market include Royal Bank our access to some forms of financing.
of Scotland Insurance, RSA, Zurich, Axa and Allianz.
We also face competitors who specialise in many of the niche We are dependent on the strength of our brand, the brands of markets in which we operate.
We believe that competition will our partners and our reputation with customers and agents in intensify across all businesses in response to consumer demand, the sale of our products and services.
technological advances, the impact of consolidation, regulatory Our results are, to a certain extent, dependent on the strength of actions and other factors.
While we as a Group are well Our ability to generate an appropriate return depends recognised, we are vulnerable to adverse market and customer significantly upon our capacity to anticipate and respond perception.
We operate in an industry where integrity, customer appropriately to these competitive pressures.
trust and confidence are paramount.
We are exposed to the risk that litigation, employee misconduct, operational failures, the Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory outcome of regulatory investigations, press speculation and supervision both in the UK and internationally.
negative publicity, disclosure of confidential client information, We are subject to extensive laws and regulations that are inadequate services, amongst others, whether true or not, could administered and enforced by a number of different impact our brand or reputation.
Our brand and reputation could governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory also be affected if products or services recommended by us or agencies, including the FSA and other regulators.
In light of wider any of our intermediaries do not perform as expected whether financial and economic conditions, some of these authorities are or not the expectations are founded or in line with the considering, or may in the future consider, enhanced or new customers expectations for the product range.
Such a change regulatory requirements intended to prevent future crises or to our brand strength could adversely affect our results of otherwise assure the stability of institutions under their operations and financial condition.
These authorities may also seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more robust ways.
All of these possibilities, if they occurred, could affect the way we conduct our business and manage our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital requirements.
142 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Insurance regulation in the UK is largely based on the industries in any of the markets in which we operate, which may requirements of EU directives.
Inconsistent application of be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect our product directives by regulators in different EU member states may place range, distribution channels, capital requirements, dividends our business at a competitive disadvantage to other European payable by subsidiaries and, consequently, results and financing financial services groups.
In addition, changes in the local requirements.
regulatory regimes of designated territories could affect the We may face increased compliance costs due to the need to calculation of our solvency position.
set up additional compliance controls or the direct cost of such Our insurance subsidiaries worldwide are subject to detailed compliance because of changes to financial services legislation or and comprehensive government regulation in each of the regulation.
jurisdictions in which they conduct business.
Regulatory agencies The Solvency II Directive Solvency II, an insurance industry have broad administrative power over many aspects of the regulation agreed by the European Parliament in 2009, will insurance business, which may include premium rates, marketing require European domiciled insurers to move to more risk-based and selling practices, advertising, licensing agents, policy forms, capital requirements.
The implementation date for Solvency II has capital adequacy and permitted investments.
Government been extended to January 2014 and may be extended further.
regulators are concerned primarily with the protection of There continue to be material uncertainties around the impact of policyholders rather than our shareholders or creditors.
In the UK, the more detailed technical requirements of Solvency II and there our business is subject to regulation by the FSA, which has broad is a risk that this could lead to a significant increase in the capital powers under the FSMA, including the authority to grant, vary the required to support our business.
terms of, or cancel a regulated firms authorisation, to investigate marketing and sales practices and to require the maintenance of We are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory adequate financial resources.
The FSA has the power to take a investigations and examinations and may be involved in range of investigative, disciplinary or enforcement actions, more in the future.
including public censure, restitution, fines or sanctions and to We have been named as defendants in lawsuits, including class award compensation.
The FSA is being replaced by twin actions and individual lawsuits.
We have been subject to regulators, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial regulatory investigations or examinations in the various Conduct Authority.
This change will take effect on 1 April 2013. jurisdictions where we operate.
These actions arise in various The FSA may make enquiries of the companies which it contexts, including in connection with our activities as an insurer, regulates regarding compliance with regulations governing the securities issuer, employer, investment adviser, investor and operation of business and, similar to the other UK regulated taxpayer.
Certain of these lawsuits and investigations seek financial services companies, we face the risk that the FSA could significant or unspecified amounts of damages, including punitive find that we have failed to comply with applicable regulations or damages, and certain of the regulatory authorities involved in have not undertaken corrective action as required.
these proceedings have substantial powers over the conduct and Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the way operations of our business.
in which the insurance industry or fund management industry has Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and sold or administered an insurance policy or other product or in the investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict with way in which they have treated policyholders or customers, either any certainty the potential impact of these lawsuits or individually or collectively.
Where larger groups or matters of public policy are In the course of conducting insurance business, we receive concerned, the FSA may intervene directly.
There have been general insurance liability claims, and become involved in actual or several industry-wide issues in recent years in which the FSA has threatened related litigation arising there from, including claims in intervened directly, including the sale of personal pensions, the respect of pollution and other environmental hazards.
Given the sale of mortgage-related endowments and investments in split significant delays that are experienced in the notification of these capital investment trusts and payment protection insurance.
claims, the potential number of incidents that they cover and the Outside of the UK, our business is regulated by local uncertainties associated with establishing liability and the regulators that often have similar powers to the FSA and could availability of reinsurance, the ultimate cost cannot be determined therefore have a similar negative impact on perceptions of our with certainty.
business or have a material adverse effect on our business.
Additionally, it is possible that a regulator in one of our major Furthermore, various jurisdictions in which we operate, markets may conduct a review of products previously sold, either including the UK, have created investor compensation schemes as part of an industry-wide review or specific to us.
The result of that require mandatory contributions from market participants in this review may be to compensate customers for losses they have some instances in the event of a failure of another market incurred as a result of the products they were sold.
As a major participant in the majority of our chosen All of the above could adversely impact our results of markets, circumstances could arise where we, along with other operations or financial condition.
companies, may be required to make such contributions.
From time to time, changes in the interpretation of existing tax A determination that we have failed to comply with applicable laws, amendments to existing tax rates or the introduction of regulation could have a negative impact on our results of new tax legislation may adversely impact our business.
operations or on our relations with current and potential We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world and customers.
Regulatory action against a member of the Group face risks associated with changes in tax law, interpretation of tax could result in adverse publicity for, or negative perceptions law, changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply with regarding, the Group, or could have a material adverse effect on procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage tax risks our business, our results of operations and financial condition and could lead to an additional tax charge or a financial penalty.
divert managements attention from the day-to-day management If, as a result of a particular tax risk materialising, the tax costs of the business.
associated with certain transactions are greater than anticipated, We will not always be able to predict the impact of future it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
legislation or regulation or changes in the interpretation or There are also specific rules governing the taxation of operation of existing legislation or regulation on our business, policyholders.
We are unable to predict accurately the impact of results of operations and financial condition.
Changes in future changes in tax law on the taxation of life insurance and government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation pension policies in the hands of policyholders.
Amendments to applying to companies in the financial services and insurance existing legislation, particularly if there is the withdrawal of any Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 143 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 tax relief, or an increase in tax rates, or the introduction of new Holders of our ADSs will have limited recourse if we or the depositary fail to meet our respective obligations under the rules, may affect the future long-term business and the decisions Deposit Agreement.
The impact of such changes upon us might The Deposit Agreement expressly limits our obligations and depend on the mix of business in-force at the time of liability and those of the depositary.
Neither we nor the depositary such change.
will be liable if either of us: The design of life insurance products by our life insurance are prevented from or delayed in performing any obligation companies takes into account a number of factors, including risks by circumstances beyond our their control: and taxation.
The design of long-term insurance products is based exercise or fail to exercise discretion under the Deposit on the tax legislation in force at that time.
Changes in tax Agreement: or legislation or in the interpretation of tax legislation may therefore, take any action based upon the advice of, or information when applied to such products, have a material adverse effect on from, legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting the financial condition of the relevant long-term business fund of ordinary shares for deposit, any person in whose name the the company in which the business was written.
ADSs are registered on the books of the depository, any person or entity having a beneficial interest deriving from Risks related to ownership of the ADSs and the ownership of ADRs, or any other person believed by us ordinary shares or the depositary in good faith to be competent to give such The trading price of our ADRs and dividends paid on our ADSs advice or information.
may be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting sterling into US dollars.
In addition, the depositary has the obligation to participate in any An ADS is a negotiable US security representing ownership in action, suit or other proceeding with respect to our ADSs which one share.
An ADR is denominated in US dollars and represents may involve it in expense or liability only if it is indemnified.
ownership of any number of ADSs.
ADRs are publicly traded These provisions of the Deposit Agreement will limit the ability of shares in a non-US corporation, quoted and traded in US dollars holders of our ADSs to obtain recourse if we or the depositary fail in the US securities market.
Any dividends are paid to investors to meet our obligations under the Deposit Agreement or if they in US dollars.
ADRs are specifically designed to facilitate the wish to involve us or the depositary in a legal proceeding.
purchase, holding and sale of non-US securities by US investors.
The term ADR is often used to mean both the certificates and The holders of our ADRs in the US may not be able to the securities themselves.
participate in offerings of rights, warrants or similar securities Fluctuations in the exchange rate for converting pound to holders of our ordinary shares on the same terms and sterling into US dollars may affect the value of our ADRs.
conditions as holders of our ordinary shares.
Specifically, as the relative value of the pound sterling against the In the event that we offer rights, warrants or similar securities to US dollar declines, each of the following values will also decline: the holders of our ordinary shares or distribute dividends payable, the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling trading price in whole or in part, in securities, the Deposit Agreement provides of our ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange which that the depositary after consultation with us shall have may consequently cause the trading price of our ADRs in the discretion as to the procedure to be followed in making such US to also decline: rights or other securities available to ADR holders, including the US dollar equivalent of the proceeds that a holder of disposing of such rights or other securities and distributing the net our ADSs would receive upon the sale in the UK of any our proceeds in US dollars to ADR holders.
Given the significant ordinary shares withdrawn from the depositary: and number of our ADR holders in the US, we generally would be the US dollar equivalent of cash dividends paid in pound required to register with the SEC any public offering of rights, sterling on our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs.
warrants or other securities made to our ADR holders unless an exemption from the registration requirements of the US securities The holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise laws is available.
Registering such an offering with the SEC can be their voting rights due to delays in notification to, and a lengthy process which may be inconsistent with the timetable by, the depositary.
for a global capital raising operation.
Consequently, we have in The depositary for our ADSs may not receive voting materials for the past elected and may in the future elect not to make such our ordinary shares represented by our ADSs in time to ensure an offer in the US, including to our ADR holders in the US, and that holders of our ADSs can instruct the depositary to vote their rather only conduct such an offering in an offshore transaction shares.
In addition, the depositarys liability to holders of our in accordance with Regulation S under the US Securities Act ADSs for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of 1933, as amended the Securities Act.
Therefore, there can of carrying out voting instructions is limited by the Deposit be no assurance that our ADR holders will be able to participate Agreement governing our ADR facility.
As a result, holders of our in such an offering in the same manner as our ordinary ADSs may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may have shareholders.
limited or no recourse against the depositary or us, if their shares are not voted according to their request.
144 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2012 The ADR and ordinary share price of Aviva has been, and may continue to be volatile.
The share price of our ADRs and ordinary shares has been volatile in the past and the share price and trading volume of our ADRs may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due, in part, to changes in our actual or forecast operating results and the inability to fulfil the profit expectations of securities analysts, as well as to the high volatility in the securities markets generally and more particularly in shares of financial institutions.
Other factors, besides our financial results, that may impact our share price include, but are not limited to: market expectations of the performance and capital adequacy of financial institutions in general: investor perceptions of the success and impact of our strategies: a downgrade or review of our credit ratings: potential litigation or regulatory action involving Aviva or sectors we have exposure to through our insurance and fund management activities: the operations, accounting practices or regulatory investigations, and share price performance of other companies in the insurance and fund management markets in which the Group operates: and conjecture about the Groups business in the press, media or investment communities.
As a foreign private issuer in the US we are exempt from certain rules under the US securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the SEC than US companies.
As a foreign private issuer we are exempt from certain rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act, that impose certain disclosure obligations and procedural requirements for proxy solicitations under Section 14 of the Exchange Act.
In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and shortswing profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules under the Exchange Act with respect to their purchases and sales of our ordinary shares and ADRs.
Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as US companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act.
In addition, we are not required to comply with Regulation FD, which restricts the selective disclosure of material information.
Although we must comply with UK Listing Rules on insider reporting of share ownership and on protection of inside information, there may be less publicly available information concerning us than there is for US public companies.
Aviva plc is an English company and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers.
Aviva plc is incorporated under the laws of England and Wales and our business is based in the UK.
In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the US, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of such persons are located in jurisdictions outside the US.
As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the US upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of US courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the US federal securities laws.
Shareholder rights under English law differ from the US.
Individual shareholders of an English company including US persons have the right under English law to bring lawsuits on behalf of the company in which they are a shareholder, and on their own behalf against the company, in certain limited circumstances.
English law does not permit class action lawsuits by shareholders, except in limited circumstances.
Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 145 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Financial statements IFRS In this section 26 Receivables 208 27 Deferred acquisition costs, Independent auditors report 146 other assets, prepayments Accounting policies 148 and accrued income 208 Consolidated financial statements 160 28 Assets held to cover linked liabilities 209 Consolidated income statement 160 29 Ordinary share capital 210 Consolidated statement of 30 Groups share plans 210 comprehensive income 161 31 Shares held by employee trusts 214 Reconciliation of Group operating profit 32 Preference share capital 214 to loss profit for the year 162 33 Direct capital instruments and fixed Consolidated statement of changes rate tier 1 notes 215 in equity 164 34 Merger reserve 215 Consolidated statement of 35 Other reserves 216 financial position 166 36 Retained earnings 216 Consolidated statement of cash flows 167 37 Non-controlling interests 217 38 Contract liabilities and associated Notes to the consolidated reinsurance 217 financial statements 39 Insurance liabilities 218 168 1 Exchange rates 40 Liability for investment contracts 228 2 Presentation changes 168 41 Financial guarantees and options 229 168 3 Subsidiaries 42 Reinsurance assets 232 4 Segmental information 171 43 Effect of changes in assumptions 179 5Details of income and estimates during the year 233 6 Details of expenses 180 44 Unallocated divisible surplus 234 181 7Finance costs 45 Tax assets and liabilities 235 8 Long-term business 46 Provisions 236 182 economic volatility 47 Pension obligations 237 9 Longer-term investment return 48 Borrowings 243 and economic assumption changes 49 Payables and other financial liabilities 246 for non-long-term business 183 50 Other liabilities 246 184 10 Employee information 51 Contingent liabilities and other 11 Directors 185 risk factors 246 186 12 Auditors remuneration 52 Commitments 247 13 Tax 187 53 Group capital structure 248 189 14 Loss earnings per share 54 Statement of cash flows 249 15 Dividends and appropriations 190 55 Capital statement 251 191 16 Goodwill 56 Risk management 253 17 Acquired value of in-force business 57 Derivative financial instruments 193 AVIF and intangible assets and hedging 264 18 Interests in, and loans to, 58 Assets under management 266 194 joint ventures 59 Related party transactions 266 19 Interests in, and loans to, associates 196 Financial statements of the Company 267 197 20 Property and equipment Statement of changes in equity 267 21 Investment property 198 Statement of financial position 268 198 22 Fair value methodology Statement of cash flows 269 23 Loans 201 Notes to the Companys financial 24 Securitised mortgages and statements 270 related assets 203 204 25 Financial investments
