56 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Risk and capital management Risk profile Risk management objectives The types of risk to which the Group is exposed have not changed As a global insurance group, risk management is at the heart of significantly over the year and remain credit, market, insurance, what we do and is the source of value creation as well as a vital asset management, liquidity, operational and reputational risks as form of control.
It is an integral part of maintaining financial described in note 56 of the IFRS financial statements.
stability for our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Reflecting Avivas objective of building financial strength and Our sustainability and financial strength are underpinned by reducing capital volatility, the Group has taken steps to amend its an effective risk management process which helps us identify risk profile.
These include a net sell down of approximately 3.6 major risks to which we may be exposed, establish appropriate billion gross of minority interests Italian government bonds, controls and take mitigating actions for the benefit of our a reduction in credit exposure to European financial institutions customers and investors.
The Groups risk strategy is to invest its and a move towards a more general reduction in credit risk available capital to optimise the balance between return and risk predominantly achieved through the sale of the Groups US whilst maintaining an appropriate level of economic i. e. risksubsidiary which remains subject to regulatory approval.
based capital and regulatory capital in accordance with our risk Restrictions on non-domestic investment in sovereign and appetite.
Consequently, our risk management objectives are to: corporate debt from Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain Embed rigorous risk management throughout the business, remain in place and balance sheet volatility was further reduced based on setting clear risk appetites and staying within through the sell down of Delta Lloyd in July 2012.
As described in these: note 56, a number of foreign exchange rate, credit and equity Allocate capital where it will make the highest returns on hedges are also in place.
The reduction in credit and equity a risk-adjusted basis: and exposure noted above also reflects a broader move towards a Meet the expectations of our customers, investors and more balanced risk profile.
regulators that we will maintain sufficient capital surpluses Subsequent to the year end, the Group has also taken action to meet our liabilities even if a number of extreme risks to improve its access to dividends from the Groups insurance and materialise.
asset management businesses by undertaking a corporate restructuring whereby Aviva Group Holdings AGH has purchased Avivas risk management framework has been designed and from Aviva Insurance Limited AIL its interest in the majority of its implemented to support these objectives.
The key elements of our overseas businesses.
This purchase has been funded by risk management framework comprise our risk appetite: risk intercompany loans.
It is planned to pay down the intercompany governance, including risk policies and business standards, risk loan balances over time, in addition to meeting the Groups oversight committees and roles & responsibilities: and the normal operating expenses, taxes, interest on our external debt, processes we use to identify, measure, manage, monitor and dividends and repayment of maturing debt.
report IMMMR risks, including the use of our risk models and Going forward, the Groups focus is on fewer businesses as stress and scenario testing.
These elements are expanded in the is reflected in the sale of Avivas Czech Republic, Hungarian and Financial statements IFRS Note 56.
Romanian life businesses, the sale of Avivas interest in our Sri Lankan joint venture, our remaining stake in Delta Lloyd and the Principal risks and uncertainties agreed sale of the US business, the Romanian pensions business, In accordance with the requirements of the FSA Handbook Aviva Russia, and our stake in the Malaysian joint venture CIMB.
8 we provide a description of the principal risks and The process of exiting these non-core businesses will reduce the uncertainties facing the Group here and in note 56.
Our amount of the Groups capital employed in less economically disclosures covering risks relating to our business in line with profitable areas, decrease balance sheet volatility and required reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Commission capital, and will allow capital to be re-employed in businesses SEC provide more detail and can be found in the shareholder that enhance the Groups return on risk based capital.
Execution information section Risks relating to our business.
risk is inherent in the completion of all strategic transactions, with a corresponding potential impact on capital requirements Risk environment and liquidity.
Financial market conditions during 2012 were volatile although As a result of the sale of businesses in particular the US, the positive overall, benefiting from the expansionary monetary Groups future earnings have been reduced and the tangible net policies followed by central banks across a number of economies asset value of the Group has fallen leading to an increase in the in the second half of the year.
However, the continued political leverage ratio to close to 50%.
We have plans in place to and economic uncertainty relating to the Eurozone combined improve earnings through managing the deployment of capital to with the high levels of debt in many western economies continues maximise return and expense reduction though clearly execution to act as a brake on economic growth and raises the likelihood risk remains.
These additional earnings, combined with higher of a low growth, low interest rate environment persisting for retained profits, should enable us to reduce our external leverage some time.
ratio to 40% in the medium term and reduce internal leverage.
Reflecting the wider financial and economic conditions, both UK and international regulatory authorities have implemented, Capital management or are in the process of considering, enhanced regulatory Capital management objectives requirements intended to prevent future crises arising or assure The primary objective of capital management is to optimise the the stability of institutions under their supervision.
A good balance between return and risk, whilst maintaining economic example of this in the UK is the Prudential Regulatory Authoritys and regulatory capital in accordance with risk appetite.
Avivas PRA proposed focus on ensuring that firms have adequate capital and risk management objectives are closely interlinked, resolution arrangements in place.
and support the dividend policy and earnings per share growth, Further regulatory uncertainty arose from the ongoing whilst also recognising the critical importance of protecting discussions regarding the technical standards for, and the policyholder and other stakeholder interests.
implementation date of, Solvency II.
Aviva continues to actively Overall capital risk appetite, which is reviewed and approved participate in the development of Solvency II through key by the Aviva Board, is set and managed with reference to the European industry working groups.
requirements of a range of different stakeholders including shareholders, policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
Risk appetite is expressed in relation to a number of key capital and risk measures, and includes an economic capital risk appetite of holding sufficient capital resources to enable the Group to meet Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 57 57 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual report and accounts 2012 its liabilities in extreme adverse scenarios, on an ongoing basis, Total capital employed is financed by a combination of equity calibrated at a level consistent with a AA range credit rating.
shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt and In managing capital we seek to: borrowings.
maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength in At 2012 we had 21.4 billion 2011: 20.8 billion of total accordance with risk appetite, to support new business capital employed in our trading operations measured on an growth and satisfy the requirements of our regulators and MCEV basis.
other stakeholders giving both our customers and In May 2012 we issued US$650 million of Fixed Rate Tier 1 shareholders assurance of our financial strength: Notes.
The Notes are perpetual and may be called from November optimise our overall debt to equity structure to enhance our 2017.
The Notes qualify as Innovative Tier 1 capital under current returns to shareholders, subject to our capital risk appetite regulatory rules and are expected to be treated as Fixed Rate Tier and balancing the requirements of the range of 1 capital under Solvency II transitional rules.
The transaction had a stakeholders: positive impact on Group IGD solvency and Economic Capital retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, measures.
In June 2012 US$300 million of Lower Tier 2 floating including significant unutilised committed credit facilities rate notes were redeemed at first call.
and access to a range of capital markets: Financial leverage, the ratio of external senior and allocate capital rigorously across the Group, to drive value subordinated debt to MCEV capital and reserves, was 35.1% adding growth through optimising risk and return: and 2011: 36.7%.
Fixed charge cover, which measures the extent to declare dividends with reference to factors including growth which external interest costs, including subordinated debt interest in cash flows and earnings.
and preference dividends, are covered by MCEV operating profit was 5.1 times 2011: 8.9 times.
The impact of the agreement to In line with these objectives, the capital generated and invested by sell Aviva USA has meant that financial leverage under IFRS is the Groups businesses is a key management focus.
capital generation, which measures net capital generated after Regulatory capital overview taking into account capital invested in new business before the Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency impact of non-operating items is a core regulatory capital based based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the management performance metric used across the Group.
This is regulations established by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
embedded in the Groups business planning process and other These measures are also consolidated under the European primary internal performance and management information Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate regulatory capital processes.
adequacy at an aggregate Group level, where we have a Capital is measured and managed on a number of different regulatory obligation to have a positive position at all times.
These are discussed further in the following sections.
This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of Accounting basis: regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate Capital employed by segment and financing of capital minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, 26 The table below shows how our capital, on an MCEV basis, excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life is deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European businesses is based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
In broad terms, 2012 2011 for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and m m unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general insurance Long-term savings 16,337 14,148 portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross premiums or General insurance and health 6,089 5,875 Fund management 225 184 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to reflect the level of Other business 1,059 1,102 reinsurance recoveries.
For our major non-European businesses 1 Corporate 588 508 the US and Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities Delta Lloyd 776 approach is used.
United States 365 361 Total capital employed 21,369 20,750 Regulatory capital Group Financed by: European Insurance Groups Directive Equity shareholders funds 12,434 12,829 Non-controlling interests 2,214 1,476 Direct capital instruments and fixed rate tier 1 notes 1,382 990 UK Life Other funds business 2012 2011 Preference shares 200 200 bn bn bn bn Subordinated debt 4,337 4,550 External debt 802 705 Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital resources 5.2 9.2 14.4 14.1 Total capital employed 21,369 20,750 Less: capital resource requirement 1 Corporate includes centrally held tangible net assets, the staff pension scheme surplus and also reflects internal CRR 5.2 5.4 10.6 11.9 lending arrangements.
These internal lending arrangements, which net out on consolidation, arise in relation to the following: Insurance Groups Directive Aviva Insurance Limited AI acts as both a UK general insurer and as the primary holding company for our foreign IGD excess solvency 3.8 3.8 2.2 subsidiaries.
Internal capital management mechanisms in place allocate a portion of the total capital of the company to the UK general insurance operations, giving rise to notional lending between the general insurance and holding Cover of EU minimum company activities.
These mechanisms also allow for some of the assets of the general insurance business to be made calculated excluding UK available for use across the Group.
Life funds 1.7 times 1.3 times 2 Subsequent to the year end, the Group has taken action to improve its access to dividends from the Groups insurance and asset management business by undertaking a corporate restructure.
This will see the Groups interest in the majority of its overseas businesses move to Aviva Group Holdings Limited from Aviva Insurance Limited.
Certain subsidiaries, subject to continuing to satisfy stand-alone capital and liquidity requirements, loan funds to corporate and holding entities.
These loans satisfy arms length criteria and all interest payments are made when due.
26 MCEV: market consistent embedded value: In preparing the MCEV information, the directors have done so in accordance with the MCEV principles with the exception of stating held for sale operations at their expected fair value, as represented by expected sale proceeds, less cost to sell.
58 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual report and accounts 2012 The EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD regulatory capital business unit and Group level, we allow for diversification benefits solvency surplus has increased by 1.6 billion since 31 December between risks and between businesses, with restrictions to allow 2011 to 3.8 billion.
The key movements over the period are set for non-fungibility of capital where appropriate.
This means that out in the following table: the aggregate capital requirement is less than the sum of capital required to cover all of the individual risks.
The capital bn requirement reflects the cost of mitigating the risk of insolvency IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2011 2.2 to a 99.5% confidence level over a one year time horizon Operating profits net of other income and expenses 0.9 equivalent to events occurring in 1 out of 200 years against Dividend and appropriations, net of shares issued in lieu of dividends 0.7 financial and non-financial tests.
1 Market movements including foreign exchange 1.3 Pension scheme funding 0.2 The financial modelling techniques employed in economic Movement in hybrid debt 0.2 capital enhance our practice of risk and capital management.
UK reinsurance transactions 0.1 They enable understanding of the impact of the interaction of Increase in Capital Resources Requirement 0.1 different risks allowing us to direct risk management activities Other regulatory adjustments 0.1 appropriately.
These same techniques are employed to enhance Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2012 3.8 product pricing and capital allocation processes.
Unlike more 1 Market movements include the impact of equity, credit spread, interest rate and foreign exchange movements net of the effect of hedging instruments.
traditional regulatory capital measures, economic capital also recognises the value of longer-term profits emerging from inRegulatory capital UK Life with-profits fund force and new business, allowing for consideration of longer-term The available capital of the with-profits funds is represented by value emergence as well as shorter-term net worth volatility in our the realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the assets of risk and capital management processes.
We continue to develop the long-term with-profits funds less the realistic liabilities for nonour economic capital modelling capability for all our businesses as profit policies within the funds, less asset shares aggregated part of our development programme to increase the focus on across the with-profits policies and any additional amounts economic capital management and meeting the emerging expected at the valuation date to be paid to in-force policyholders requirements of the Solvency II framework and external agencies.
in the future in respect of smoothing costs, guarantees and promises.
Realistic balance sheet information is shown below for Solvency II the three main UK with-profit funds: Old With-Profit Sub-Fund The development of Solvency II continues in 2012 with a view to OWPSF, New With-Profit Sub-Fund NWPSF and With-Profit complete discussions about legislation.
The key priority is Sub-Fund WPSF.
These realistic liabilities have been included concluding the discussions on the Omnibus II directive to provide within the long-term business provision and the liability for clarity about the implementation date as well as the role of insurance and investment contracts on the consolidated IFRS transitionals in the Level 2.
Once this is concluded we expect the statement of financial position at 31 December 2012 and 31 European Commission to complete the development of the Level December 2011.
2 implementing measures that will establish the technical requirements governing the practical application of Solvency II.
2012 2011 Aviva continues to actively participate in these developments Estimated Capital Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimate realistic support risk excess excess through the key European industry working groups and by realistic realistic inherited arrangecapital available available 1 2 3 assets liabilities estate ment margin capital capital engaging with the FSA and HM Treasury to inform the ongoing bn bn bn bn bn bn bn negotiations in Brussels.
NWPSF 17.3 17.3 0.7 0.4 0.3 0.7 OWPSF 2.9 2.6 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.2 Rating agency 4 WPSF 18.3 16.5 1.8 0.5 1.3 1.0 Credit ratings are an important indicator of financial strength and Aggregate 38.5 36.4 2.1 0.7 1.0 1.8 1.9 support access to debt markets as well as providing assurance to 1 These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of future bonuses of 0.3 billion 31 December 2011: 0.3 business partners and policyholders over our ability to service billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders share of future bonuses are 36.0 billion 31 December 2011: 38.8 billion.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and promises on a contractual obligations.
In recognition of this we have solicited market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within realistic liabilities is 1.8 billion, 0.3 billion and 3.5 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively 31 December 2011: 1.9 billion, 0.3 billion and relationships with a number of rating agencies.
The agencies 3.1 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
generally assign ratings based on an assessment of a range of 2 Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2011 was nil, 0.3 billion and 1.6 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
financial factors e. g. capital strength, gearing, liquidity and fixed 3 This represents the reattributed estate of 0.7 billion at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: 1.1 billion held within NPSF1 a non-profit fund within UKLAP included within other UK life operations.
charge cover ratios and non-financial factors e. g. strategy, 4 The WPSF fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund, which has realistic assets and liabilities of 1.7 billion and competitive position, and quality of management.
therefore does not impact the realistic inherited estate.
Certain rating agencies have proprietary capital models which Investment mix they use to assess available capital resources against capital The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the three main requirements as a component in their overall criteria for assigning with-profits funds at 31 December 2012 was: ratings.
Managing our capital and liquidity position in accordance with our target rating levels is a core consideration in all material 2012 2011 capital management and capital allocation decisions.
% % The Groups overall financial strength is reflected in our credit Equity 23% 22% ratings.
The Groups rating from Standard and Poors is A Property 16% 17% Fixed interest 51% 54% strong with a Stable outlook: Aa3 excellent with a Other 10% 7% Negative outlook from Moodys: and A excellent with a Stable outlook from A. M. Best.
The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting withFinancial flexibility profit asset shares are 71% in NWPSF and OWPSF, and 64% The Groups borrowings are comprised primarily of long dated in WPSF.
hybrid instruments with maturities spread over many years, Economic capital minimising refinancing risk.
In addition to central liquid asset We use a risk-based capital model to assess economic capital holdings of 1.4 billion, the majority of which was held within requirements and to aid in risk and capital management across Aviva Insurance Limited at the 2012 year end, the Group also has the Group.
The model is based on a framework for identifying the access to unutilised committed credit facilities of 2.1 billion risks to which business units, and the Group as a whole, are provided by a range of leading international banks.
Where appropriate, businesses also supplement these with additional risk models and stressed scenarios specific to their own risk profile.
When aggregating capital requirements at Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 59 59 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual report and accounts 2012 Capital generation and utilisation The active management of the generation and utilisation of capital is a primary Group focus, with the balancing of new business investment and shareholder distribution with operating capital generation a key financial priority.
Operating capital generation for the full-year 2012 was 2.0 billion.
Life business generated 2.1 billion of capital 2011: 2.3 billion, with a further 0.6 billion 2011: 0.6 billion generated by the general insurance and fund management businesses and other operations.
Capital invested in new business was 0.7 billion 2011: 0.8 billion, and continues to benefit from management actions to improve capital efficiency.
The 0.7 billion of capital investment is primarily in life new business with the impact of capital investment in non-life business broadly neutral over the period.
2012 2011 bn bn Operating capital generation: 1 Life in-force profits 2.1 2.3 General insurance, fund management and non-insurance profits 0.6 0.6 Operating capital generation before investment in new business 2.7 2.9 Capital invested in new business 0.7 0.8 Operating capital generation after investment in new business 2.0 2.1 1 The Life in-force profits in 2012 exclude the negative impact of a true up relating to a prior estimate of required capital, which is included in the MCEV Free Surplus Emergence, as this does not impact the actual capital generated in 2012.
Operating capital generation comprises the following components: Operating Free surplus emergence, including release of required capital, for the life in-force business net of tax and non-controlling interests : Operating profits for the general insurance and non-life businesses net of tax and non-controlling interests.
: Capital invested in new business.
For life business this is the impact of initial and required capital on free surplus.
For general insurance business this reflects the movement in required capital, which has been assumed to equal the regulatory minimum multiplied by the local management target level.
Where appropriate movements in capital requirements exclude the impact of foreign exchange and other movements deemed to be non-operating in nature.
Post disposal on 6 May 2011, all Delta Lloyd capital generation, including life business, has been included within general insurance, fund management and other operations profits on an IFRS basis.
The amount of operating capital remitted to Group is dependent upon a number of factors including non-operating items and local regulatory requirements.
As well as financing new business investment, the operating capital generated is used to finance corporate costs, service the Groups debt capital and to finance shareholder dividend distributions.
After taking these items into account the net operating capital generated after financing is 0.5 billion.
2012 2011 bn bn Operating capital generation after investment in new business 2.0 2.1 Interest, corporate and other costs 0.8 0.6 External dividend net of scrip 0.7 0.5 Net operating capital generation after financing 0.5 1.0
