Performance: Risk Management Managing risk effectively The following discussion may not contain all the information All decisions related to risk and risk management reside that is important to readers of this Annual Report.
at the BGH Board level, rather than being delegated to For additional information relating to the risk management a separate Risk Committee, allowing each Director to process and procedures of the Group, please refer to the Note contribute meaningfully to the risk management of the 27 of the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
The BGH Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk philosophy and appetite and approving the Risk Management Policy overall risk management strategy and policy of the Group.
Management of risk is fundamental to the banking business It is responsible for maintaining sound system of internal and is an essential element of the Banks operations.
The control that supports the achievement of its goals Risk Management Policy adopted by BGH sets out the and objectives.
manner in which BGH identifies, assesses, manages The BGH Board is also responsible for overseeing the and monitors the risk programme for BGH, the Bank establishment, implementation and review of the Groups and its other subsidiaries.
The Bank seeks to manage risk management systems and, to this end, has delegated its overall risk exposure by continuously improving its certain risk management functions to different executive risk management policies and systems.
boards, executive committees and management of its The main objectives of the Risk Management Policy are to: subsidiaries, as deemed necessary.
At least once a year, the BGH Board conducts a review of the effectiveness of Set out the Groups risk management bodies: the Groups risk management and internal control systems, Set out the Groups risk management and risk reporting including the Risk Management Policy.
The review covers procedures: all material controls, including financial, operational and Define roles and responsibilities within the Group in compliance controls.
relation to risk: Identify and define the nature and extent of the Groups The Audit Committee of BGH is responsible for assessing significant risks: the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function as Formulate the Groups risk appetite: well as keeping under review the Groups internal controls Ensure that identified risks are monitored and mitigated and systems for assessing and mitigating financial and where possible: and non-financial risks.
Please see further details on the Ensure that identified risks are properly reported, both Audit Committee on page 77. internally and externally.
Bank of Georgias risk management procedures are Responsibilities designed to identify and analyse relevant risks to its Responsibility for the implementation risk of management business, prescribe appropriate limits to various risk areas procedures within the Group lies at all levels of the Group and to monitor the level and incidence of such risks on an from BGH Board of Directors to business managers and ongoing basis.
The Bank regularly reviews its risk analysis risk managers.
The distribution of responsibilities ensures processes in order to institute improvements which are that risk return decisions are taken at the appropriate level.
required in light of the development and growth of its business and the varying nature of the risks which the Bank faces in its day-to-day business.
BGH Risk Management Policy isavailable on the website: http: bogh.
co. uk en corporate-governance 56 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk Management Bodies of Bank of Georgia Audit Committee Supervisory Board of Bank of Georgia Internal Audit Asset and Liabilities Credit Management Board Management Committees Committee ALCO Credit Risk Operational Risk Anti-Money Financial Risk Treasury Legal Management Management Laundering Management Bank of Georgia is the principal subsidiary of Bank of Georgia Holdings.
The Banks risk management system is based on the the activities of the internal audit and external auditors of principle of continually assessing risk throughout the the Bank.
The Bank Internal Audit also reviews AML policies life of any operation and includes such stages as: and procedures and presents audit reports on AML to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Bank Audit risk identification: Committee is elected and directly monitored by the Bank quality and quantity assessment of a particular risk: Supervisory Board.
determination of an acceptable risk level: placement of limits and creation of reserves: The Management Board has overall responsibility use of collateral: for the Banks asset, liability and risk management ongoing monitoring and control allowing efficient activities, policies and procedures.
The Management adjustments in case of any negative changes in the Board delegates individual risk management functions conditions on which the preliminary risk assessment to each of the various decision making and execution was made: and bodies within the Bank.
analysis of efficiency of the risk management system.
Treasury is responsible for managing the Banks assets The major risks inherent in the Banks operations are and liabilities and the overall financial structure and is also liquidity risk, market risk including currency exchange primarily responsible for managing funding and liquidity rate risk and interest rate risk, credit risk, operational risk risks of the Bank.
The Internal Audit department ensures that the Banks The Supervisory Board is responsible for the overall risk policies conform to current legislation and regulation management approach and for approving risk strategies and and professional norms and ethics.
The Internal Audit principals and is ultimately responsible for identifying and department is responsible for monitoring and assessing controlling risks.
It approves the Banks Credit Policies, which the adequacy of compliance with internal procedures at outline credit risk control and monitoring procedures and all levels of the Banks management.
This department the Banks credit risk management systems and approves regularly inspects the integrity, reliability and compliance certain decisions which fall outside the scope of the Credit with applicable law of operations conducted by departments Committees authority including approvals of single group of the Bank that are responsible for risk management, and borrower lending exposure exceeding US$ 25.0 million.
The regularly reviews the reliability of the Banks information Bank Management Board presents a comprehensive credit technology systems in accordance with a predetermined risk report and market risk report to the Banks Supervisory schedule.
It also assesses the reliability and integrity of Board for their review on a quarterly basis.
financial information and monitors the Banks internal controls and reporting procedures.
The Internal Audit The Audit Committee has overall responsibility for department is independent from the Bank Management developing and implementing overall risk assessment and Board.
The Head of the Internal Audit department is risk mitigation strategies, principles, frameworks, policies appointed by the Bank Supervisory Board and reports and limits.
It is responsible for fundamental risk issues findings and recommendations directly to both the and manages and monitors compliance of relevant risk Bank and BGH Audit Committees.
management decisions with the Banks risk management policy, covering but not limited to: macroeconomic and The principal function of the Internal Audit department environmental risks, general control environment, manual is to reduce the levels of operational and other risks, and application controls, risks of intentionally or unintentional audit the Banks internal control systems, and detect misstatements, risk of fraud or misappropriation of assets, any infringements or errors on the part of the Banks information security, anti-money laundering, information departments and divisions.
The Bank Audit Committee facilitates Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 57 Performance: Risk Management continued As part of its auditing procedures, the Internal Audit The Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer, or CRO and the Credit department is responsible for the following: Risk Management department review the credit quality of the loan portfolio, set provisioning rates and, in consultation identifying and assessing potential risks regarding with the Banks CEO and the Deputy CEO, Finance, adopt the Banks operations: decisions on the acceleration and write-off, on a monthly reviewing the adequacy of the existing controls basis.
Each Credit Committee is comprised of tiers of established in order to ensure compliance with the subcommittees.
The Credit Committee for retail loans Banks policies, plans, procedures and business comprises four tiers of subcommittee.
objectives: developing internal auditing standards and All exposures to single Corporate Banking borrowers over methodologies: US$25.0 million require approval by the Supervisory Board.
carrying out planned and random inspections of the Each of the subcommittees of the Credit Committees make Banks branches and subdivisions and auditing its their decisions by a majority vote of their respective members.
subsidiaries: The Banks Micro and SME Credit Committee approves analysing the quality of the Banks products: loans resulting in the Banks overall exposure of up participating in external audits and inspections by to US$ 500,000, while decisions on loans under the NBG: US$ 100,000 are made at the branch level pursuant making recommendations to management on the basis to joint approval by the Director of the Micro and SME of external and internal audits to improve internal controls: Lending department or group leader.
monitoring the compliance of the Bank with the NBG regulations: and The Bank has in place a Problem Loan Recovery monitoring the implementation of auditors Committee, which manages the Banks exposures to recommendations.
problem loans and reports to the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer.
The Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer also The Internal Audit Department applies a risk-based audit chairs the committee which oversees loans which are approach to assess the significant risks that impact the the subject of litigation.
The Problem Loan Recovery Banks business, how and how well those risks are Committee is chaired by one of the following: 1 the managed and controlled, what measures are used to heads of the Problem Loan Management department: 2 monitor the process, the reliability of the Banks key the heads of the Risk departments: or 3 the Deputy CEO, performance indicators and management information Chief Risk Officer, depending on the level of exposure.
and the efficiency of the process.
The Corporate Recovery Committee is responsible for Credit Committees.
The Banks Credit Committees are at monitoring all of the Banks exposures to loans that are the centre of the Banks lending and approval process.
The being managed by the Corporate Recovery Department.
Credit Committees supervise and manage the Banks credit The Corporate Recovery Committee is chaired by the risks.
The Credit Committees supervise and manage the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer.
Banks credit risks in respect of retail loans which, for risk management purposes include wealth management loans and corporate loans.
Each Credit Committee approves individual loan transactions and establishes credit risk categories and provisioning rates on such transactions.
Credit Committee tiers of subcommittees Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Corporate Banking loans US$ Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Less than US$500,000 US$200,000 for Management new issuer Tier II Head of the Credit Risk Analysis unit Between US$500,000 and US$1.5 million or between US$200,000 and US$750,000 for a new borrower Tier III CEO CRO Greater than US$1.5 million or greater than US$750,000 for a new borrower Subcommittee Chair Approval limit for Retail Banking loans US$ Tier I Risk Manager of the relevant Credit Risk Less than US$150,000 Management Tier II Deputy Head of Credit Risk Management Between US$150,000 and US$300,000 for department retail loans Tier III Director of the Credit Risk Management Between US$300,000 and US$2.0 million department Tier IV CEO CRO Greater than US$2.0 million 58 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Asset and Liabilities Management Committee as well as with ALCO policies.
Capital adequacy management ALCO is the core risk management body that establishes is an integral part of the Banks actual monthly reporting as policies and guidelines with respect to capital adequacy, well as the Banks annual and semi-annual budget approval market risks and respective limits, funding liquidity risk and and budget review processes.
Finance Department respective limits, interest rate and prepayment risks and prepares NBG and Basel I capital adequacy actual reports respective limits, money market general terms and credit as well as their forecasts and budgets, as well as different exposure limits, designs and implements respective risk stress scenarios for both regulations, while ALCO and the management and stress testing models in practice and Management Board regularly review them, identify risks, regularly monitors compliance with the pre-set risk limits, issue recommendations or propose amendment measure.
approves treasury deals with non-standard terms.
The Legal departments principal purposes are to ensure Specifically, ALCO: the Banks activities conform to applicable legislation and Sets money-market credit exposure lending limits: to minimise losses from the materialisation of legal risks.
Sets open currency position limits with respect to The Legal department is responsible for the application overnight and intraday positions and development of mechanisms for identifying legal risks Establishes stop-loss limits for foreign currency in the Banks activities in a timely manner, investigation operations and securities: of the Banks activities in order to identify any legal risks, Monitors compliance with the established risk planning and implementation of all necessary actions for management models for foreign exchange risk, interest the elimination of identified legal risks, participation in legal rate risk and funding liquidity risk: proceedings on behalf of the Bank where necessary and Sets ranges of interest rates for different maturities at investigating possibilities for increasing the effectiveness which the Bank may place its liquid assets and attracts of the Banks legal documentation and its implementation funding: and in the Banks daily activities.
The Legal department is also Reviews different stress tests and capital adequacy responsible for providing legal support to structural units models prepared by the Finance Department.
The ALCO is chaired by the CEO and at any time deemed The Anti-Money Laundering Compliance department necessary, with decisions made by a majority vote of its is responsible for the implementation of the Banks AML members.
ALCO members include the CEO, Deputy CEO programme including the development of AML policies Finance, Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer, Deputy CEO and procedures, transaction monitoring and reporting and Corporate Banking, Deputy CEO, Retail Banking, Deputy employee training throughout the Bank and its subsidiaries.
CEO, Asset and Wealth Management, the Head of the The AML programme is based on recommendations and Financial Department, the Head of the Financial Risk requirements of Georgian and international organisations Management Unit of the Finance Department, the Head including the Financial Action Task Force on Money of the Treasury Department and the Head of the Funding Laundering and the Office of Foreign Assets Control of Department.
The ALCO reviews financial reports and indices the United States Department of the Treasury.
The Banks including the Banks limits ratios, balance sheet, statement Internal Audit department audits the AML Compliance of operations, maturity gap, interest rate gap, currency gap, department and monitors implementation of the AML foreign exchange risk, interest risk and funding liquidity risk programme.
It is fully independent of all other business reports, total cash flow analyses, customer cash flow analysis, functions within the Bank.
concentration risk analysis, for the past periods as well as The Bank and BGH have policies and procedures aimed future projections and forecasts, other financial analysis and at preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, further growth projections on a monthly basis.
including a general anti-money laundering policy and rules on Regulatory capital requirements in Georgia are set by NBG counteracting money laundering and financing of individuals and are applied to the Bank, on a stand-alone basis.
NBG and legal entities engaged in terrorist activities and in the requires the Bank to maintain a minimum Total Capital case of the Bank, procedures for reporting to the Financial adequacy ratio of 12% of risk-weighted assets and a minimum Monitoring Service of Georgia FMS, a legal entity of public Tier I Capital adequacy ratio of 8% of risk-weighted assets, law.
The FMS was established in 2003 and serves as both computed based on the Banks stand-alone special Georgias financial intelligence unit.
These procedures aim to, purpose financial statements prepared in accordance with among other things, minimise the risk of the Bank being used NBG regulations and pronouncements.
The Bank also follows as a vehicle for money laundering or terrorist financing, Basel I capital adequacy regulations on its own, having protect the Bank from financing and reputation risks of being established respective minimal internal ratios of 16% for Total associated with money laundering or terrorist financing Capital and 10% for Tier I Capital, as opposed to 8% and 6% activities and ensure that banking services are provided of original Basel I pronouncement, respectively.
ALCO is the only to bona fide clients.
key governing body for the Capital adequacy management as The Bank has also implemented specific policies and well as for the respective risks identification and management.
procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of the ALCO establishes limits and reviews actual performance over EUs Third Directive, which requires financial institutions those limits for both, NBG as well as Basel I capital adequacy to identify and verify the identity of its customers and their regulations.
Finance Department is in charge of regular beneficial owners and monitor its customers transactions, monthly monitoring and reporting over NBG and Basel I while taking into account a risked-based approach.
capital adequacy compliance with original pronouncements Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 59 Performance: Risk Management continued Adopting a risk-based approach implies the adoption of a risk The Credit Risk Management department manages credit management process for dealing with money laundering and risks with respect to particular borrowers and assesses terrorist financing.
This process encompasses recognising overall loan portfolio risks.
It is responsible for ensuring the existence of risks, undertaking an assessment of those compliance with the Banks Credit Policies, management risks and developing strategies to manage and mitigate of the quality of the Banks loan portfolio and filing and the identified risks.
The Bank uses a risk assessment matrix loan administration.
based on the client, sector, country and product risk.
The The Operational Risk Management and Control Department Bank has a general AML policy: know your customer is responsible for identification and assessment of operational procedures that require it to identify its clients, verify their risk categories within the Banks processes and operations.
identity and their ultimate beneficial owners as well as It is also responsible for detecting critical risk areas or groups the economic rationale of their transactions: know your of operations with an increased risk level and developing correspondent bank procedures that involve careful internal control procedures to address these risks, including screening of prospective correspondent banks AML among others business-process optimisation schemes, policies: and know your employee procedures to including document circulation, information streams, prevent its employees involvement in money laundering distribution of functions, permissions and responsibility.
The Legal Department monitors all changes in relevant The Banks risk-based approach means that it applies laws and regulations, and ensures that those changes are enhanced due diligence procedures if it determines that properly reflected in the Banks procedures, instructions, there is a significant risk that particular clients are engaged manuals, templates and other relevant documentation.
in money laundering and financing terrorism.
It also disseminates information on legislative changes The Bank carries out transaction monitoring using profiling to all relevant departments within the Bank.
The Legal and rules-based methodologies.
Customer profiling is used department also participates in drafting laws and regulatory to identify unusual patterns of activity by comparing current documents upon request of legislators and regulators, patterns with previous transactions by the same customer certain associations and other professional bodies.
Under the rule-based methodology, certain Legal department is responsible for registering the collateral types of transactions over GEL 30,000 or its equivalent in taken by the Bank, monitored by the credit administration foreign currencies as well as transactions involving certain and documentation unit.
high-risk, non-cooperative or suspicious jurisdictions are The Tax Compliance unit of the Finance Department subject to monitoring and reporting.
focuses on the Banks relationship with the tax authorities and provides practical advice and monitors tax compliance Implementation of Risk Management across the Group.
System The Banks risk management system is implemented by Each of the foregoing departments is provided with the Finance Department and the Treasury, Credit Risk policies and or manuals that are approved by the Bank Management, Operational Risk Management and Control, Management Board and or the Bank Supervisory Board.
Legal, AML Compliance and Security Departments and The manuals and policies include comprehensive guidance other departments.
The Reporting and Analysis unit and the for each stage of a transaction, including, but not limited to, Financial Risk Management unit of the Finance Department manuals outlining asset and liability management policies, report to the Head of the Finance Department.
The Finance foreign exchange operations procedures, fixed income Department and the Treasury Department report to the investment guidelines, retail banking operations Deputy CEO, Finance.
The Credit Risk Management procedures, the deposit policy and the credit policies.
Corporate Banking Portfolio Analysis and Operational Risk Risk Types, Monitoring and Mitigation Management and Control Departments report to the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer.
Procedures The Bank measures risk using a method which The Retail Credit Risk Management Department reports to reflects both the expected loss likely to arise in normal the Deputy CEO, Retail Banking and Deputy CEO, Chief Risk circumstances and unexpected losses, which are an Officer.
The Legal and AML Compliance Departments report estimate of the ultimate actual loss based on different to the Deputy CEO, Legal.
The Financial Risk Management forecasting models.
These models use probabilities derived unit of the Finance department, in coordination with the from historical experience, adjusted from time to time to Treasury, implements the Banks market risk policies by reflect the economic environment.
The Bank also runs ensuring compliance with established open currency position worst case scenarios that could arise in the event that limits, counterparty limits, and the interest rate policy set those extreme events, however unlikely, do, in fact, occur.
The Treasury department manages foreign currency exchange, money market, securities portfolio and Monitoring and controlling risks is primarily performed derivatives operations and monitors compliance with the based on limits established by the Bank.
These limits reflect limits set by the ALCO for these operations.
The Treasury the business strategy and market environment of the Bank Department is also responsible for management of shortas well as the level of risk that it is willing to accept, with term liquidity and treasury cash flow and monitors the additional emphasis on selected industries.
The Bank also volumes of cash in the Banks ATMs and at its branches.
conducts ongoing monitoring and control allowing efficient adjustments in case of any unexpected changes in the 60 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information conditions on which the preliminary risk assessment was Liquidity position is at a made.
In addition the Bank monitors and measures the overall risk bearing capacity in relation to the aggregate comfortable level well above risk exposure across all risks types and activities.
the regulatory requirements Risk Management Reporting The Group maintains a management reporting system which requires the Credit Risk Management Department, the Finance Department, the Treasury Department, the Operational Risk Management Department and other relevant departments of relevant subsidiaries of the Group to prepare certain reports on a daily, monthly, quarterly and annual basis.
On a daily basis, a statement of operations, balance sheet and Treasury Report providing open foreign currency positions, Liquidity Risk cash flows, limits and balances on correspondent accounts Definition and confirmation that there has been compliance with Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will be unable to meet mandatory financial ratios is provided by each department.
its payment obligations when they fall due under normal On a monthly basis, a report on the structural liquidity gap, and stress circumstances.
a report on interest rate risk, monthly financial statements and a management and supervisory board report containing Monitoring analysis of the Groups performance against the budgets are Liquidity risk is managed through the ALCO-approved provided to the Management Board.
On a quarterly basis, liquidity framework.
Treasury manages liquidity on a daily credit risk and operational risk report is submitted to the basis.
In order to manage liquidity risk, it performs daily Management Board and to the Supervisory Board.
monitoring of future expected cash flows on clients and banking operations, which is a part of the assets liabilities Information compiled from all the business area of the Bank management process.
The Finance department prepares is examined and processed in order to analyse, control and submits monthly reports to the ALCO.
The ALCO and identify risks early.
This information is presented and monitors the proportion of maturing funds available to meet explained to the Bank Management Board, and the head of deposit withdrawals and the amounts of interbank and each business division.
The report includes aggregate credit other borrowing facilities that should be in place to cover exposure, liquidity ratios and risk profile changes.
Senior withdrawals at unexpected levels of demand.
management assesses the appropriateness of the allowance The liquidity risk management framework models the for credit losses on a monthly basis.
The Bank Management ability of the Bank to fund its business under both normal Board and Bank Supervisory Board receive a comprehensive conditions and during a crisis situation.
The Bank has risk report once a quarter which is designed to provide all the developed a model based on the Basel III liquidity guidelines.
necessary information to assess and draw conclusions on This approach is designed to ensure that the funding the Banks risk exposure.
framework is sufficiently flexible to ensure liquidity under a Risk Mitigation and Excessive Risk wide range of market conditions.
The liquidity management Concentration framework is reviewed from time to time to ensure it is As part of its overall risk management, the Bank uses appropriate to the Banks current and planned activities.
derivatives and other instruments to manage exposures Such review encompasses the funding scenarios modelled, resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign the modeling approach, wholesale funding capacity, limit currencies.
While these are intended for hedging, determination and minimum holdings of liquid assets.
The these do not qualify for hedge accounting.
liquidity framework is reviewed by the ALCO prior to approval by the Bank Management Board.
The Bank actively uses collateral to reduce its credit risks.
The Finance Department also undertakes an annual Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties, or funding review that outlines the current funding strategy for related entities or shareholders, are engaged in similar business the coming year.
This review encompasses trends in global activities, or activities in the same geographic region, or have debt markets, funding alternatives, peer analysis, estimation similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet of the Banks upcoming funding requirements, estimated contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in market funding capacity and a funding risk analysis.
The economic, political or other conditions.
annual funding plan is reviewed by the Bank Management Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Banks Board and approved by the Bank Supervisory Board as performance to developments affecting a particular industry part of the annual budget.
The Funding and Treasury or geographical location.
In order to avoid excessive departments also review, from time to time, different concentrations of risks, the Bank focuses on maintaining a funding options and assess the refinancing risks of diversified portfolio.
Identified concentrations of credit risks such options.
are controlled and managed accordingly.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 61 Performance: Risk Management continued Borrowed funds maturity breakdown US$, millions 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Eurobonds 247.3 Senior loans 72.4 66.9 57.8 35.2 26.1 11.5 3.0 Subordinated loans 35.0 40.0 50.1 Promissory notes 38.3 1.8 Total 110.7 68.7 57.8 35.2 308.4 51.5 53.1 % of Total assets as of 31 December 2012 3.2 2.0 1.7 1.0 9.0 1.5 1.6 Mitigation Client deposits are a consistent source of funding for The Banks capability to discharge its liabilities is dependent Bank of Georgia.
As of 31 December 2012, client deposits on its ability to realise an equivalent amount of assets within including deposits of individuals were GEL 2,622.9 million, the same period of time.
The Bank maintains a portfolio of or 57.1% of total liabilities 31 December 2011: GEL 2,554.1 highly marketable and diverse assets that it believes can be million and 66.3%, respectively.
In accordance with the easily liquidated in the event of an unforeseen interruption of Georgian legislation, the Bank is obliged to repay such cash flow.
It also has committed lines of credit that it can deposits upon demand of a depositor.
In case of early access to meet its liquidity needs.
Georgian commercial withdrawal, the interest on deposit is foregone or reduced.
banks are entitled to get one week NBGs refinancing As of 31 December 2012, the Groups total consolidated facility by pledging NBG certificates of deposit, Georgian amounts due to customers were GEL 2,693.0 million and Government Securities or mortgage loans denominated represented 58.6% of the Groups total liabilities.
In addition, the Bank maintains a cash Funding flexibility is also provided by Bank of Georgias deposit an obligatory reserve with the NBG, the amount ability to raise wholesale funding from international markets.
of which depends on the level of customer funds attracted.
As of 31 December 2012, in line with the NBGs requirements, Borrowed funds reached GEL 1,225.8 million as 15% of customer deposits in foreign currencies are set aside of 31 December 2012, or 26.7% of total liabilities as minimum mandatory reserves.
In addition, the Bank 31 December 2011: GEL 863.0 million, or 22.4% of total maintains a minimum average balance of 10% of its customer liabilities.
In July 2012, the Bank issued US$250 million deposits in Georgian Lari at its correspondent account at the 7.75% Notes due in 2017.
In addition, during 2012, Bank NBG.
For wholesale funding, the NBG requires the Bank to set of Georgia has signed loan agreements for the aggregate aside 15% of its unsubordinated foreign currency wholesale amount of GEL 96.0 million with IFC and Kreditanstalt fuer funding for borrowings with remaining maturity of less than Wiederaufbau KfW.
As of 31 December 2012, the 83.8% one year, 5% for borrowings with a remaining maturity of of the Banks borrowed funds had a maturity of more than more than one year but less than two years and 10% of one year.
its unsubordinated Georgian Lari wholesale funding with a In addition, Bank of Georgia has trade finance lines from remaining maturity of less than one year.
The NBGs liquidity various international financial institutions and credit lines ratio average liquid assets during the month as defined by for interbank-operations from both Georgian and nonthe NBG divided by average-borrowed funds with effective resident banks.
As of 31 December 2012, the Bank had maturity of more than six months plus certain off balance aggregate trade finance limits from international partner sheet commitments maturing within six months stood at credit institutions of US$308.8 million equivalent diversified 41.1% against the required minimum of 30%.
across different currencies US$, EUR, CHF 31 December Funding 2011: US$178.4.
The number of partner credit institutions Diversification of funding is an important component of that has opened trade finance lines the bank was 14 in the Banks liquidity management strategy.
2011: 10. sources of liquidity are debt issues, client funds including For further information on liquidity risk and funding client deposits or amounts due to customers and management please see Note 27 of the Notes to the promissory notes, borrowings including borrowings from Consolidated Financial Statements.
Developmental Financial Institutions, interbank deposits, principal repayments of loans, interest income and fees and Market Risk commissions income.
As of 31 December 2012, all of Bank Definition of Georgias funding was unsecured as it was bound by The Bank is exposed to market risk including currency negative pledge commitments to its lenders.
exchange rate risk and interest rate risk, which is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market variables.
Market risk exposure arises from open positions in fixed income and currencies, all of which are exposed to market fluctuations.
62 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Mitigation Within limits approved by the Bank Supervisory Board, The general principles of the Banks market risk the ALCO approves ranges of interest rates for different management policy are set by the ALCO.
The Bank aims maturities at which the Bank may place assets and attract to limit and reduce the amount of possible losses on open liabilities.
Compliance with the Banks interest rate policy is market positions which may be incurred by the Bank due monitored by the Head of the Financial Risk Management to negative changes in currency exchange rates and unit of the Finance department and the Head of the interest rates.
The Bank classifies exposures to market Treasury department.
risk into either trading or non-trading positions.
The In May 2009, the Bank entered into an ISDA Master Bank has no trading positions.
Non-trading positions are Agreement with IFC, pursuant to which from time to managed and monitored using sensitivity analysis.
In order time the Bank enters into interest rate swaps with IFC to to address these risks, the ALCO specifically establishes hedge its US Dollar interest rate risk on its outstanding limits on open foreign currency positions, individually by long-term borrowings.
currency as well as in aggregate.
The limits are controlled by Treasury and monitored by Finance Department and The Bank is also subject to prepayment risk, which is the ALCO as well.
risk that the Bank will incur a financial loss because its customers and counterparties repay or request repayment Currency Exchange Rate Risk.
Currency exchange rate earlier than expected, such as fixed rate mortgages when risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument will interest rates fall.
The Group reviews the prior history of fluctuate due to changes in foreign currency exchange early repayments by calculating the weighted average rate rates.
The Bank is exposed to the effects of fluctuation of early repayments across each credit product, individually, in the prevailing foreign currency exchange rates on its applying these historical rates to the outstanding carrying financial position.
amount of each loan product as at the reporting date and Mitigation by further multiplying the product by the weighted average The Banks currency risk is controlled through aggregate effective annual interest rates per each product.
This allows open currency positions and respective limits.
Its open the Bank to calculate the expected amount of unforeseen currency positions are managed by the Treasury department losses in case of early repayments.
and Finance department on a day-to-day basis and are Credit Risk monitored by the Head of Treasury on a real-time basis.
Definition The ALCO sets open currency position limits with respect Credit risk is the risk that a borrower or counterparty will be to both overnight and intraday positions and stop-loss limits.
unable to pay amounts in full when due.
Credit risk arises Currently, the Banks proprietary trading position is limited mainly in the context of the Banks lending activities.
The open currency position is also limited by ALCO to a maximum of 15.0% of the Banks NBG total Mitigation regulatory capital.
The ALCO limit of 15.0% is more The general principles of the Banks credit policy are conservative than NBG, which allows banks to keep open outlined in the Credit Policies.
The Credit Policies also positions of up to 20.0% of regulatory capital.
The Bank outline credit risk control and monitoring procedures and additionally limits open foreign currency positions, for the Banks credit risk management systems.
The Credit individual currencies other than US Dollars and Lari, to Policies are reviewed annually, or more frequently if 1% of the NBG regulatory capital.
The Bank also applies necessary.
For example, as a result of previous reviews, sensitivity stress tests to its open currency positions to new procedures addressing the standards and estimate potential negative impact on its net assets methodology for loan loss provisioning pursuant to IFRS and earnings.
requirements were implemented, new loan restructuring tools were introduced and the loan terms were tightened.
The Bank has exposure to interest The Bank also uses the NBGs provisioning methodology rate risk as a result of lending at fixed interest rates in in order to comply with NBG requirements.
amounts and for periods which differ from those of term borrowings at fixed and floating interest rates.
Interest The Bank manages its credit risk by placing limits on margins on assets and liabilities having different maturities the amount of risk accepted with respect to individual may increase or decrease as a result of changes in market corporate borrowers or groups of related borrowers, liability interest rates.
of insurance companies, types of banking operations and by complying with the exposure limits established by the Mitigation NBG.
The Bank monitors the market value of collateral, Similarly to other Georgian banks, the majority of the Banks requests additional collateral in accordance with the assets and deposits have fixed interest rates.
In order to underlying agreement, and monitors the market value minimise interest rate risk, the Bank monitors its interest of collateral obtained during its review of the adequacy rate repricing gap and maintains an interest rate margin of the allowance for the loan impairment.
The Bank also net interest income before impairment of interest earning mitigates its credit risk by obtaining collateral and using assets divided by average interest earning assets sufficient other security arrangements.
The exposure to individual to cover operational expenses and risk premium.
corporate borrowers including financial institutions is further restricted by sub-limits covering on and off-balance sheet exposures and daily delivery risk limits with respect to trading terms such as foreign exchange contracts.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 63 Performance: Risk Management continued The Credit Committees approve individual transactions, The Bank has conservative establish credit risk categories and provisioning rates in respect of such transactions.
The Deputy CEO, Chief Risk credit approval processes and Officer and Credit Risk Management department reviews the credit quality of the portfolio and sets provisioning rates, in underwriting criteria, all of which consultation with the Banks CEO and Deputy CEO, Finance, on a monthly basis.
are intended to maintain the The Banks credit quality review process provides early quality of its assets as its loan identification of possible changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties, including regulator collateral revisions.
portfolio grows Counterparty limits are established by the use of a credit risk classification system, which assigns each counterparty a risk rating.
Risk ratings are subject to regular revision.
The Since 2004, the Bank, jointly with certain other Georgian credit quality review process allows the Bank to assess the banks and with the Creditinfo Group, a provider of credit potential loss as a result of the risks to which it is exposed information solutions, established JSC Credit Information and take corrective action.
Georgia CIG, that serves a centralised credit bureau in The Bank makes available to its customers guarantees Georgia.
Since 2009, all the participating banks share and letters of credit which may require that the bank make contribute positive and negative customer credit information payments on their behalf.
Such payments are collected with CIG.
from customers based on the terms of the guarantee letter Collateral of credit.
They expose the Bank to similar risks to loans The Bank typically requires credit support or collateral as and these are mitigated by the same control processes security for the loans and credit facilities that it grants.
main forms of credit support are guarantees and rights to Loan approval procedures claim amounts on the borrowers current account with the The procedures for approving loans, monitoring loan quality Bank or other assets.
The main forms of collateral for and for extending, refinancing and or restructuring existing corporate lending are charges over real estate properties, loans are set out in the Banks Credit Policies that are equipment, inventory and trade receivables and the main approved by the Supervisory Board of the Bank and or the form of collateral for retail lending is a mortgage over Management Board of the Bank.
The Credit Committees residential property.
In the case of corporate loans, the approve individual transactions and establish credit risk Bank usually requires a personal guarantee surety from categories and provisioning rates.
Under the Banks internal guidelines, collateral should be provided where it is The Bank evaluates corporate banking clients on the basis required to cover outstanding liabilities during the entire of their credit history, business operations, market position, duration of a transaction.
As of 31 December 2012, 87.1% management, level of shareholder support, financial of the Groups loans to clients were collateralised.
An condition, proposed business and financing plan and on evaluation report of the proposed collateral is prepared the quality of the collateral offered.
The appropriate level by the Asset Appraisal and Disposal department and of the relevant Credit Committee is responsible for making submitted to the appropriate Credit Committee, together decision for loan approval based on credit memorandum, with the loan application and credit risk managers report.
and where appropriate, credit risk managers report.
The When evaluating collateral, the Bank discounts the market loan approval procedures for retail banking loans depend value of the assets to reflect the liquidation value of the collateral.
on the type of retail lending product.
Applications for consumer loans, including credit cards, and auto loans Measurement are treated under the scoring approval procedure.
While The Banks compliance with credit risk exposure limits is certain loans of up to GEL 6,000 are approved by the monitored by the Credit Risk Management department on a scoring system, the appropriate Credit Committee will continuous basis.
Exposure and limits are subject to annual determine the amount, terms and conditions of other loans.
The Bank establishes provisions Applications for mortgage loans by retail banking clients are for impairment losses of financial assets when there is completed by the mortgage loan officer and submitted to objective evidence that a financial asset or group of the Credit Risk Manager, who evaluates the credit risks and financial assets is impaired.
The Bank creates provisions determines the amount, terms and conditions of the loan, by reference to the particular borrowers financial condition which must be approved at the appropriate Credit and the number of days the relevant loan is overdue.
In the case of micro-financing loans, a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss officers evaluate loan applications, prepare a project decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to analysis and submit proposals to the appropriate Credit an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, Committee which makes the final decision.
Credit the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by an Committee members have equal voting authority and adjusted provision account.
The determination of provisions decisions are approved by a simple majority of votes.
for impairment losses is based on an analysis of the assets at risk and reflects the amount which, in the judgment of the Banks management, is adequate to provide for losses incurred.
Provisions are made as a result of an individual appraisal of financial assets.
64 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Mitigation As of 31 December 2012, The Bank is exposed to operational risks, arising out of the various operational activities in which it is engaged.
87.1% of theGroups loans The Bank cannot expect to eliminate all operational risks, but through a control framework and by monitoring and to clients were collateralised responding to potential risks, the Bank aims to manage the risks.
Controls include effective segregation of duties, access, authorisation and reconciliation procedures, staff education and training and assessment processes, including the use of internal audit.
The Bank manages its operational risks by establishing, monitoring and continuously improving its policies and procedures relating to the various aspects of the Banks cash, payments, Provisions are made against gross loan amounts and accounting, trading and core processing operations and accrued interest.
Under the Banks internal loan loss data backup and disaster recovery arrangements.
allowance methodology, which is based upon IFRS The Bank has an integrated control framework encompassing requirements, the Bank categorises its loan portfolio into operational risk management and control, AML compliance, significant and non-significant loans.
Significant loans are corporate and information security and physical security, each defined as loans in the amount of GEL 600,000 or more of which is managed by a separate department, and an and non-significant loans are defined as loans less than internal audit function for the Bank Group.
The Credit Risk Management department makes an individual assessment of significant loans and The Operational Risk Management and Control Department is loans with category a rating are given a collective responsible for identification and assessment of operational assessment rate.
All significant loans other than category A risk categories within the Banks processes and operations, are provisioned individually depending on the category they detecting critical risk areas or groups of operations with an fall in.
Categories are determined according to borrowers increased risk level, developing response actions and the financial performance business performance, leverage, imposition of restrictions in critical risk zones to neutralise credit history, quality of management and shareholders identified risk and developing business-process optimisation support.
In addition, the loan to collateral ratio and quality schemes, including document circulation, information streams, of collateral may affect the provisioning rates of individually distribution of functions, permissions and responsibilities.
All non-significant loans are divided into Operational Risk Management and Control department is also different groups for example mortgage, consumer, responsible for developing and updating policies and micro-financing loans.
procedures and ensuring that these policies and procedures meet legal and regulatory requirements and help to ensure All loans in range of GEL 100,000600,000 with overdue that material operating risks are within acceptable levels.
It also days more then 10 days are provisioned individually and monitors and periodically reviews the Banks internal control non-significant loans that are overdue more than 30 days are systems to detect errors or infringements by the Banks provisioned individually based on overdue days.
The Head of the Operational Risk impaired non-significant loans, as well as non-impaired prime Management department, who reports to the Deputy CEO, rated significant loans, are assessed collectively within the Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the oversight of the Banks sub-loan portfolio categories based upon historical loss operational risks.
Non-significant loans which are overdue for more then 150 days are written off automatically, except for mortgage loans which, since June 2009, are written off once overdue for more than 365 days.
Significant loans may be written-off following an assessment by the Deputy CEO, Chief Risk Officer and the Credit Risk Management department, in consultation with the Banks CEO and Deputy CEO, Finance.
Operational Risk Definition Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from systems failure, human error, fraud or external events.
When controls fail to perform, operational risks can cause damage to reputation, have legal or regulatory implications, or lead to financial loss.
For more information on credit risk please see Note 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Pg 159 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 65
