Performance: Principal Risks and Uncertainties Principal Risk and Uncertainties The following discussion sets forth certain risks and Although global markets showed signs of improvement in uncertainties that the Group believes are material.
If any 2010 and in the first half of 2011, during the second half of ofthe following risks actually occur, the Groups business, 2011 and in 2012, there has been turmoil in the European financial condition, results of operations or prospects banking system and a deterioration of sovereign credit of couldbe materially affected.
The risks and uncertainties anumber of European countries including Greece, Ireland, described below may not be the only ones the Group faces.
Italy, Spain, Portugal and Cyprus.
In addition, during 2012 Additional risks and uncertainties, including those that the there were concerns that these countries may experience Group is currently not aware of or deems immaterial, may double-dip or prolonged recessions.
These developments also result in decreased revenues, incurred expenses or have created an unfavourable environment for the banking other events that could result in a decline in the value of sector globally and in Georgia and could have a material theGroups securities.
adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
Macroeconomic risks and political risks Regional tensions could have an adverse effect on related to Georgia the local economy and the Group Difficult global economic conditions have had, and Georgia, which is bordered by Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia may continue to have, a material adverse effect on and Turkey, could be adversely affected by political unrest the Group within its borders and in surrounding countries.
In particular, The Group conducts its operations mainly in Georgia, Georgia has had ongoing disputes in the breakaway regions where most of its customers and assets are located.
of Abkhazia and the Tskhinvali Region South Ossetia and Nevertheless, the Groups business and performance are with Russia since the restoration of its independence in 1991. affected by global macroeconomic and market conditions.
These disputes have led to sporadic violence and breaches In 2008, the global economy entered the most severe of peace-keeping operations.
Mostrecently, in August 2008, downturn in 80 years, with the financial services industry the conflict in the Tskhinvali Region South Ossetia escalated facing unprecedented turmoil.
A shortage of liquidity, limited as Georgian troops engaged with local militias and Russian availability of funding, pressure on capital, deteriorating forces that crossed the international border, and Georgia asset quality and significant price volatility across a wide declared a state of war the 2008 Conflict.
Although Georgia range of asset classes put financial institutions, including and Russia signed a French-brokered ceasefire that called the Group under considerable pressure.
Many developed for the withdrawal of Russian forces later that month, Russia economies entered into recession and growth slowed in recognised independence of the breakaway regions and many emerging economies, including Georgia.
Russian troops continue to occupy Abkhazia and the The financial crisis was accompanied by a number of Tskhinvali Region South Ossetia and tensions continue.
In related developments, including an erosion of confidence in addition, relations between Georgias neighbours, Azerbaijan financial institutions, increased currency volatility, increased and Armenia, remain tense and there are sporadic instances counterparty risk and the risk of systemic failures.
Such of violence between these two countries.
Russia is opposed circumstances have caused disruptions in financial markets to the eastward enlargement of the North Atlantic Treaty worldwide, leading to liquidity and funding difficulties in the Organisation, potentially including ex-Soviet republics, such international banking system.
Access to capital, the credit as Georgia.
The Georgian government has taken certain markets, FDI and other forms of liquidity was significantly steps towards improving relations with Russia, however these impaired and the cost of financing for financial institutions have not currently resulted in any formal or legal changes increased considerably.
Asa result, the cost of borrowing in in the relationship between the two countries.
Any future the wholesale debt markets increased for the Group, the debt deterioration or worsening of Georgias relationship with capital markets were effectively closed or severely restricted to Russia, including any major changes in Georgias relations banks in emerging markets and certain international financial with Western governments and institutions, in particular in institutions owned by national governments, including the terms of national security, Georgias importance to Western EBRD and the IFC, became the principal source of long-term energy supplies, the amount of aid granted to Georgia or the funding for the Group.
The financial crisis also had a significant ability of Georgian manufacturers to access world export adverse effect on the valuation of assets and the capital markets, or a significant deterioration in relations between position of many financial institutions globally.
Azerbaijan and Armenia, may have a negative effect on the political and economic stability of Georgia, which could have an adverse effect on the Group.
46 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information As most of the Groups businesses operate only Market turmoil and economic deterioration in Georgia within Georgia, the Groups success is dependent couldalso have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, ona number ofeconomic, political and other factors businesses or financial condition of the Groups borrowers, affecting Georgia that are beyond its control which could in turn, increase the Groups NPL ratios, impair For the year ended 31 December 2012, 96.2% of the its loans and other financial assets and result in decreased Groups total consolidated profit was derived from its demand for the Groups products.
In such an environment, business in Georgia.
Therefore, macroeconomic factors consumer spending may decline and the value of assets relating to Georgia, such as GDP, inflation, interest and used as collateral for the Groups secured loans, including currency exchange rates, aswell as unemployment, real estate, could also decrease significantly which could personal income and the financial condition of companies, reduce recoveries on defaulting loans.
Any of these have a material impact on loan losses, margins and conditions could have a material adverse effect on customer demand for the Groups products and services, the Groups business, financial condition and results which materially affects the Groups business, financial of operations.
condition and results of operations.
In addition, the Georgian economy is highly dollarised.
Georgias main economic activities include tourism, transit Priorto 2008, the dollarisation rate of the banking system services, agriculture, mining, metals, machinery and defined as foreign currency deposits as a share of total chemicals.
According to the Geostat, the countrys deposits had declined with foreign currency deposits real GDP grew by 9.4% in 2006 and 12.3% in 2007 and, accounting for approximately 64.4% of all client deposits as according to the Ministry of Finance of Georgia, this at 1 January 2008.
As a result of the combined effects of growth was largely based on strong inflows of FDI and the 2008 Conflict and the global financial crisis, however, robust spending by the Government of Georgia.
However, the dollarisation rate increased to approximately 73.6% the global economic downturn and the 2008 Conflict led as at 1 January 2009, although it has since decreased to toa decline in public spending and Georgia experienced approximately 68.8% as at 1 January 2010, 67.0% as at a 57.9% reduction in FDI in 2009, compared to 2008, 1 January 2011, 59.2% as at 1 January 2012 and increased Real GDP in Georgia declined by 3.8% in 2009 compared to 63.8% as at 1 January 2013.
Although the NBG has with growth of real GDP by 2.3% in 2008 due to the adopted measures to support the development of Georgias global economic crisis, which led to deterioration in the domestic money markets, the dollarisation rate could employment market in Georgia and, in turn, contributed to adversely impact on the effectiveness of the implementation a decrease in loans and a slowdown in the rate of growth of the NBGs monetary and exchange rate policies, which of deposits in the Georgian banking sector.
In addition, the could negatively impact the purchasing power of the Lari, Georgian banking sector began to experience a shortage of restrict future growth in the GDP of Georgia and depress liquidity in the second half of 2008, which continued into the Georgias investment climate.
Any of these effects could, first half of 2009, increasing competition for retail deposits.
inturn, have a material adverse effect on the Georgian economy and therefore an adverse effect on the Group.
The economic slowdown in Georgia reduced the growth rate of the Groups portfolio of retail and corporate loans.
This in Instability or a lack of growth in the domestic turn affected the Groups net fee and commission income currency market may have an adverse effect on and, to a certain extent, the Groups net interest income, thedevelopment of Georgias economy and, in although net interest income was predominantly affected turn, have an adverse effect on the Group by a reduction in the size of the Groups securities portfolio.
Although the Lari is a fully convertible currency, there is Moreover, financing costs increased due to both the limited generally no market outside Georgia for the exchange of availability of funding on the inter-bank market, mainly driven Lari.
A market exists within Georgia for the conversion of by credit risk aversion, and increasing interest rates on bank Lari into other currencies, but it is limited in size.
According deposits resulting from increasing competition in the deposit to the NBG, in 2012, the total volume of trading turnover market, which also had a negative impact on the net interest in the Lari-US Dollar and Lari-Euro markets excluding income earned by the Group.
In addition, the quality of activities of the NBG amounted to US$ 14.4 billion and the Groups loan portfolio deteriorated as a result of the 5.0 billion, respectively.
According to the NBG, the economic slowdown, which resulted in an increase in the NBG had US$ 2.8 billion in gross official reserves as at Groups loans past due more than 90 days.
NPLs, defined 31 December 2011 and US$ 2.9 billion as at 31 December as loans past due more than 90 days and any additional 2012.
While the Government of Georgia has stated that losses estimated by the management declined from GEL these reserves will be sufficient to sustain the domestic 117.6 million at 31 December 2010 to GEL 100.3 million as currency market in the short term, a lack of growth of this at 31 December 2011 and then increased to GEL 126.3 currency market may hamper the development of Georgias million as at 31 December 2012.
FDI grew by 37.2% to economy, which could have a material adverse effect on the US$ 1.1 billion in 2011 from 2010 and declined by 22.6% businesses of the Groups corporate customers and, in to an estimated US$ 865.2 million in 2012.
Although the turn, a material adverse effect on the Group.
Georgian economy showed signs of improvement in 2010, 2011 and 2012, with real GDP growth of 6.3% in 2010, 7.2% in 2011, there can be no assurance that the recovery will continue or that there will not be a further deterioration in Georgias economy.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 47 Performance: Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued In addition, a lack of stability in the currency market may andhead of government, the leader of the United National adversely affect Georgias economy.
There was significant Movement Party, Mikheil Saakashvili, is President of Georgia instability in the Lari to US dollar exchange rate following the and head of state.
Pursuant to the provisions ofGeorgias Russian financial crisis of August 1998 and again following constitution the Constitution, the Georgian President the 2008 Conflict.
In November 2008, the NBG devalued currently has the ability to veto legislation adopted by the the Lari by 16.1%, a measure aimed at alleviating the Parliament.
Georgia faces several challenges, one ofwhich is negative impact of the global financial crisis on the Georgian the need to implement further economic and political reforms.
While the Lari generally appreciated against the However, there can be no assurance that these business and US dollar and other major international currencies from investor friendly reforms will continue orwill not be reversed or 2001 to 2008, the Lari then generally depreciated against that such reforms and economic growth will not be hindered the US dollar and other major international currencies until as a result of any changes affecting the continuity or stability of April 2011, since then the exchange rate has remained the coalition government or as a result of a rejection of reform stable.
The Lari US dollar exchange rate was 1.7728 as policiesbythe President, the Parliament or otherwise.
at31 December 2010, 1.6703 as at 31 December 2011 Mikheil Saakashvili has served as President of Georgia and 1.6567 as at 31 December 2012 The ability of the fortwo terms, having first been elected in January 2004.
Government of Georgia and the NBG to limit any volatility of The next presidential elections are scheduled to be held in the Lari will depend on a number of political and economic October 2013.
However, pursuant to the provisions of the factors, including the NBGs and the Governments ability to Constitution, President Saakashvili cannot stand for a third control inflation, the availability of foreign currency reserves term in office.
Should any protests or criticism arise in and FDI and other currency inflows.
Any failure to do so, relation to the conduct or outcome of the 2013 Presidential or a major depreciation or further devaluation of the Lari, election this may lead to political instability or disruption could adversely affect Georgias economy.
According to the within Georgia.
information provided by Geostat, annual inflation in Georgia, as measured by the end-of-period CPI in Georgia was 2.0% Additionally, on 15 October 2010, the Parliament approved in 2011 and 11.2% in 2010.
Inflation continued to rise in amendments to the Constitution which are intended to the first half of 2011, reaching 14.3% at 31 May 2011, but enhance the primary governing responsibility of the then decreased to 2.0% at 31 December 2011.
This trend Parliament, increase the powers of the Prime Minister continued throughout 2012 with inflation turning into 1.4% andreduce the powers of the Presidency.
It is currently deflation at 31 December 2012.
There is no guarantee that anticipated that the majority of these amendments to the the country will continue to remain unaffected by global Constitution will become effective after the 2013 Presidential increases in food prices.
High and sustained inflation could election.
However, although in March 2013 the Parliament lead to market instability, a financial crisis, a reduction in has unanimously adopted certain amendments to the consumer purchasing power and erosion of consumer constitution thus limiting the powers of the President, there confidence.
On the other hand, deflation, whilst increasing can be no assurance that the proposed favourable reforms the purchasing power of the Lari, can adversely affect in the healthcare andinsurance business will continue, foreign investment and the Groups profitability in its lending will not be reversed orwill not otherwise be hindered.
Any of these events could lead to a deterioration There can be no assurance that changes to Georgian in the performance of Georgias economy and negatively Parliamentary, Presidential or Prime Ministerial powers affect the businesses of the Groups customers which will not create political disruptions or political instability or could, in turn, have an adverse effect on the Group.
otherwise negatively affect the political climatein Georgia.
Political and governmental instability in Georgia The Georgian Dream coalition government is currently could have a material adverse effect on the local inthe process of preparing and finalising a range of new economy and the Group initiatives, including amendments to the Labour Code, Since the restoration of its independence in 1991, anti-monopoly regulations, court system and changes to Georgiahas experienced an ongoing substantial political the regulation ofthe healthcare sector.
The Group sees its transformation from a constituent republic in a federal healthcare andinsurance business as one area of future socialist state to an independent sovereign democracy.
Current planned healthcare reform significantly increases the market available to the Groups At the most recent Georgian Parliamentary elections which current and proposed activities.
were held on 1 October 2012 the Georgian Dream coalition won the election by a majority of seats.
The Georgian Changes in governmental policy, including changes in Dream party is generally seen to be business and investor theimplementation or approach of previously announced friendly and to date, has implemented economic and fiscal government initiatives, could have a material adverse affect policies which have generally been designed to liberalise on the Groups business, financial condition, results of theGeorgian economy.
The Georgian Dream coalition is operations and prospects.
ledby Bidzina Ivanishvili, who was officially approved by The Group may experience increases in its theParliament of Georgia the Parliament as the countrys incometaxes new Prime Minister on 25 October 2012.
Although the During the three years ended 31 December 2012, the Georgian Dream Coalition won the 2012 Parliamentary corporation income tax rate in Georgia was 15%.
This tax elections and Bidzina Ivanishvili is the Prime Minister rate is generally lower than the tax rate applicable to other of the Groups peer companies, particularly 48 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information thoseoperating in more developed Western countries.
The Groups loan portfolio for its corporate banking Furthermore, by virtue of the Economic Liberty Act passed segment is highly concentrated, with the Groups top by Parliament in July 2011 which enters into force on ten corporate borrowers accounting for 17.4% of the 1 January 2014 subject to certain exceptions, referenda are Groups total loan portfolio as at 31 December 2012 required to be held before raising taxes and tax rates.
gross of allowance for impairment.
To the extent that the However, no assurance can be given that there will not Group grows its loan portfolio by entering into additional inthe future be an increase in corporate income tax in arrangements with existing counterparties, it will increase Georgia.
Any significant increase in the rate of corporate its credit and general counterparty risk with respect to income tax in Georgia or other changes in taxation policy those counterparties.
could have a material adverse effect on the Groups Collateral values may decline business, financial condition and results of operations.
As at 31 December 2012, the Group held collateral against gross loans amounting to GEL 2,789.3 million, Risks relating to the Groups lending corresponding to 87.1% of the Groups total gross loans.
activities The main forms of collateral taken by the Group in its The Group may not be able to maintain the quality corporate lending are charges over real estate, equipment, ofits loan portfolio inventory and trade receivables.
The main form of collateral The quality of the Groups loan portfolio is affected by taken by the Group in its retail lending is a mortgage over changes in the creditworthiness of its customers, the ability of residential property.
In respect of mortgage loans which are customers to repay their loans on time, the statutory priority secured by real estate, the Group imposes a loan-to-value of claims against customers and the Groups ability to enforce based on a liquidation value of the collateral ratio of its security interests on customers collateral should such between 60% and 90% at the time the loan is advanced, customers fail to repay their loans and whether the value of depending on the value of the collateral.
Downturns in the such collateral is sufficient to cover the full amounts of those residential and commercial real estate markets or a general loans.
In addition, the quality of the Groups loan portfolio deterioration of economic conditions in the industries in may deteriorate due to various other reasons, such as any which the Groups customers operate, such as occurred negative developments in Georgias economy resulting in the during 2008 and 2009, may result in illiquidity and a decline financial distress or bankruptcy of the Groups customers or in the value of the collateral securing the Groups loans, the unavailability or limited availability of credit information including a decline to levels below the outstanding principal concerning certain customers, and other factors, such as a balance of those loans.
failure of the Groups risk management procedures or a rapid expansion of the Groups loan portfolio.
For example, during In addition, declining or unstable prices of collateral in 2008 and 2009, the Groups loan book quality was negatively Georgia may make it difficult for the Group to accurately affected by the economic slowdown in Georgia, Ukraine value collateral held by it.
If the fair value of the collateral and Belarus, as well as by the 2008 Conflict.
The Groups held by the Group declines significantly in the future, the loan impairment charges were to GEL 39.7 million in 2012 Group could be required to record additional provisions compared to GEL 23.5 million in 2011 and GEL 44.1 million andcould experience lower than expected recovery levels in 2010.
Also, as at 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, loans on collateralised loans past due more than 90 days which past-due more than 90 days accounted for 2.6%, 3.2% and could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Group.
4.6% of total gross loans, respectively.
NPLs accounted for Significant changes or volatility in the Groups 3.9% of gross loans as at 31 December 2012, 3.7% as at netinterest margin could have an adverse effect 31 December 2011 and 4.6% as at 31 December 2010.
Loans onthe Group that would otherwise be overdue or impaired whose terms The Group derives the majority of its total net income from net including as to principal and interest payment have been interest income.
As a result, the Groups operations areaffected renegotiated due to the borrowers existing or possible by fluctuations in its net interest margin.
In particular, the inability to pay Renegotiated Loans accounted for 3.2% Groups banking operations depend on the management of key of total gross loans as at 31 December 2012 as compared factors which affect the Groups net interest margin, such as to 4.5% and 10.9% as at 31 December 2011 and 2010, interest rates, competition for loans and deposits, customer respectively.
For more information regarding the credit quality demand and costs of funding.
These key factors are influenced of Renegotiated Loans, see The Groups risk management by factors beyond the Groups control, such as global and local methods may provide ineffective at mitigating credit risk.
economic conditions, the resources of the Groups competitors Although, the Board does not believe that there is a material and consumer confidence.
Interest rates are highly sensitive risk that the Groups loan portfolio quality will deteriorate in the tomany factors beyond the Groups control, including monetary next 12 months, there can be no assurance that in the longer policies and domestic and international economic and political term the Groups loan portfolio quality will not deteriorate and conditions and the reserve policies of the NBG.
that the Groups loan impairment charges will not increase, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 49 Performance: Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued A mismatch of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing 40.6% between 30 June 2011 and 31 December 2011. liabilities in any given period resulting from changes in any Accordingly, the regulatory capital of BNB decreased of the key factors outlined above, or otherwise, could to 14.6 million GEL 31.6 million as at 31 December 2011. reduce the Groups net interest margin.
The Groups NIM As at 1 January 2013, the regulatory capital of BNB was was 7.9%, 7.8% and 8.8% in the years ended 31 December 17.3 million GEL 37.8 million.
The NBRB has granted 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
The slight increase in the a temporary waiver of the minimum regulatory capital Groups NIM in 2012 as compared to 2011 was due to the requirement until 1January 2014.
The NBRB has also overall decrease of the Groups cost of funding from 8.0% set a limit on the amount of deposits from individuals in 2011 to 7.3% in 2012, supported by a decrease in the at GEL 49.5 million which is the value of deposits from proportion of Lari denominated customer deposits within individuals of BNB as at 1 February 2013 until BNB total customer deposits in the second half of 2012 in regulatory capital reaches minimum required level particular.
Any reduction in the Groups NIM caused by of25 million.
As at 31 December 2011, as a result changes in the key factors outlined above otherwise of the devaluation of the Belarusian Rouble, the could have a material adverse effect on the Groups net Group recognised a write down of GEL 23.4 million, interest income, which could, in turn, have a material representing the full amount of BNBs goodwill.
adverse effect on the Group.
Any subsequent devaluation of the Belarusian Rouble In addition, any increase in interest rates may result in an couldresult in further declines in BNBs regulatory capital.
increase in the instalment amounts paid by the Groups Although the Group seeks to minimise its open foreign customers.
Such an increase may result in difficulties currency positions through limits on the Groups foreign related to the repayment of the assumed loans, which in currency positions in accordance with NBG regulations and turn may lead to a decrease in the quality of the Groups through swap agreements, there can be no assurance that loan portfolio and an increase in impairment provisions for these measures will protect against foreign exchange risks loans extended to the Groups customers, which could since any additional depreciation of the Belarusian Rouble have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, may lead to further erosion of the Groups share capital financial condition and results of operations.
andpressure on its capital adequacy ratios.
The Group issubject to counterparty risk in respect of its swap agreements Currency fluctuations have affected, and may including its currency swap agreement with the NBRB, as continue to affect, the Group the Groups counterparties may not honour their obligations A substantial portion of the total assets of the Group, under the relevant swap agreement.
especially its loan portfolio 67.9% of its gross loans to customers as at 31 December 2012, is denominated in If the Lari exchange rate against the US dollar or the foreign currencies, primarily US Dollars, while the majority Belarusian Rouble exchange rate against the Euro ofcustomers who have their loans denominated in foreign fluctuates, or any of the Groups counterparties default currencies earn their income in Lari.
Those customers ontheir obligations, this could lead to the Group suffering are usually not protected against the fluctuations of the losses which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect exchange rates of the Lari against the currency of the loan.
on the Groups business, financial condition and results Consequently, any depreciation of the Lari against the ofoperations.
currency of the loan may result in difficulties in repayment The Groups risk management methods may prove ofthe loans, which may lead to a decrease in the quality of ineffective at mitigating credit risk the Groups loan portfolio and an increase in impairment Losses relating to credit risk may arise if the risk provisions for loans extended to the Groups customers, management policies, procedures and assessment which may have a material adverse effect on the Groups methods implemented by the Group to mitigate credit risk business, financial condition and results of operations.
and to protect against credit losses prove less effective In addition, the Groups operations are affected by the than expected.
The Group employs qualitative tools and Larito Belarusian Rouble exchange rates as these affect metrics for managing risk that are based on observed the value of the Groups equity interests in BNB, its historical market behaviour.
These tools and metrics may Belarusiansubsidiary, on a consolidated basis.
fail to predict future risk exposures, especially in periods of increased volatility or falling valuations or in periods in which Depreciation of the Belarusian Rouble against the Lari has there is a rapid expansion of the Groups loan portfolio.
In the effect of reducing BNBs contribution to the Groups addition, even though the Group requires regular financial consolidated capital.
In May 2011, the Belarusian Rouble disclosure by its corporate customers, customer financial was devalued by 39.5% as compared to its value as at statements may not always present a complete and 30April 2011, as measured against the US Dollar.
As a accurate picture of each customers financial condition.
result, the regulatory capital of BNB decreased below Furthermore, some of the Groups corporate customers theminimum regulatory capital required to accept retail may not have extensive or externally-verified credit histories, deposits being 25 million, as required by the National and their accounts may not be audited by a reputable Bank of Republic of Belarus.
In the second half of 2011, external auditor.
Therefore, notwithstanding the Groups the Belarusian Rouble depreciated further, asmeasured credit risk evaluation procedures, the Group may be unable against the US dollar, and declined another to evaluate effectively the current financial condition of each prospective corporate borrower and to evaluate the ability 50 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information of such corporate borrower to repay its loans when due.
If a substantial portion of the Groups Similarly, the financial condition of some private individuals customers rapidly or unexpectedly withdraw their demand transacting business with the Group is difficult to assess or term deposits or do not roll over their term deposits and predict, as some retail borrowers have no or very upon maturity, this could have a material adverse effect limited credit history.
Accordingly, the risk management on the Group.
systems employed by the Group may prove insufficient in The Group is subject to certain regulatory ratios measuring and managing risks and this may have a material The Bank, like all regulated financial institutions in Georgia, adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition is required to comply with certain capital adequacy and and results of operations.
regulatory ratios set by the NBG.
Although in the past, the Banks investments to equity and investment plus fixed Additional risks arising principally from assets to equity financial ratios have been below the level theGroups banking activities set by the NBG, the NBG confirmed on 31 December 2009 The Group faces liquidity risk that it would not impose any sanctions on the Bank as a The Group becomes exposed to liquidity risk when the result and the Bank has been in compliance with both of maturities of its assets and liabilities do not coincide.
these financial ratios since February 2011.
Liquidity risk is inherent in banking operations and can beheightened by a number of factors, including an In December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking over-reliance on, or an inability to access, a particular Supervision published the Basel III rules setting out certain source offunding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide changes to capital requirements applicable to banks.
phenomena such as financial market instability and natural Implementation of the new, combined regulation based on disasters.
The Group seeks to manage its liquidity risk by, Basel II and Basel III takes place at a national level, the NBG is among other things, maintaining a diverse funding base currently in the process of implementing Basel II and Basel III comprising short-term sources of funding including retail in Georgia.
On 17 January 2013, the NBG published a draft and corporate customer deposits, inter-bank borrowing regulation for capital adequacy based on Basel II and Basel III, and borrowing from the NBG and longer-term sources which makes adjustments to certain Basel II and Basel III offunding including borrowing from international credit rules, including those relating to foreign currency additional risk institutions, sales and purchases of securities and longweights, specific measurements and risk estimates.
The Groups current liquidity may Group had expected that the Basel III requirements are be affected by unfavourable financial market conditions.
phased in over a period of time commencing in April 2013.
If assets held by the Group in order to provide liquidity However, the NBG has notified the Bank about the delay in the become illiquid or their value drops substantially, the Group implementation of Basel II and Basel III until 1 January 2014. may therefore be required, or may choose, to rely on other The NBG is expected to publish an updated implementation sources of funding to finance its operations and expected schedule in due course.
As the implementation of Basel II and future growth.
However, there is only a limited amount of Basel III will be the subject of rules that have yet to be adopted funding available on the Georgian inter-bank market and the in Georgia, the Group cannot predict the impact such rules will Groups recourse to other funding sources may pose have on the Groups overall capital requirements.
additional risks, including the possibility that other funding In addition, BNB is licensed by the NBRB and is required to sources may be more expensive and less flexible.
In comply with certain capital adequacy ratios and minimum addition, the Groups ability to access such external funding share capital requirements set by the NBRB.
Although BNB sources is directly connected with the level of credit lines has the minimum level of regulatory capital required by available to the Group, and this in turn is dependent on the NBRB to conduct banking operations in Belarus the Groups financial and credit condition, as well as general minimum level for this purposes is set at the equivalent market liquidity.
of 5 million and, as at 31 December 2012, the regulatory As at 31 December 2012, 2011 and 2010, 87.7%, 92.7%, capital of BNB was 17.3 million, BNB has not had the and 92.8%, respectively, of the Groups amounts due to minimum level of regulatory capital required by NBRB in customers had maturities of one year or less while 48.2%, order to hold deposits from individuals set at the equivalent 55.6% and 48.3%, respectively, were payable on demand.
of 25 million for this purpose since May 2011.
Although As at the same dates, the Groups ratio of net loans to BNB has received a temporary waiver effective until amounts due to customers was 114.8%, 95.7%, and 1 January 2014 in respect of this breach, there is no 116.8%, respectively.
In terms of current and short-term assurance that BNB will be able to comply with the liquidity, the Group is exposed to the risk of unexpected, minimum level of regulatory capital required by NBRB by rapid withdrawal of deposits by its customers in large 1 January 2014, or that it will be able to obtain a further volumes.
Circumstances in which customers are more likely waiver from the NBRB thereafter.
For further information to rapidly withdraw deposits in large volumes include a see Currency fluctuation have affected, and may continue severe economic downturn, a loss in consumer confidence, to affect, the Group.
If BNBs level of regulatory capital an erosion of trust in financial institutions, or a period of remains below the minimum level required by the NBRB social, economic or political instability.
By way of example, after the temporary waiver expires and no new waiver is the Group experienced a higher than usual volume of obtained, the NBRB may revoke BNBs licence to accept customer withdrawals in the period following the 2008 retail deposits.
As at 31 December 2012, BNB had Conflict.
See Political and governmental instability in GEL 49.7 million in deposits from individuals, representing Georgia could have an adverse effect on the local economy 1.9% of the Groups total customer deposits and 1.1% of total liabilities.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 51 Performance: Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Save for BNB not having the minimum level of regulatory timing for the implementation of such liquidity framework.
capital required by the NBRB in order to hold retail There can be no assurance that the current regulatory deposits, the Group is not in breach of any applicable environment in which the Group operates will not be capital adequacy or regulatory ratios and the Board subject to significant change in the future, including believes that the Group overall has adequate capital for at changeas a result of a change in government in Georgia least the next 12 to 18 months.
However, the Groups ability orBelarus, or that the Group will be able to comply with any to comply with applicable capital adequacy and regulatory or all resulting regulations.
See Political and governmental ratios could be affected by a number of factors, some of stability in Georgia could have an adverse effect on the which are beyond the Groups control, including: local economy and the Group.
an increase of the Banks risk-weighted assets: The Group is subject to operational risk inherent in the Groups ability to raise capital: its business activities losses resulting from a deterioration in the Groups asset The Group is subject to the risk of incurring losses or quality, a reduction in income levels, an increase in unduecosts due to the inadequacies or failure of internal expenses or a combination of all of the above: processes or systems or human error, or from errors made a decline in the values of the Groups securities portfolio: during the execution or performance of operations, clerical changes in accounting rules or in the guidelines regarding or record-keeping errors, business disruptions caused by the calculation of the capital adequacy ratios: and various factors such as software or hardware failures and increases in minimum capital adequacy ratios imposed communication breakdowns, failure to execute outsourced by the NBG.
activities, criminal activities including credit fraud and electronic crimes, unauthorised transactions, robbery Failure to maintain the minimum capital adequacy and anddamage to assets.
otherregulatory ratios may have a material adverse effecton the Group.
Moreover, a breach of regulatory Although the Board believes that the Groups risk management requirements relating to the minimum capital adequacy policies and procedures which are designed to identify and andother regulatory ratios may result in entities in the analyse relevant risks to the Groups business, prescribe Group being subject to regulatory or administrative appropriate limits to various risk areas and monitor the level and sanctions, which could impact the Groups ability to incidence of such risks on an on-going basis are adequate and conduct its business, result in an increase in the operating that the Group is currently in compliance in all material respects costs of the Group and loss of reputation which could have with all laws, standards and recommendations applicable to the a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition.
Group, any failure of the Groups risk management system to detect unidentified or unanticipated risks, or to correct The Groups businesses are subject to substantial operational risks, or any failure of third parties adequately regulation and oversight and future changes in toperform outsourced activities could have a material adverse regulation, fiscal or other policies are unpredictable effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results Currently, the Bank is required to comply with Georgian of operations.
In addition to mandatory capital Risks affecting the Groups adequacy ratios, the NBG is authorised to set lending limits  and other economic ratios in Georgia, with which the Bank The Groups insurance subsidiary, Aldagi BCI, issubject is required to comply.
Under Georgian banking regulations, to the risks inherent in the insurance industry the Bank is required to, among other things, comply with minimum reserve requirements and mandatory financial Aldagi BCI, operates in the property and casualty, life and ratios and file periodic reports.
In addition to its banking health insurance industry.
Inthe ordinary course of business, operations, the Group also provides other regulated Aldagi BCI seeks to reduce losses that may arise from financial services and offers financing products, including catastrophes or other events through reinsurance.
Under brokerage and pension fund operations, as well as such reinsurance arrangements, reinsurers assume a portion insurance and healthcare products through its insurance of the losses and related expenses, however, Aldagi BCI and healthcare subsidiary and services that are subject to remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured.
Additionally, the business, Consequently, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not financial condition and results of operations of the Groups eliminate Aldagi BCIs obligation to pay under its insurance activities in Belarusare affected by legal regulations, policy for losses insured, which could cause a material instructions and recommendations, including those issued increase in Aldagi BCIs liabilities and a reduction in its by the NBRB andthe NBG, including those which seek to profitability.
Moreover, Aldagi BCI is subject to its reinsurers implement Basel III into national law.
See The Group is credit risk and solvency and their willingness to make subject tocertain regulatory ratios.
payments under the terms of reinsurance arrangements with respect to its ability to recover amounts due from them.
Future changes in regulation, fiscal or other policies are unpredictable and there is often a delay between the announcement of a change and the publication of detailed rules relating to such change.
For example, the NBG has indicated that it is considering introducing a new liquidity framework in Georgia but has yet to confirm the details or 52 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Although Aldagi BCI adheres to strict reinsurance policies and Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect periodically evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers to onthe financial condition and operating results of m2 Real minimise its exposure to significant losses from reinsurer Estate which may have an adverse effect on the Groups insolvencies, reinsurers may become financially unsound by financial condition and results of operations.
the time their financial obligations become due.
The inability of Other risks affecting the Group any reinsurer to meet its financial obligations to Aldagi BCI The Group may not successfully implement its could negatively impact Aldagi BCIs financial condition and strategy results of operations.
In addition, the availability, amount and The Group aims to achieve long-term sustainable growth cost of reinsurance depend on general market conditions and profitability through a secure, modern and universal which may fluctuate.
Reinsurance may not be available to banking model, as well as to maintain and enhance its Aldagi BCI at commercially reasonable rates, or at all, and leading market position in Georgia.
In addition, the Groups any decrease in the amount of Aldagi BCIs reinsurance will strategy is to diversify its business through the addition increase its risk of loss.
of businesses that have strong synergies with its banking In accordance with industry practices and accounting operations.
Furthermore, the Bank is concentrating on regulatory requirements, Aldagi BCI establishes reserves the Georgian market and the Banks subsidiary, Joint for reported claims, incurred but not reported claims and Stock Company BG Capital BG Capital, has exited unearned premiums.
Reserves do not represent an exact from its brokerage operations in Ukraine and Belarus.
calculation of liability, but instead represent estimates In addition, the Group intends to exit from its other of what the ultimate settlement and administration of non-core operations, including through the sale of Liberty claims will cost based on an assessment of facts and Consumer and its interest in BNB.
The Group may seek to circumstances then known, review of historical settlement pursue selective acquisitions in Georgia.
patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity, frequency There can be no assurance that the Group will be able of claims, legal theories of liability and other factors.
There toachieve its major strategic objectives, including in can be no assurance that actual claims will not materially respectof its synergistic businesses, such as insurance exceed its claims reserves and have a material effect on andhealthcare, which may be affected by market its financial condition and results of operations.
conditions, potential legal and regulatory impediments and The Groups real estate subsidiary, m2 Real Estate, other factors, or that it will be able to exit from its non-core is subject to the risks of developing and selling operations at a satisfactory price, or at all.
Any failure by real estate theGroup to achieve its strategic objectives could have The Groups real estate subsidiary m2 Real Estate, is amaterial adverse impact on the Groups reputation, primarily engaged in developing affordable residential business, financial condition and results of operations.
properties for sale and rent.
Real estate property The Group faces competition investments are subject to varying degrees of risk In recent years the Georgian banking sector has become which affect the level of income from the value of increasingly competitive.
According to the NBG, as at properties including: December 2012 there were 20 commercial banks, of which changes in the Georgian economic climate: 18 are foreign controlled.
The Group competes with a local conditions such as a surplus of similar properties number of these banks, including TBC Bank, ProCredit ora reduction in demand for the property: Bank, Bank Republic and VTB Georgia.
In particular, as the attractiveness of the property to tenants and ProCredit Bank has a large market share in respect of SME purchasers: and micro finance loans, the Group faces competition from occupancy rates and the ability to collect rent ProCredit Bank in relation to SME and micro financing in fromtenants: Georgia.
TBC Bank and Bank Republic are the Banks laws, governmental regulations, including environmental principal competitors in the corporate sector.
In addition, regulation, tax laws and insurance: and both the mortgage market and the market for the provision acts of nature, such as earthquakes, floods and other of financial services to high net worth individuals are highly extreme weather events that may damage the property.
competitive in Georgia, with some competitors in the mortgage market implementing aggressive pricing policies In addition, m2 Real Estates projects are subject to the in order to retain or build their market share.
Additionally, in general risks associated with construction and Belarus, the Group competes with a wide range of local development, including: including state-owned and international banks.
cost overruns due to increased material, labour or There can be no assurance that the current regulatory othercosts, which could make completion of the environment in which the Group operates in respect of projectunprofitable: competition and anti-monopoly matters will not be subject the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, required to significant change in the future.
Anti-monopoly matters zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other are currently handled by the NBG.
However, as part of the governmental permits and authorisations, which could Georgian Governments anti-monopoly policies, it may, in result in increased costs and could require m2 Real the future, seek to legislate or regulate competition and Estate to abandon a project entirely: and m2 Real Estate may be unable to complete construction and leasing of a property on schedule.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 53 Performance: Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued anti-monopoly matters in the Georgian banking industry The Groups insurance policies may not cover, and as part of any such changes, it is possible that antior fully cover, certain types of losses monopoly regulation could be enforced by a governmental The Group generally maintains insurance policies covering agency other than NBG.
The Group cannot predict whether its assets, operations and certain employees in line with Parliament will seek to do this, or if they did, what such laws general business practices in Georgia.
The Group seeks or regulations would be.
In addition, theGroup cannot to insure against a range of risks including fire, lightning, predict whether it would be able to comply with any or all flooding, theft, vandalism and third-party liability.
The Group such laws or regulations.
also maintains Bankers Blanket Bond and directors and officers liability insurance.
However, there can be no In addition, although there are currently no anti-monopoly assurance that all types of potential losses are insured or regulations in Georgia that establish market share limits, that policy limits would be adequate to cover them.
Any there can be no assurance that such anti-monopoly uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits could limitations will not be introduced in Georgia in the future.
adversely affect the Groups existing operations and could Given the current high market share maintained by the have an adverse effect on the Groups financial condition Group, the introduction of any anti-monopoly restrictions and results of operations.
may have an effect on the growth rates of the Group, restrict the Groups ability to make future acquisitions, The Group faces certain risks associated with orlead to the Group being compulsorily required to sell conducting international operations some of its assets or exit or reduce business areas.
The Group has historically made investments in Ukraine and Belarus.
The Groups financial results in 2009 were Increased competition may have a negative impact on adversely affected by a goodwill write-down in the amount theGroups ability to sustain its margin and fee levels, of GEL 73.1 million, predominantly due to the write-off of particularly if the Groups competitors possess greater the entire goodwill associated with BG Bank, as a result of financial resources especially in the case of banks with a weak economic environment in Ukraine and high loan and foreign capital investment or banks which are branches finance lease receivables impairment charges in respect of ofnon-resident foreign banks, by way of access to funding BG Bank in 2008 and 2009.
In February 2011, the Group from foreign capital or their parent entity, access to disposed of its 80% interest in BG Bank.
The Groups lower-cost funding and a broader offering of products financial results in2011 were adversely affected by a thanthe Group, or if the Groups competitors merged goodwill write down inthe amount of GEL 23.4 million, due tosignificantly enhance their financial resources, access to the write off of theentire goodwill associated with BNB, tofunding and product offerings.
Unlike most of its as a result of a material devaluation of the Belarusian competitors, the Group has a relatively wide shareholder Rouble.
For further information, see Currency fluctuations base and does not have an international financial institution have affected andmay continue to affect the Group.
In 2008 and 2009, the Groups financing costs increased which in turn had a negative As part of its revised strategy to concentrate on the Georgian impact on the net interest income earned by the Group market the Group disposed of an 80% equity interest in dueto, among other things, increasing interest rates on BG Bank in respect of which the remaining GEL 7.6 million bank deposits resulting from increasing competition in the US$ 4.6 million instalment of the purchase price has been deposit market.
In addition, increasing competition could fully provisioned and written off as of 31 December 2012. lead to significant pressure on the Groups market share.
The Group will continue to seek to exit from its international Increasing competition in the banking industry has already operations including its interest in BG Bank and, in due led to and may, in the future, continue to lead to increased course, BNB at an appropriate time.
While it holds these pricing pressures on the Groups products and services, assets, the Group will continue to be subject to risks relating which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups to these operations including certain political and economic business financial condition and results of operations.
risks, compliance risks and foreign currency exchange risks, as well as the risk of failure to market adequately to potential The Group depends on its key management and customers in other countries.
Any failure to manage such qualified personnel risks may cause the Group to incur increased liabilities The Groups current senior management team includes a which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups number of persons that the Board believes contribute business, financial condition and results of operations.
significant experience and expertise in the banking and other industries in which the Group operates.
The Groups ability to continue to retain, motivate and attract qualified and experienced banking and management personnel is vital to the Groups business.
There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to successfully recruit and retain the necessary qualified personnel.
The loss or diminution in the services of members of the Groups seniormanagement team or an inability to recruit, train or retain necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
54 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information If the Group fails to comply with any applicable generally.
A new Tax Code was adopted in Georgia on regulations relating to, or the Group is associated 17 September 2010 and came into effect on 1 January 2011. with, money laundering or terrorist financing, this Differing opinions regarding the interpretation of various could have an adverse effect on the Group provisions exist both among and within governmental Although the Group has implemented comprehensive ministries and organisations, including the tax authorities, anti-money laundering AML, know-your-customer, creating uncertainties, inconsistencies and areas of conflict.
know your corresponding bank and know your employee While the new Tax Code provides for the Georgian tax policies, and is in the process of implementing such policies authorities to provide advance tax rulings on tax issues raised, throughout its financial subsidiaries including insurance and thereby reducing the uncertainty regarding interpretation, it is brokerage subsidiaries, which are monitored by its AML possible that the relevant authorities could take differing Compliance Department, and adheres to all requirements positions with regard to interpretative issues, which may result under applicable legislation aimed at preventing it being used in the Group facing tax adjustments or fines.
In addition, there as a vehicle to facilitate money laundering, there can be no can be no assurance that the current tax laws or government assurance that these measures will be effective.
If the Group tax policies will not be subject to change in the future, fails to comply with timely reporting requirements or other including any changes introduced as a result of a change AML regulations or is associated with money laundering or of government.
See Political and governmental instability terrorist financing, thiscould have a material adverse effect in Georgia could have an adverse effect on the local economy on the Groups business, financial condition and results of and the Group.
Such changes could include the introduction operations.
In addition, involvement in such activities may of new taxes, an increase in the tax rates applicable to the carry criminal orregulatory fines and sanctions.
Group or its customers or the introduction of a bank levy.
Any such changes in the tax laws or governmental tax policies The uncertainties of the judicial system in Georgia, may have a material adverse effect on the Group.
In addition, or any arbitrary or discriminatory state action taken to varying degrees, the same uncertainties of the tax system in Georgia in the future, may have a material adverse in Georgia apply to Belarus.
effect on the local economy, which could and in turn, have an adverse effect on the Group There are additional risks associated with investing Georgia is still developing an adequate legal framework in emerging markets such as Georgia required for the proper functioning of a market economy.
Emerging markets may have higher volatility, limited liquidity, For example, in Georgia, several fundamental civil, criminal, a narrower export base and are subject to more frequent tax, administrative and commercial laws have only recently changes in the political, economic, social, legal and regulatory become effective.
The recent nature of much of Georgian environment than more mature markets.
Emerging economies legislation and the rapid evolution of the Georgian legal are subject to rapid change and are particularly vulnerable system place the quality and the enforceability of laws in to market conditions and economic downturns elsewhere doubt and result in ambiguities and inconsistencies in in the world.
In addition, international investors reactions to events occurring In addition, the court system in Georgia is understaffed in one emerging market country or region sometimes appear andhas been undergoing significant reforms.
Judges and to demonstrate a contagion effect, in which an entire region courts in Georgia are generally less experienced in the area or class of investment is disfavoured by investors.
If such a of business and corporate law than is the case in certain contagion effect occurs, Georgia could be adversely affected by other countries, particularly in Europe and the United negative economic or financial developments in other emerging States.
Most court decisions are not easily available to the market countries.
Georgia has been adversely affected by general public, and enforcement of court judgments may, contagion effects in the past, including following the 1998 inpractice, be difficult in Georgia.
The uncertainties of the Russian financial crisis and the more recent global financial Georgian judicial system could have a negative effect on crisis.
No assurance can be given that it will not be affected theGeorgian economy, could have a material adverse by similar effects in the future.
effect on the Groups business, financial condition and Financial or political instability in emerging markets also tends results of operations.
In addition, to varying degrees, the to have a material adverse effect on the capital markets of same uncertainties of the judicial system in Georgia as emerging economies and the wider economy asinvestors discussed above apply to Belarus.
generally move their money to more developed markets, Uncertainties in the tax system in Georgia may result in which may be considered to be more stable.
These risks theGroup facing tax adjustments or fines in the future and may be compounded by incomplete, unreliable, unavailable there may be changes in current tax laws and policies or untimely economic and statistical data onGeorgia.
In Georgia, tax laws have not been in force for significant periods of time compared to more developed market economies, and often result in unclear or non-existent implementing regulations.
Moreover, such tax laws are subject to frequent changes and amendments, which can result in unusual complexities for the Group and its business Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 55
