Risk management Operational risk management People: Inadequate people capabilities, and or performance reward Operational risk management overview audited structures, and or inappropriate behaviours: Operational Risk is defined as the risk of direct or indirect impacts Premises & security: Unavailability of premises to meet business resulting from human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes demand and or safe working environments, and inadequate and systems or external events.
Recognising the impact operational protection of physical assets, employees and customers against risk may have on the Group a new Board Conduct, Reputation and external threats: Operational Risks Committee will be created in 2013.
Regulatory: Failure or inability to comply fully with the laws, The management of Operational Risk has two key objectives: regulations or codes applicable specifically to the financial services industry: To minimise the impact of losses suffered in the normal course of business expected losses and to avoid or reduce the likelihood of Taxation: Failure to comply with tax laws and practice which could suffering an extreme or unexpected loss: and lead to financial penalties, additional tax charges or reputational damage: To improve the effective management of the Barclays Group and strengthen its brand and external reputation.
Technology: Failure to develop and deploy secure, stable and reliable technology solutions: and Barclays is committed to the management and measurement of Transaction operations: Failure in the management of critical operational risk and was granted a waiver by the FSA to operate an transaction processes.
Advanced Measurement Approach AMA for operational risk under Basel 2, which commenced in January 2008.
The majority of the Group These risks may result in financial and or non-financial impacts calculates regulatory capital using AMA, however, in specific areas we including legal regulatory breaches or reputational damage.
apply the Basic Indicator Approach.
In certain joint ventures and For more information on Legal, Regulatory and Taxation risks associates, Barclays may not be able to apply the AMA.
Areas where the Group is working towards the rollout of AMA and the The Operational Risk Framework comprises a number of elements Basic Indicator Approach is applied are: the Africa RBB businesses, which allow Barclays to manage and measure its Operational Risk including Barclays Bank Mozambique and National Bank of Commerce profile and to calculate the amount of Operational Risk capital that Tanzania : Barclays Bank PLC Pakistan: Barclays Investment and Loans Barclays needs to hold to absorb potential losses.
The minimum, India Limited: the new to bank business activities acquired from mandatory requirements for each of these elements are set out in the Lehman Brothers: and the portfolios of assets purchased from Group Operational Risk policies.
This framework is implemented across Woolworths Financial Services in South Africa, Citi Cards Portugal and the Group: vertically, through the organisational structure with all Italy, Standard Life Bank, MBNA Corporate Cards, Upromise, RCI, Egg businesses required to implement and operate an Operational Risk Cards, EdCon, SallreMae and Ameriprice.
framework that meets, as a minimum, the requirements detailed in these operational risk policies: and horizontally, with the Group Key Risk Barclays works to benchmark its internal operational risk practices with Owners required to monitor information relevant to their Key Risk from peer banks and to drive the development of advanced operational risk each Operational Risk framework element.
Barclays operates with a robust system of internal control that seeks Organisation and structure to ensure that business is transacted and risk taken without exposure Operational Risk is one of four Principal Risks in the Barclays Principal to unacceptable potential losses or reputational damage.
To this end, Risks Policy and comprises a number of specific Key Risks defined as Barclays has implemented the Group Internal Control and Assurance follows: Framework GICAF which is aligned with the internationally CyberSecurity: Risk of loss or detriment to Barclays business and recognised Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway customers as a result of actions committed or facilitated through the Commission Framework COSO.
use of networked information systems: The prime responsibility for the management of operational risk and External supplier: Inadequate selection and ongoing management of the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and external suppliers: functional units where the risk arises.
Operational risk managers are Financial reporting: Reporting mis-statement or omission within widely distributed throughout the Group and support these areas, external financial or regulatory reporting: assisting line managers in understanding and managing their risks.
Fraud: Dishonest behaviour with the intent to make a gain or cause a The Operational Risk Director or equivalent for each business is loss to others: responsible for ensuring the implementation of and compliance with Information: Inadequate protection of Barclays information in Group Operational Risk policies.
accordance with its value and sensitivity: The Group Operational Risk Director is responsible for establishing, Legal: Failure to identify and manage legal risks: owning and maintaining an appropriate Group-wide Operational Risk Product: Inadequate design, assessment and testing of products Framework and for overseeing the portfolio of Operational Risk across services: the Group.
Payment process: Failure in operation of payments processes: 342 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information The Operational Risk Committee ORC is the senior executive body Key indicators responsible for the oversight and challenge of Operational risk in Key Indicators KIs are metrics which allow Barclays to monitor its Barclays.
Group Operational Risk Executive Committee GOREC is a operational risk profile.
KIs include measurable thresholds that reflect sub-committee of the ORC, the output of which is presented to the the risk appetite of the business.
KIs are monitored to alert Board Risk Committee BRC.
management when risk levels exceed acceptable ranges or risk appetite levels and drive timely decision making and actions.
In addition, Governance and Control Committees G&CCs in each business monitor control effectiveness.
The Group G&CC receives Key Risk Scenarios reports from these committees and considers Group-significant control By combining data from risk events, risk assessments and key issues and their remediation.
The Group G&CC presents to the Board indicators with that from audit findings, expert management Audit Committee BAC.
judgement and other internal data sources, Barclays is able to generate Key Risk Scenarios KRSs.
These scenarios identify the most significant operational risks across the Group.
The KRSs are validated at business Businesses are required to report their Operational risks on both a regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the and Group level to ensure that they appropriately reflect the level of operational risk the business faces.
material risks to their business objectives and the effectiveness of key controls, control issues of Group-level significance, operational risk events and a review of scenarios and capital.
Specific reports are Barclays shares and receives an anonymous sub-set of KRS information prepared on a regular basis for ORC, BRC and BAC.
with member banks of ORX in order to compare and contrast scenario analysis with peers.
The Internal Audit function provides further independent review and challenge of the Groups operational risk management controls, Insurance processes and systems and reports to the Board and senior As part of its risk management approach, the Group also uses management.
insurance to mitigate the impact of some operational risks.
Operational risk appetite Operational risk management framework Barclays approach to determining appetite for Operational risk The Barclays Operational risk framework is a key component of GICAF combines both quantitative measures and qualitative judgement, in and has been designed to meet a number of external governance order to best reflect the nature of non financial risks.
requirements including Basel, the Capital Requirements Directive and Turnbull guidance as an evaluation framework for the purposes of The monitoring and tracking of Operational risk measures is Section 404 a of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
It also supports the supplemented with qualitative review and discussion at senior Sarbanes-Oxley requirements.
management executive committees on the action being taken to improve controls and reduce risk to an acceptable level.
The Operational risk framework includes the following elements: Operational risk appetite is aligned to the Groups Risk Appetite Risk assessments Framework.
Barclays identifies and assesses all material risks within each business and evaluates the key controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Reporting Managers in the businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify The ongoing monitoring and reporting of Operational risk is a key risks, evaluate the effectiveness of key controls in place and assess component of an effective Operational Risk Framework.
Reports are whether the risks are effectively managed within business risk appetite.
used by the Operational risk function and by business management to The businesses are then able to make decisions on what, if any, action understand, monitor, manage and control operational risks and losses.
is required to reduce the level of risk to Barclays.
These risk assessments are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that each Operational risk measurement business continually understands the risks it faces.
The Operational risk capital model uses the outputs of the risk management tools to measure Barclays operational risk exposure, and Risk events in particular, Key Risk Scenarios.
The model estimates the frequency An operational risk event is any circumstance where, through the lack and severity of operational risk losses for each risk type to provide a or failure of a control, Barclays has actually, or could have, made a loss.
distribution of potential losses over a year for Barclays as a whole.
This The definition includes situations in which Barclays could have made a process takes into account the possibility of correlations i. e. impacts loss, but in fact made a gain, as well as incidents resulting in from different risks occurring together.
The model generates a reputational damage or regulatory impact only.
regulatory capital requirement, which is determined to a level of 99.9% confidence.
Once the overall level of regulatory capital for the Group A standard threshold is used across the Group for reporting risk events has been established it is allocated, on a risk sensitive basis, to and as part of our analysis we seek to identify where improvements are businesses.
needed to processes or controls, to reduce the recurrence and or magnitude of risk events.
Barclays also uses a database of external risk events which are publicly available and is a member of the Operational risk data eXchange ORX, a not-for-profit association of international banks formed to share anonymous loss data information.
Barclays uses this external loss information to support and inform risk identification, assessment and measurement.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 343 Tough questions, honest answers G iven the ambitions for your strategy, when will the dividend increase?
We are aiming to drive a greater balance between staff and shareholder returns, accelerating our progressive dividend policy from 2014 and targeting a payout ratio to shareholders of 30% over time.
See page 74 for further details on our dividend and distribution of earnings.
344 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Shareholder information Resources for shareholders including the Company articles of association, classes of shares and contact details for shareholder enquiries.
346 Shareholder information 350 Shareholder enquiries 351 Index 353 Your Barclays Shareholding barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 345
