Risk management Barclays risk management strategy These disclosures are unaudited unless otherwise stated Barclays risk management strategy The following pages provide a comprehensive overview of Barclays approach to risk management and more specific information on policies that the Group determines to be of particular significance in the current operating environment.
Barclays risk management strategy audited Our risk culture Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a well-established We have defined our Purpose as helping people achieve their strategy to deliver them, through core risk management processes.
ambitions in the right way.
This is underpinned by five core values: Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence and Stewardship.
At a strategic level, our risk management objectives are to: Barclays risk culture is based on a close alignment with our businesses Identify the Groups significant risks: to support understanding, trust and openness together with clear independence to ensure strong challenge, rigorous, analytical and Formulate the Groups risk appetite and ensure that business profile and plans are consistent with it: objective decision making and consistency across the bank.
Risk is a shared responsibility between business and risk teams with the Optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible business operating as a first line of defence.
to the business, while establishing strong and independent review and challenge structures: This culture is operationalised and embedded in our organisational Ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by structure.
Independent risk teams are in place within each of our major businesses to support close working relationships with and knowledge effective risk infrastructure: of business teams taking on the risk.
These teams ultimately report to a Manage risk profile to ensure that specific financial deliverables Chief Risk Officer within each business who in turn reports both to the remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions: and Group Chief Risk Officer and their business Chief Executive.
Help executives improve the control and co-ordination of risk taking A separate Group Risk team, including individually identified Principal across the business.
Risk Owners for each Principal Risk, strengthens oversight and looks across the Group to ensure that for each Principal Risk, an overall risk The Groups approach is to provide direction on: understanding the appetite has been clearly defined and that required standards of risk principal risks to achieving Group strategy: establishing risk appetite: management are being consistently delivered.
and establishing and communicating the risk management framework.
The process is then broken down into five steps: identify, assess, control, report and manage challenge.
Each of these steps is broken Following operational events that were identified in 2012, the Board of Barclays is undertaking a review of its business practices the Salz down further, to establish end-to-end activities within the risk management process and the infrastructure needed to support it Review and culture.
Barclays Board and Executive Committee will consider the reviews recommendations carefully, with the intention of see panel below.
The Groups risk management strategy is broadly unchanged in 2012. implementing them in full.
Barclays will publish an account of how it specifically intends to implement them a short time after the conclusion of the review.
The broader work at Barclays oriented at changing the Banks culture will be particularly informed by the Reviews recommendations.
Steps Activity Identify Establish the process for identifying and understanding business-level risks.
Assess Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Control Establish key control processes and practices, including limit structures, impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Manage and Challenge Review and challenge all aspects of the Groups risk profile.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
314 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Governance structure at Group level as at 31 December 2012 Board oversight Board Approves overall Group Risk Appetite Board Corporate Board Audit Board Risk Board Remuneration Board Citizenship Governance and Committee Committee Committee Committee Nominations Committee Reviews Board Considers the adequacy Reviews the Group Reviews remuneration Reviews and approves composition and and effectiveness of the risk profile principles and approach overall Citizenship recommends new Group Control Framework Approves the Group Approves remuneration strategy and associated appointments Reviews reports on Control Framework based on risk-adjusted policies Considers succession control issues of Approves minimum performance Monitors, considers and plans for Chairman, Group-level significance control requirements evaluates reputational Chief Executive and for principal risks risk issues and exposures Executive Committee Oversees annual Board performance review Authority controls appetite AssuranceReporting and control Governance and Chief Executive Control Committee Group Executive Committee Reviews the adequacy Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of businesses and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework Monitors compliance with the Framework including Financial Risk Treasury Operational Risk Tax Risk Reputation remediation of significant Committee Committee Committee Committee Council control issues Reviews reports on Monitors risk Sets policy controls Reviews, challenges Monitors the tax Assesses quality control issues of profile in respect for liquidity, maturity and recommends risk profile in of the application Group-level significance to risk appetite transformation and appetite for respect of risk of the control Debates and agrees structural interest Operational Risk appetite framework actions on the rate exposure Monitors risk profile Assesses the quality Recommends risk financial risk profile Monitors the Groups against risk appetite of the application appetite and sets and risk strategy liquidity and interest for relevant Key Risk of the control policies to ensure across the Group rate maturity types framework consistent Considers issues mismatch Reviews the Considers issues adherence to escalated by Risk Monitors usage Groups aggregate that arise as a result that appetite Type Heads and of regulatory and Operational Risk of developing trends Regularly reviews Business Risk economic capital profile known and Directors Oversees the Reviews and emerging management of the challenges reputational risks Groups capital plan presentations on to consider if action individual Key Risk is required types Proactively considers reputation issues that arise as a result of business activity and external environment Credit Market Funding Operational Risk Risk Risk Risk Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework Assesses management assurance processes barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 315 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued Group Risk is also aligning its vision to support the Chief Executives Summaries of the relevant business, professional and risk management vision of becoming the Go-To bank for all its stakeholders.
Group experience of the Directors of the Board are given on pages 67-69.
The Risks mission is to deliver effective and then efficient risk management terms of reference for each of the principal Board Committees are that is consistent with Barclays commercial objectives, through available from the Corporate Governance section at: http: group.
providing functional capability and control as well as independent and barclays.
com About-us Management-structure Corporateappropriate challenge at every level, from a single transaction to an governance.
aggregate portfolio view, while ensuring no surprises.
To achieve this mission the following guiding principles will be followed: The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the Executive Committee and has overall day-to-day accountability for risk management under delegated Effectiveness and expertise: authority from the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Executive Operational excellence: must consult the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee in respect of the Chief Risk Officers performance appraisal and compensation as Transparency, consistency and control: well as all appointments to or departures from the role.
Balance risk and reward: and In order to strengthen the Board-level governance over conduct risk Independence.
and reputation matters we have created a Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee in 2013.
As a consequence the Board Assigning responsibilities audited Risk Committee will have oversight of credit, market and funding risk matters and will be renamed the Board Financial Risk Committee.
Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group, from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the The Chief Risk Officer manages the independent Group Risk function organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays and chairs the Financial Risk Committee and the Operational Risk distributes these responsibilities so that risk return decisions are taken Committee, which monitor the Groups financial and non-financial risk at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business, and profile relative to established risk appetite.
Reporting to the Chief Risk subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
The Officer, and working in the Group Risk function, are risk-type heads for responsibilities for effective review and challenges reside with senior retail credit risk, wholesale credit risk, market risk, operational risk and managers, risk oversight committees, the independent Group Risk fraud risk.
Along with their teams, the risk-type heads are responsible function, the Board Risk Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
for establishing a Group-wide framework for oversight of the risks and controls of their risk type.
These risk-type teams liaise with each The Board is responsible for approving risk appetite see page 39, business as part of the monitoring and management processes.
which is the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives.
The Chief Risk Officer regularly presents a report to In addition, each business has an embedded risk management the Board summarising developments in the risk environment and function, headed by a Business Chief Risk Officer BCRO.
BCROs and performance trends in the key portfolios.
The Board is also responsible their teams are responsible for assisting business heads in the for the Internal Control and Assurance Framework Group Control identification and management of their business risk profiles and for Framework.
It oversees the management of the most significant risks implementing appropriate controls.
These teams also assist Group Risk through the regular review of risk exposures and related key controls.
in the formulation of Group policies and their implementation across Executive management responsibilities relating to this are set via the the businesses.
The business risk directors report jointly to their Groups Principal Risks Policy.
respective business heads and to the Chief Risk Officer.
The Board Risk Committee BRC monitors the Groups risk profile The risk type heads within the central Group Risk function and the against the agreed appetite.
Where actual performance differs from BCROs within the businesses report to the Chief Risk Officer and are expectations, the actions being taken by management are reviewed to members of the Financial Risk Committee or Operational Risk ensure that the BRC is comfortable with them.
After each meeting, the Committee as appropriate.
Chair of the BRC prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board.
Barclays first established a separate Board Risk Committee in 1999 and For further details on the management of each of the Principal Risks, all members are non-executive directors.
The Finance Director and the see pages 321-343.
Chief Risk Officer attend each meeting as a matter of course.
The BRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk methodologies and Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk the Groups risk profile including the key issues affecting each business management and the control environment.
Its objective is to provide portfolio and forward risk trends.
The Committee also commissions reliable, valued and timely assurance to the Board and Executive in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are presented by the Management over the effectiveness of controls, mitigating current and Chief Risk Officer or senior risk managers in the businesses.
The Chair evolving high risks and in so doing enhancing the controls culture of the Committee prepares a statement each year on its activities see within the Group.
The Board Audit Committee reviews and approves pages 56-58.
Internal Audits plans and resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
An assessment by external advisers is also carried out The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on control issues periodically.
of significance and a half-yearly review of the adequacy of impairment allowances, which it reviews relative to the risk inherent in the portfolios, In addition to the committees shown in the chart, there is a Board the business environment, the Groups policies and methodologies and Citizenship Committee which reviews emerging issues with potentially the performance trends of peer banks.
The Chair of the Board Audit significant reputational impact and looks at contribution to growth in Committee also sits on the BRC.
See pages 52-55 for additional details the real economy, creating jobs, supporting sustainable growth and on the membership and activities of the Board Audit Committee.
supporting communities through investment programmes and efforts of employees.
The Board Remuneration Committee receives a detailed report on risk management performance from the BRC which is considered in the setting of performance objectives in the context of incentive packages.
See pages 72-103 for additional details on membership and activities of the Board Remuneration Committee.
316 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Principal Risks policy audited Risk management in the setting of strategy audited Risk management responsibilities are laid out in the Principal Risks The planning cycle is centred on the medium-term planning MTP policy, which covers the categories of risk in which Barclays has its process, performed once a year.
This sets out the Groups objectives in most significant actual or potential risk exposures.
detailed plans which take account of the likely business environment.
The risk functions at Group and business levels are heavily involved in this process.
The Principal Risks Framework: creates clear ownership and accountability: In addition to supporting transaction decisions, the measurement and control of credit, market, operational and other risks have considerable ensures the Groups most significant risk exposures are understood and managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite for financial influence on Barclays strategy.
The Board is solely responsible for approving the MTP, the associated risk appetite statement, and the risks and risk tolerances for non-financial risks : and capital plans.
As such, the business plans of Barclays must incur a level ensures regular reporting of both risk exposures and the operating of risk that falls within the Boards tolerance, or be modified effectiveness of controls.
The Board Risk Committee BRC has been in place since 1999 and is devoted to review the firms risk and make appropriate a Each Principal Risk comprises individual Key Risk Types.
The four recommendations to the Board.
For details of the activities of the Board Principal Risks are: Credit, Market, Funding and Operational, each and the BRC in 2012 see pages 42 and 56-58. owned by a senior executive within the Group Risk function known as the Group Principal Risk Owner.
The first three Principal Risks are risks The risk appetite and the Group-wide stress testing processes, that Barclays actively seeks to manage and have direct income described below, are closely linked to the MTP process and also implications.
The fourth Principal Risk relates to operational risks, support strategic planning and capital adequacy.
The risk appetite exposure to which arises directly from undertaking business processes process ensures that senior management and the Board understand in support of Barclays activities, and which the Group seeks to the Plans sensitivities to key risk types, and includes a set of mandate minimise.
There was no material change to this policy in 2012. and scale limits to ensure the Group stays within appetite.
Stress testing informs management on the impact to the business of detailed The five risk management steps required by the Principal Risks Policy scenarios.
Integral to the Group-wide stress testing process is a set of are: Identify, Assess, Control, Report, and Manage and Challenge see actions that management would take to mitigate the impact of a stress.
One of the main objectives of managing risk is to ensure that Barclays Each Key Risk is owned by a senior individual known as the Group Key achieves an adequate balance between capital requirements and Risk Owner who is responsible for proposing a risk appetite statement resources.
The capital planning cycle is fully integrated within strategic and managing the risk in line with the Principal Risks Policy.
includes the documentation, communication and maintenance of a risk control framework which makes clear, for every business across MTP process the firm, the mandated control requirements in managing exposures to The MTP process, performed annually, requires each business unit to that Key Risk.
These control requirements are given further present its plans for business performance over the coming three years.
specification, according to the business or risk type, to provide a Achieving the planned performance in each business is dependent complete and appropriate system of internal control.
upon the ability of the business to manage its risks.
It is an iterative process featuring weekly reviews at the most senior levels as the plan is Business function heads are responsible for obtaining ongoing updated until final agreement.
The output includes a detailed assurance that the key controls they have put in place to manage the statement of the Groups strategy over the medium-term, as well as risks to their business objectives are operating effectively.
reviews support the regulatory requirement for Barclays to make an annual external statement about its system of internal controls.
Risk managers support the MTP by providing robust review and challenge of the business plans to ensure that the financial projections Group Key Risk Owners report their assessments of the risk exposure are internally consistent: achievable given risk management capabilities and control effectiveness to Group-level oversight committees and and that they present a suitable balance between risk and reward.
This their assessments form the basis of the reports that go to the Board culminates in the Risk Executive Dialogue process in which the Chief Risk Committee see chart above : Risk Officer and senior management in each of our businesses discuss the findings from the risk reviews, and changes to the business plans Financial Risk Committee has oversight of Credit and Market Risks: are mandated as necessary.
Treasury Committee has oversight of Funding Risk: and, The business plans are prepared with reference to a consistent set of Operational Risk Committee has oversight of all Operational Risk economic assumptions which are reviewed within Group Risk to ensure types, with the exception of Tax Risk, which is primarily overseen by that they appropriately reflect emerging risk trends.
They are used as the Tax Risk Committee.
baseline scenarios in the stress testing and risk appetite processes.
Each Group Key Risk Owner also undertakes an annual programme of The output from the business plan forms the basis of all strategic risk-based conformance reviews.
In particular, the plans comprise projections of capital resources and requirements given profit generation, dividend policy and capital issuance.
Risk variables are also considered, most importantly in the forecasting of the Groups impairment charge, and in sensitivity analyses of the plans which include risk appetite and stress testing.
Note a Conduct Risk and Reputation Risk have been re-categorised as Principal Risks in 2013. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 317 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued Risk Appetite Express business objectives, under Plan Simulate risk performance under stress Manage and monitor risk metrics as part and Stressed conditions conditions to losses risk metrics under of tracking of forecasts throughout year, each scenario to be consistent with and report to the Board.
Implement strategic business objectives changes if forecasts are outside of acceptable range given current conditions Set Mandate and Scale limits to help ensure that maximum losses remain within acceptable levels Risk appetite To measure the risk entailed by the business plans, management Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk that Barclays is prepared to estimates potential earnings volatility from each business under sustain whilst pursuing its business strategy, recognising a range of various scenarios: possible outcomes as business plans are implemented.
Barclays through-the-cycle: the average losses based on measurements over framework combines a top-down view of its capacity to take risk with many years: a bottom-up view of the business risk profile associated with each business areas medium-term plans.
The appetite is ultimately 1 in 7 moderate loss: the worst level of losses out of a random approved by the Board.
sample of 7 years: and 1 in 25 severe loss: the worst level of losses out of a random sample Barclays has run a risk appetite process since 2004.
comprised of Financial Volatility and Mandate and Scale.
The strategy and business activities are reflected in key performance metrics, which These scenarios are defined more generically through a level of are dependent in large part on risk performance.
probability of occurrence rather than through a specific set of economic variables like in stress tests.
Financial Volatility Financial volatility is defined as the level of potential deviation from These potentially larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are expected financial performance that Barclays is prepared to sustain at illustrated in the risk appetite concepts chart below.
Since the level of relevant points on the risk profile.
When setting appetite, management loss at any given probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures and the Board articulate the Groups strategy and summarise objectives in each business, the statistical measurement for each key risk category in terms of key financial metrics.
The Groups risk profile is assessed via gives the Group clearer sight and better control of risk-taking a bottom-up analysis of the Groups business plans to establish the throughout the enterprise.
Specifically, this framework enables it to: volatility of the key metrics.
If the projections entail too high a level of risk i. e. breach the top-down financial objectives at the through-theimprove management confidence and debate regarding the Groups cycle, moderate or severe level, management will challenge each area risk profile: to re-balance the risk profile to bring the bottom-up risk appetite back re-balance the risk profile of the MTP where breaches are indicated, within top-down appetite.
Performance against risk appetite usage is thereby achieving a superior risk-return profile: measured and reported to the Executive Committee and the Board regularly throughout the year.
Our top-down appetite is quantified identify unused risk capacity, and thus highlight the need to identify through an array of financial performance and capital metrics which further profitable opportunities: and are reviewed on an annual basis.
For 2012, the strategic metrics in the improve executive management control and co-ordination of table below are set at three levels: budget, and stressed one in seven risk-taking across businesses.
Measure relevant Link between strategy and risk profile Risk appetite concepts diagram not to scale to strategy and risk Mean Profit before tax, Fundamental economic and business Loss Return on Equity, indicators, which best describe the focus of Return on RWAs our shareholders in terms of profitability and ability to use capital resources efficiently.
Expected Loss Moderate Loan loss rate LLR Describes our credit risk profile and whether Stress impairment is within our appetite.
Severe Stress Core Tier 1 and Monitors our capital adequacy in relation to Extreme Stress Leverage our capital plan.
Cash Dividends Measures the risks of not being able to Potential size of loss in one year continue paying appropriate cash dividends.
318 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport Probability of loss The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information In summary, the stress levels represent the risk tolerance of Barclays in Stress testing terms of its key objectives.
These objectives act as constraints on risk Group-wide stress tests are an integral part of the annual MTP process performance and imply maximum levels of acceptable losses that are and annual review of risk appetite to ensure that the Groups financial tracked quarterly and reported to the Board.
Any breaches must be position and risk profile provide sufficient resilience to withstand the approved and remedial actions mandated.
impact of severe economic stress.
Mandate and Scale The Board Risk Committee agrees the range of scenarios to be tested The second element to the setting of risk appetite in Barclays is an and the independent Group Risk function leads the process.
extensive system of Mandate and Scale limits, which is a risk Macroeconomic stress test scenarios are designed to be both severe management approach that seeks to formally review and control and plausible and are tested against the FSAs scenario framework to business activities to ensure that they are within Barclays mandate i. e. ensure that they are appropriately conservative.
aligned with expectations, and are of an appropriate scale relative to the risk and reward of the underlying activities.
Barclays achieves this The following diagram summarises the process for designing and by using limits and triggers to avoid concentrations which would be agreeing the scenarios to be run.
The process includes Group Risk out of line with external expectations, and which may lead to consultation with economists in the businesses.
This ensures relevance unexpected losses of a scale that would be detrimental to the stability of scenarios to our businesses and a consistent interpretation of the of the relevant business line or the Group.
These limits are set by the scenarios across the Group.
independent risk function, formally monitored each month and subject to Board-level oversight.
At the Group level, stress test scenarios capture a wide range of macroeconomic variables that are relevant to assess the impact of the For example, in our commercial property finance and construction stress scenario on our portfolios.
This includes for example, GDP, portfolios, a comprehensive series of limits are in place to control unemployment, asset prices, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
exposure within each business and geographic sector.
To ensure that Economic parameters are set using expert judgement and historical limits are aligned to the underlying risk characteristics, the Mandate and quantitative analysis to ensure coherence and appropriate severity.
and Scale limits differentiate between types of exposure.
There are, for example, individual limits for property investment and property The stress testing process is detailed and comprehensive using development, and for senior and subordinated lending.
bottom-up analysis performed by each of Barclays businesses.
It includes all aspects of the Groups balance sheet across all risk types Barclays uses the Mandate and Scale framework to: and is forward looking over a five year period.
Our stress testing approach combines running statistical models with expert judgement limit concentration risk: to ensure the results accurately reflect the impact of the stress.
keep business activities within Group and individual business mandate: The businesses stress test methodologies and results are subject to a detailed review and challenge both within the businesses including ensure activities remain of an appropriate scale relative to the review and sign-off by business Chief Risk Officers and by Head Office underlying risk and reward: and Functions.
The stress test results are presented for review by the ensure risk-taking is supported by appropriate expertise and Executive Committee and Board Risk Committee, and are also shared capabilities.
with the Board and the FSA.
The results of our H2 2012 internal Group-wide stress test exercise show that the Groups profit before tax As well as Group-level Mandate & Scale limits, further limits are set by remains positive under the modelled severe global stress scenario, with risk managers within each business unit, covering particular portfolios.
the Group remaining well capitalised above the required regulatory minimum level.
Interaction of risk appetite with business strategy The strategy and business activities are reflected in key performance A key objective of the Group-wide stress test process is to identify and metrics, which are dependent in large part on risk performance.
Risk document management actions that would be taken to mitigate the appetite, as described above, helps to ensure that the strategy is impact of stress.
The bottom-up process ensures all levels of adaptable to various degrees of financial stress.
management are informed of the impact of the stress scenarios and are aware of appropriate management actions to be taken when a Each year, our MTP process ensures that our appetite takes account of stress event occurs.
the strategy detailed on page 314.
In addition, the framework also includes reverse stress testing For further information on Risk Factors and the Operating and Business techniques which aim to identify the circumstances under which our business model would become no longer viable, leading to a significant Environment, refer to pages 108-115. change in business strategy.
Examples include extreme macroeconomic downturn scenarios such as a break-up of the Euro area or specific idiosyncratic events.
Stress Testing Group Risk develops Board Risk Committee Economic parameters Economic parameters Stress test scenarios scenario themes in provides input and set by Group Risk reviewed by economists and economic consultation with agrees on scenario within the businesses parameters issued economists within themes by Group Risk the businesses barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 319 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy continued Reverse stress testing is used to help support ongoing risk Indirect Risk: can arise when environmental issues may impact the management and is fully integrated into our risk appetite framework.
For instance, incremental costs may For example, our reverse stress testing methodology includes be incurred in upgrading a business operations to meet emerging identifying tail risks associated with specific low likelihood environmental regulations or tightening standards.
In other circumstances, and identifying appropriate mitigating actions.
circumstances, failure to meet those standards may lead to fines.
Environmental impacts on businesses may also include shifts in the Barclays also uses stress testing techniques at portfolio and product market demand for goods or services generated by our customers, or changing supply chain pressures.
Environmental considerations level to support risk management.
For example, portfolio management in the US cards business employs stressed assumptions of affecting our clients can be varied.
The bank has developed a series of environmental risk briefing notes, covering ten broad industry headings unemployment to determine profitability hurdles for new accounts.
In the UK mortgage business, affordability thresholds incorporate stressed ranging from Agriculture and Fisheries to Oil and Gas, from Mining and Metals to Utilities and Waste Management.
These briefing notes are estimates of interest rates.
In the Investment Bank, global scenario testing is used to gauge potential losses that could arise in conditions available to colleagues in business development and credit risk functions across the organisation, outlining the nature of of extreme market stress.
Stress testing is also conducted on positions in particular asset classes, including interest rates, commodities, environmental and social risks of which to be aware, as well as the factors which mitigate those risks.
equities, credit and foreign exchange.
Information on the Groups stress testing specifically relating to Reputation Risk: would arise causing damage to the Banks image, through association with clients, their transactions or projects if these liquidity risk is set out on pages 172-174.
Further information on market risk stress testing is provided on pages 156-157. are perceived by external stakeholders to be environmentally damaging.
Where the Bank is financing infrastructure projects which have potentially adverse environmental impacts the Groups Environmental risk Environmental and Social Impact Assessment policy will apply.
This Barclays has a dedicated Environmental Risk Management team which policy identifies the circumstances in which the Bank requires due is a part of the central Credit Risk Management function in Group Risk, diligence to include assessment of specialist environmental reports.
recognising that environment is a mainstream credit risk issue.
These reports will include consideration of a wide range of the projects Environmental issues are required considerations in credit risk potential impacts including on air, water and land quality, on assessment, and environmental risk policies are explicitly referenced in biodiversity issues, on locally affected communities, including any the Credit Facility Sanctioning Standards.
material upstream and downstream impacts, and working conditions together with employee and community health and safety.
Adherence Barclays approach to environmental credit risk management addresses to the Group ESIA policy is the mechanism by which Barclays fulfils the risk under any of three categories: requirements of the Equator Principles.
These Principles are an internationally recognised framework for environmental due diligence Direct Risk: arises when the Bank takes commercial land as collateral.
Barclays was one of the four banks which many jurisdictions, enforcement of a commercial mortgage by the collaborated in developing the Principles, ahead of their launch in 2003 bank, leading to possession, potentially renders the Bank liable for the with 10 adopting banks.
There are now over 70 banks worldwide which costs of remediating a site if deemed to be contaminated by the have adopted the Equator Principles.
regulator, including for pre-existing conditions.
In the UK, our policy requires commercial land, if being pledged as collateral, to be subject Further details on the Barclays approach to environmental risk to a screening mechanism using the bespoke Barclays Siteguard tool.
management can be found at Barclays.
com, in our section on Assessment of the commercial history of a piece of land and its Citizenship: the way we do business, Environmental and Social Risk in potential for environmental contamination helps ensure any potential Lending.
environmental degradation is reflected in the value ascribed to that security.
It also identifies potential liabilities which may be incurred by the Bank, if realisation of the security were to become a possibility.
320 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
