Risk management Capital risk management Support its credit rating.
A weaker credit rating would increase the Capital risk management overview audited Groups cost of funds: or Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital Support its growth and strategic options.
resources to: Meet minimum regulatory requirements in the UK and in other Capital Management is integral to the Groups approach to financial jurisdictions such as the United States and South Africa where stability and sustainability management and is therefore embedded in regulated activities are undertaken.
The Groups authority to operate the way our Businesses and Legal Entities operate.
Our Capital as a bank is dependent upon the maintenance of adequate capital Management strategy is driven by the strategic aims of the Group and resources: the risk appetite set by the Board.
Our objectives are achieved through well embedded capital management practices: Primary Objectives Core Practices Provide a viable and sustainable business offering by maintaining Maintain a capital plan on a short term and medium term basis adequate capital to cover the Groups current and forecast business aligned with strategic objectives needs and associated risks Meet minimum regulatory requirements at all times in the UK and in all other jurisdictions that the Group operates in, such as the United States and South Africa where regulated activities are undertaken Ensure the Group and legal entities maintain adequate capital to Perform Group-wide internal and regulatory stress tests withstand the impact of the risks that may arise under the stressed Maintain capital buffers over regulatory minimums conditions analysed by the Group Develop contingency plans for severe stress management actions and extreme stress tests recovery actions Support a strong credit rating Maintain capital ratios aligned with rating agency expectations Risk identification Our approach to capital risk management Capital demand is assessed and quantified for credit, market, We adopt a forward-looking, risk based approach to Capital Risk operational, interest rate risk on the banking book, pension obligation Management.
Capital demand and supply is actively managed on a risk and securitisation risks, in line with the FSAs regulatory centralised basis, at a business level, at a local entity level and on a requirements.
regional basis taking into account the regulatory, economic and commercial environment in which Barclays operates.
Treasury works closely with Group Risk, businesses and legal entities to support a proactive approach to identifying sources of capital ratio Capital planning volatilities which are incorporated in the Groups capital plan.
We Capital forecasts are managed on a top-down and bottom-up analysis monitor capital risks against firm-specific and macroeconomic early through both Short Term Year 1 monthly and Medium Term 3 year warning indicators and report to Treasury Committee, associated with financial planning cycles.
Our capital plans are developed with the clear escalation channels to senior management.
objective of maintaining capital that is adequate in quantity and quality to support our risk profile and business needs.
As a result the Group Stress testing holds a diversified pool of capital resources that provides strong loss Internal stress testing is undertaken to quantify and understand the absorbing capacity and optimised returns.
impact of sensitivities on the capital plan and capital ratios, arising from 1 in 7 year and 1 in 25 year stresses.
Actual recent economic, Our capital plans are continually monitored against internal target market and peer institution stresses are used to inform the capital ratios to ensure they remain appropriate, and to consider risks assumptions of our stress tests and assess the effectiveness of our to the plan including possible future regulatory charges.
Local management ensures compliance with an entitys minimum Group also undertakes stress tests prescribed by the FSA and ECB.
regulatory capital requirements by reporting to local Asset and Liability Legal entities undertake stress tests prescribed by their local regulators.
Committees with oversight by the Groups Capital Committee, as These stress tests inform decisions on the size and quality of capital required.
buffer required and the results are incorporated into the Group capital plan to ensure adequacy of capital under normal and severe, but Capital allocation plausible stressed conditions.
Capital allocations are approved by the Group Executive Committee and monitored by the Treasury Committee, taking into consideration the risk appetite, growth and strategic aims of the Group.
Barclays Bank PLC BBPLC is the primary source of capital to its legal entities.
Regulated legal entities are, at a minimum, allocated adequate capital to meet their current and forecast regulatory and business requirements.
340 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Risk mitigation Senior management awareness and transparency As part of the stress testing process we identify the actions that should Capital ratios, early warning indicators and movements in capital be taken to mitigate the risks that could arise in the event of material demand and supply are reported to Group Treasury Committee adverse changes in the current economic and business outlook.
As an additional layer of protection, the Barclays Recovery Plan defines Capital management information is readily available at all times to the actions and implementation strategies available for the Group to support the Executive Managements strategic and day-to-day increase or preserve our capital resources in the event that stress business decision making, as may be required.
events are more extreme than anticipated.
In addition, the strong regulatory focus on resolvability has continued in 2012, from both UK The Group submits its Board approved ICAAP document to the FSA on and international regulators.
The Group continues to work with the an annual basis, which forms the basis of the Individual Capital authorities on recovery and resolution planning RRP, and the detailed Guidance set by the FSA.
practicalities of the resolution process, including the provision of information that would be required in the event of a resolution, so as Pillar 3 disclosures are approved by the Board and publicly available as to enhance Barclays resolvability a Citizenship commitment made in a separate document in line with the Basel 2 and FSA requirements.
The Group made its first formal RRP submissions to the UK and US regulators in mid-2012 and has since continued to work with Ongoing capital management risks the authorities to identify and address any impediments to resolvability.
Capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements The Group has capital resources and risk weighted assets denominated Transferability of capital in foreign currencies.
Changes in foreign exchange rates result in The Groups policy is for surplus capital held in Group entities to be changes in the Sterling equivalent value of foreign currency repatriated to BBPLC in the form of dividends and or capital denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
As a result, repatriation, subject to local regulatory requirements, exchange the Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign currency controls and tax implications.
This approach provides optimal flexibility movements.
on the re-deployment of capital across legal entities.
The Group is not aware of any material impediments to the prompt transfer of capital The Groups capital ratio management strategy is to minimise the resources, in line with the above policy, or repayment of intra-group volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate liabilities when due.
To achieve this, the Group aims to maintain the ratio of foreign currency Core Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total capital resources to Governance foreign currency RWAs the same as the Groups consolidated capital Our Group and legal entity capital plans are underpinned by the Capital ratios.
Management Framework, which includes our capital management policies and practices approved by the Capital Committee and The Groups investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches, implemented consistently and aimed at delivering on our objectives.
to the extent that they are not hedged for foreign exchange The Group Treasury Committee and the Board approve the Group movements, translate into Sterling upon consolidation creating Core capital plan, stress tests and Recovery Plan.
The Group Treasury Tier 1 capital resources sensitive to foreign currency movements.
Committee manages compliance with the Groups capital management Changes in the Sterling value of the investments due to foreign objectives.
The Committee reviews actual and forecast capital demand currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, and resources on a monthly basis.
The Board Risk Committee annually resulting in a movement in Core Tier 1 capital.
reviews risk appetite and then analyses the impacts of stress scenarios on the Group capital forecast see pages 56-58 in order to understand To create foreign currency Tier 1 and Total Capital resources additional and manage the Groups projected capital adequacy, amongst other to the Core Tier 1 capital resources, the Group issues, where possible, things.
debt capital in non-Sterling currencies.
This is primarily achieved by the issuance of debt capital from Barclays Bank PLC in USD and EUR, but Resources can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing capital in local currencies, Global teams operate in accordance with the Groups policies and such as ABSA in South Africa.
procedures, having direct access to local regulators and businesses in order to support individual capital management at a legal entity level.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 341
