The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Risk management Credit risk management Organisation and structure audited Credit risk management overview Barclays has structured the responsibilities of credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should any of the so that decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, whilst Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their ensuring robust review and challenge of performance, risk contractual obligations to the Group.
The granting of credit is one of infrastructure and strategic plans.
The credit risk management teams the Groups major sources of income and, as the most significant risk, in each business are accountable to the business risk directors in those the Group dedicates considerable resources to its control.
businesses who, in turn, report to the heads of their businesses and also to the Chief Risk Officer.
Overview audited The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and The responsibilities of the credit risk management teams in the retail loans and advances together with the counterparty credit risk businesses include: sanctioning new sources of risk: monitoring risk arising from derivative contracts entered into with our clients.
Other against limits and other parameters: ensuring all elements of post sources of credit risk arise from trading activities, including debt sanction fulfilment are completed in line with terms of the sanction: securities: settlement balances with market counterparties, available for maintaining robust systems, data gathering, quality, storage and sale assets and reverse repurchase loans.
reporting methods for effective credit risk management: and performing effective turnaround and workout scenarios via dedicated Credit risk management objectives are to: restructuring and recoveries teams.
maintain a framework of controls to ensure credit risk-taking is Credit risk approval is undertaken by experienced credit risk based on sound credit risk management principles: professionals operating within a clearly defined delegated authority identify, assess and measure credit risk clearly and accurately across framework, with only the most senior credit officers entrusted with the the Group and within each separate business, from the level of higher levels of delegated authority.
The largest credit exposures are individual facilities up to the total portfolio: approved at the Credit Committee which is managed by Group Risk.
In the wholesale portfolios, credit risk managers are organised in control and plan credit risk-taking in line with external stakeholder sanctioning teams by geography, industry and or product.
expectations and avoiding undesirable concentrations: monitor credit risk and adherence to agreed controls: and The role of the Group Risk function is to provide Group-wide direction, oversight and challenge of credit risk-taking.
Group Risk sets the Credit ensure that risk-reward objectives are met.
Risk Control Framework, which provides a structure within which credit risk is managed together with supporting Group Credit Risk Policies.
Group Risk also provides technical support, review and validation of credit risk measurement models across the Group.
Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios Wholesale account status Retail account status Performing Performing Current Including EWL 1-2, WL 1-3 Areas Status 0 Watchlist Committee flags Business support assists Customer misses contractual Customer pays total overdue client on the basis of evidence the client to return to in payment and moves to payments and returns back of financial difficulty.
Business Support Delinquent Collections EWL3, WL3.5 Arrears Status 1-6 Customers financial difficulty Customer reaches high requires a decision on the arrears status and is moved form of future relationship.
to the recovery function where legal action is taken.
Default Recovery Default Charge-off Recovery Arrears Status 6 Asset is considered Asset is considered irrecoverable and is irrecoverable and is written off.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 321 Risk management Credit risk management continued Reporting undertaken should circumstances dictate.
Specialist recovery functions The Group dedicates considerable resources to gaining a clear and deal with clients in higher levels of EWL WL, default, collection or accurate understanding of credit risk across the business and ensuring insolvency.
Their mandate is to maximise shareholder value ideally via that its balance sheet correctly reflects the value of the assets in working intensively with the client to help them to either return to accordance with applicable accounting principles.
This process can be financial health or in the cases of insolvency obtain the orderly and summarised in four broad stages: timely recovery of impaired debts.
measuring exposures and concentrations: Within the wholesale portfolios the Basel definitions of default are used monitoring weaknesses in portfolios: as default indicators in addition to the IAS 39 objective evidence of impairment.
A default is triggered if individual identified impairment is raising allowances for impairment and other credit provisions: and recognised.
The Basel definitions of default used are: returning assets to a performing status or writing off assets when the 1.
Bank puts the credit obligation on a non-accrued status.
whole or part of a debt is considered irrecoverable.
Bank mak es a charge-off or account specific identified impairment resulting from a significant perceived decline in credit quality.
Measuring exposures and concentrations Loans and advances to customers provide the principal source of credit 3.
Bank sells the cr edit obligation at a material credit-related risk to the Group although Barclays can also be exposed to other forms economic loss.
of credit risk through, for example, loans to banks, loan commitments 4.
Bank consents to a distr essed restructuring of the credit obligation and debt securities.
Barclays risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk where this is likely to result in a diminished financial obligation caused by the material forgiveness or postponement of principal, appetite, limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and timely data.
One area of particular interest or fees.
A concentration of credit risk exists when 5.
Bank triggers a petition for obligors bankruptcy or similar order.
a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have 6.
Bank becomes a ware of the obligor having sought or having been similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic placed in bankruptcy or similar protection where this would avoid or delay repayment of the credit obligation to the banking group.
As a result, Barclays constantly reviews its concentration in a number of areas including, for example, geography, 7.
Bank becomes aware of an acceleration of an obligation by a firm.
maturity and industry see pages 118-121.
Where the obligor is a bank revocation of authorisation.
Diversification is achieved through setting maximum exposure 9.
Wher e the obligor is a sovereign trigger of default definition of an guidelines to individual counterparties.
Excesses are reported to the approved External Credit Assessment Institution i. e. a rating Financial Risk Committee and the BRC.
Mandate and Scale limits are agency.
used to maintain concentrations at appropriate levels.
Obligor p ast due more than 90 days on any material credit typically based on the nature of the lending and the amount of the obligation to the banking group.
portfolio meeting certain standards of underwriting criteria.
Retail portfolios Monitoring weaknesses in portfolios Within the retail portfolios, which tend to comprise homogeneous Whilst the basic principles for monitoring weaknesses in wholesale and assets, statistical techniques more readily allow potential weaknesses retail exposures are broadly similar, they reflect the differing nature of to be monitored on a portfolio basis.
The approach is consistent with the assets.
As a matter of policy all facilities granted to corporate or the Groups policy of raising a collective impairment allowance as soon wholesale counterparties are subject to a review on, at least, an annual as objective evidence of impairment is identified.
Retail accounts can basis, even when they are performing satisfactorily.
be classified according to specified categories of arrears status or cycle, which reflects the level of contractual payments which are Wholesale portfolios overdue.
An outstanding balance is deemed to be delinquent when it is Wholesale accounts that are deemed to contain heightened levels of one day or one penny down and goes into default when it moves into risk are recorded on graded early warning lists EWL or watchlists recovery normally 180 days.
Impairment is considered from entry into WL comprising three categories graded in line with the perceived delinquency.
severity of the risk attached to the lending, and its probability of default.
Examples of heightened levels of risk may include, for example: The probability of default increases with the number of contractual a material reduction in profits: payments missed, thus raising the associated impairment requirement.
a material reduction in the value of collateral held: Once a loan has passed through a prescribed number of cycles a decline in net tangible assets in circumstances which are not normally six it will charge-off and enter recovery status.
Charge-off satisfactorily explained: or refers to the point in time when collections activity changes from the collection of arrears to the recovery of the full balance.
In most cases, periodic waiver requests or changes to the terms of the credit charge-off will result in the account moving to a legal recovery function agreement over an extended period of time.
This will typically occur after an account has been treated by a collections function.
However, in certain cases, an account may be These lists are updated monthly and circulated to the relevant risk charged off directly from a performing status, such as in the case of control points.
Once an account has been placed on WL or EWL, the insolvency or death.
exposure is carefully monitored and, where appropriate, exposure reductions are effected.
Should an account become impaired, it will The timings of the charge-off points are established based on the type normally, but not necessarily, have passed through each of the three of loan.
For the majority of products, the standard period for charging categories, which reflect the need for increasing caution and control.
off accounts is six cycles 180 days past due date of contractual Where an obligors financial health gives grounds for concern, it is obligation.
Early charge-off points are prescribed for unsecured assets.
immediately placed into the appropriate category.
While all obligors, For example, in case of customer bankruptcy or insolvency, associated regardless of financial health, are subject to a full review of all facilities accounts are charged off within 60 days of notification.
on at least an annual basis, more frequent interim reviews may be 322 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information For retail portfolios, the impairment allowance in the retail portfolios is Allowances for impairment and other credit provisions mainly assessed on a collective basis and is based on the drawn Barclays establishes, through charges against profit, impairment balances adjusted to take into account the likelihood of the customer allowances and other credit provisions for the incurred loss inherent in defaulting at a particular point in time PDpit and the amount the lending book.
Under IFRS, impairment allowances are recognised estimated as not recoverable LGD.
The basic calculation is: where there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events that have occurred after initial recognition, and where Impairment allowance Total outstandings x Probability of Default these events have had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of PDpit x Loss Given Default LGD the financial asset or portfolio of financial assets.
Impairment of loans and receivables is measured as the difference between the carrying The PDpit increases with the number of contractual payments missed amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows thus raising the associated impairment requirement.
discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
If the carrying amount is less than the discounted cash flows, then no further Unidentified impairment allowances are also raised to cover losses allowance is necessary.
which are judged to be incurred but not yet specifically identified in customer exposures at the balance sheet date, and which, therefore, Impairment allowances are measured individually for assets that are have not been specifically reported.
The incurred but not yet reported individually significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises calculation is based on the assets probability of moving from the homogenous assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are performing portfolio to being specifically identified as impaired within available.
In terms of individual assessment, the principal trigger point the given emergence period and then on to default within a specified for impairment is the missing of a contractual payment which is period.
This is calculated on the present value of estimated future cash evidence that an account is exhibiting serious financial problems, and flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
where any further deterioration is likely to lead to failure.
Details of The emergence periods vary across businesses and are based on actual other trigger points can be found on page 322.
Two key inputs to the experience and are reviewed on an annual basis.
The current policy cash flow calculation are the valuation of all security and collateral, as also incorporates a High Risk segment which supplements the well as the timing of all asset realisations, after allowing for all unidentified impairment calculation.
High Risk segments are those attendant costs.
This method applies mainly in the corporate portfolios.
which can be demonstrated to experience higher levels of loss when compared to the performing segment.
This segmentation allows for For collective assessment, the principal trigger point for impairment is earlier identification of potential loss issues in a portfolio.
Unidentified the missing of a contractual payment which is the policy consistently impairment is also referred to as collective impairment.
This is to reflect adopted across all credit cards, unsecured loans, mortgages and most the impairment that is collectively held against a pool of assets where a other retail lending.
Details of other trigger points can be found on loss event has occurred, but has not yet been captured.
The calculation methodology relies on the historical referred to as collective impairment against the pool.
experience of pools of similar assets: hence the impairment allowance is collective.
The impairment calculation is typically based on a roll-rate Emergence and outcome periods approach, where the percentage of assets that move from the initial To develop models to calculate the allowance for impairment we need delinquency to default is derived from statistical probabilities based on to first estimate the time horizons of these models.
These time horizons historical experience.
Recovery amounts and contractual interest rates are called the emergence and outcome periods.
Emergence period is are calculated using a weighted average for the relevant portfolio.
This the time it takes for an account that is impaired but not yet identified to method applies mainly to the Groups retail portfolios and is consistent move from the performing to the impaired segment.
Outcome period is with Barclays policy of raising an allowance as soon as impairment is the time it takes for a retail account to move from the impaired identified.
Unidentified impairment is also referred to as collective segment to the default segment.
This is to reflect the impairment that is collectively held against a pool of assets where a loss event has occurred, but has not For wholesale portfolios in Corporate Banking and Investment Bank, yet been captured.
Hence, it is referred to as collective impairment the emergence period is portfolio specific and is based on the against the pool.
anticipated length of time from the occurrence of a loss event to identified impairment being incurred.
The emergence period in Impairment in the wholesale portfolios is generally calculated by Corporate Banking is derived from actual case file review.
This has also valuing each impaired asset on a case by case basis, i. e. on an been benchmarked against the time taken to move between risk grades individual assessment basis.
A relatively small amount of wholesale in our internal watch lists, from EWL1 or 2 into EWL3 which is the level impairment relates to unidentified or collective impairment: in such of risk that will attract a collective impairment allowance.
Both cases impairment is calculated using modelled PD x LGD x EAD methodologies produce similar results for the emergence period, which Exposure at Default adjusted for an emergence period.
The average life of the Investment Bank portfolio Product type Emergence Outcome period period months months Mortgages 6 12 Credit cards 1 6 Personal loans, overdrafts & other secured loans 3 6 Business banking arrears managed commercial mortgages 6 12 Business banking arrears managed non-commercial mortgages 3 6 Business banking EWL managed 3 12 Mortgages under forbearance n a 24 All unsecured products under forbearance n a 12 Business banking EWL managed under forbearance n a 24 barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 323 Risk management Credit risk management continued is estimated to be 18 months, during which time Investment Bank is For residential mortgages, accounts may also be considered for exposed to losses on the portfolio.
However, it is expected that incurred Rehabilitation post charge-off, where customer circumstances have losses would become apparent within 6 months, therefore the changed.
The customer must clear all unpaid capital and interest and Investment Bank use a 6-month emergence period.
confirm their ability to meet full payments going forward.
For retail portfolios, minimum emergence periods and outcome periods Writing off of assets are defined at a product level.
Emergence and outcome periods at Write-off refers to the point where it is determined that the asset is 31 December 2012 for the main retail products were as shown in the irrecoverable, or it is no longer considered economically viable to try table on the previous page.
and recover the asset or it is deemed immaterial or full and final settlement is reached and a shortfall remains.
In the event of write-off, the customer balance is removed from the balance sheet and the Outcome periods are tested periodically at least annually against the actual time elapsing from the initial indication of potential default to impairment reserve held against the asset is released.
When necessary, the outcome period is adjusted to reflect our most up-to-date experience of customer behaviour.
The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of subjective judgement.
Nevertheless, a write-off will often be prompted by a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or This methodology ensures that the Group captures the loss incurred at the correct balance sheet date.
These impairment allowances are other formal recovery action, which makes it possible to establish that some or the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.
In reviewed and adjusted at least quarterly by an appropriate charge or release of the stock of impairment allowances based on statistical any event, the position of impaired loans is reviewed at least quarterly to ensure that irrecoverable advances are being written off in a prompt analysis and management judgement.
Where appropriate, the accuracy of this analysis is periodically assessed against actual losses see and orderly manner and in compliance with any local regulations.
modelling of risk on pages 87-94 in 2012 Pillar 3 Report.
Total write-offs of impaired financial assets As one of the controls to ensure that adequate impairment allowances are held, movements in impairment to individual names with a total 4,119m 2012 impairment allowance of 25m or more are presented to the Credit 5,165m 2011 Committee for agreement.
4,310m 2010 Returning assets to a performing status 3,380m 2009 In wholesale portfolios, an account may only be returned to a performing status when it ceases to have any actual or perceived 2,919m 2008 financial stress and no longer meets any of the EWL WL criteria, or once facilities have been fully repaid or cancelled.
Unless a facility is fully repaid or cancelled, the decision in Corporate Banking to return an account to performing status may only be taken by the Business Credit For Retail portfolios the timings of the write-off points are established Risk, while within the Investment Bank, the decision can only be taken based on the type of loan.
For unsecured assets, write-off must occur by the Investment Bank WatchList Committee.
within 12 months after charge-off if no payment has been received for 12 months.
For secured loans, the shortfall after the receipt of the A retail asset, pre point of charge-off may only be returned to a proceeds from the disposal of the collateral is written off within 3 performing status in the following circumstances: months of that date if no repayment schedule has been agreed with 1.
All arr ears both capital and interest have been cleared and the borrower.
Such assets are only written off once all the necessary payments have returned to original contractual payments: procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
For revolving products, a re-age event has occurred, when the customer is returned to an up-to-date status without having Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are written cleared the requisite level of arrears: back and hence decrease the amount of the reported loan impairment 3.
F or amortising products excluding residential mortgages, a small charge in the income statement.
In 2012, total write-offs of impaired arrears capitalisation event has occurred, where the customer is financial assets decreased 20% to 4,119m 2011: 5,165m.
returned to an up-to-date status without having cleared the requisite level of arrears: Identifying Potential Credit Risk Loans In line with disclosure requirements from the SEC in the US, the Group 4.
For amortising products, which are performing on a programme of reports potentially and actually impaired loans as Potential Credit Risk Forbearance and meet the following criteria may be returned to the Loans PCRLs.
PCRLs comprise two categories of loans: Potential a performing book classified as High Risk : Problem Loans PPLs and Credit Risk Loans CRLs.
a No interest rate concessions must have been granted: PPLs are loans that are currently complying with repayment terms but b Restructure must remain within original product parameters where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrower to continue original term extension : and to comply with such terms in the near future.
If the credit quality of a c 12 consecutive payments at the revised contractual payment loan on an EWL or WL deteriorates to the highest category wholesale amount must have been received post the Restructure event.
or deteriorates to delinquency cycle 2 retail, consideration is given to including it within the PPL category.
Should further evidence of deterioration be observed, a loan may move to the CRL category.
Events that would trigger the transfer of a loan Note from the PPL to the CRL category include a missed payment or a a The identification and subsequent treatment of up-to-date customers who, breach of covenant.
CRLs comprise three classes of loans: either through an event or observed behaviour exhibit potential financial difficulty.
High Risk must also include customers who have suffered recent financial dislocation, i. e. prior forbearance or re age.
324 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Impaired loans: comprises loans where an individual identified CRL coverage ratios would therefore be expected to be at or around impairment allowance has been raised and also include loans which these levels over a defined period of time.
In principle, a number of are fully collateralised or where indebtedness has already been factors may affect the Groups coverage ratios, including: written down to the expected realisable value.
This category includes The mix of products within total CRL balances: Coverage ratios will all retail loans that have been charged off to legal recovery.
The tend to be lower when there is a high proportion of secured retail and impaired loan category may include loans, which, while impaired, are corporate balances within total CRLs.
This is due to the fact that the still performing: recovery outlook on these types of exposures is typically higher than Accruing past due 90 days or more: comprises loans that are 90 days retail unsecured products, with the result that they will have lower impairment requirements: or more past due with respect to principal or interest.
An impairment allowance will be raised against these loans if the expected cash The stage in the economic cycle: Coverage ratios will tend to be lower flows discounted at the effective interest rate are less than the in the earlier stages of deterioration in credit conditions.
At this stage, carrying value: and retail delinquent balances will be predominantly in the early delinquency cycles and corporate names will have only recently Impaired and restructured loans: comprises loans not included above where, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtors financial moved to CRL categories.
As such balances attract a lower impairment requirement, the CRL coverage ratio will be lower: difficulties, a concession has been granted to the debtor that would not otherwise be considered.
Where the concession results in the expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate being CRL coverage less than the loans carrying value, an impairment allowance will be raised.
72.9% 70.7% 68.6% 66.9% 71.9% 69.7% Loan loss rate and coverage ratios 52.1% 50.4% 49.7% The loan loss rate LLR provides Barclays with one way of monitoring 48.2% 48.9% 41.9% 51.8% the trends in the quality of the loan portfolio at the Group, business and 47.7% 47.6% 42.6% 42.4% product levels.
At Barclays, the LLR represents the annualised 34.6% 25.0% 24.2% impairment charges on loans and advances to customers and banks 23.3% 19.9% 17.7% and other credit provisions as a percentage of the total, period-end 12.7% loans and advances to customers and banks, gross of impairment December December December December June December allowances.
Details of the LLR for the current period may be found on 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 pages 129 and 136.
Retail Unsecured & Other Group The impairment allowance is the aggregate of the identified and Corporate & Wholesale unidentified impairment balances.
Impairment allowance coverage, or Retail Home Loans the coverage ratio, is reported at two levels: Credit risk loans coverage ratio impairment allowances as a The balance of PPLs to CRLs: The impairment requirements for PPLs percentage of CRL balances : and are lower than for CRLs, so the greater the proportion of PPLs, the lower the PCRL coverage ratio: and Potential credit risk loans coverage ratio impairment allowances as a percentage of total CRL and PPL balances.
Write-off policies: The speed with which defaulted assets are written off will affect coverage ratios.
The more quickly assets are written off, Appropriate coverage ratios will vary according to the type of product the lower the ratios will be, since stock with 100% coverage will tend but can be broadly bracketed under three categories: secured retail to roll out of PCRL categories more quickly.
home loans: credit cards, unsecured and other personal lending products: and corporate facilities.
Analysis and experience has Details of the coverage ratios for the current period may be found on indicated that, in general, the severity rates for these types of products pages 128, 130-131 and 137. are typically within the following ranges: Secured retail home loans: 5%-20%: Credit cards, unsecured and other personal lending products: 65%-75%: and Corporate facilities: 30%-50%.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 325 Risk management Credit risk management continued Retail forbearance Forbearance Retail forbearance is available to customers experiencing financial The Group offers forbearance programmes to assist customers and difficulties.
Forbearance solutions take a number of forms depending clients in financial difficulty through agreements to accept less than on individual customer circumstances.
Short term solutions focus on contractual amounts due where financial distress would otherwise temporary reductions to contractual payments and may change from prevent satisfactory repayment within the original terms and conditions capital and interest payments to interest only.
For customers with of the contract.
These agreements may be initiated by the customer, longer term financial difficulties, term extensions may be offered, which Barclays or a third party.
may include interest rate concessions.
In the retail portfolios, as part of the Group Risk Forbearance Policy, When an account is placed into a programme of forbearance, the asset solutions may take a number of forms depending on the extent of the will be classified as such for the remainder of its term, unless after 12 financial dislocation.
Short term solutions normally focus on temporary months it qualifies for reclassification, upon which it will be returned to reductions to contractual payments and switches from capital and the up to date book and classified as high risk for a further 12 month interest payments to interest only.
For customers with longer term period.
When Barclays agrees to a forbearance programme with a financial difficulties, term extensions may be offered, which may customer, the impairment allowance recognises the impact on cash-flows include interest rate concessions and a switch to fully amortising of the agreement to receive less than the original contractual payments.
The Group Retail Impairment Policy prescribes the methodology for impairment of forbearance assets, which is measured by comparing the In the wholesale portfolios, Barclays will on occasion participate in debt outstanding to the revised expected repayment.
This results in debt-for-asset swaps, debt standstills or debt restructuring agreements higher impairment than for fully performing assets, reflecting the as part of the business support process.
Debt restructuring agreements additional credit risk attached to loans subject to forbearance.
may include actions to improve security: such as changing an overdraft to a factoring or invoice discounting facility or moving debt to asset During 2012, Barclays continued to assist customers in financial owning companies.
Consideration is also given to the waiving or difficulty through the use of forbearance programmes.
However, the relaxing of covenants where this is the optimum strategy for the extent of forbearance offered by the Group to customers and clients survival of the clients business.
For further detail, see page 139. remains small in comparison to the overall size of the loan book.
Impairment of loans under forbearance Forbearance on the Groups principal portfolios in US, UK and Europe Loans under forbearance programmes are subject to Group are presented on pages 134-135.
In South Africa, forbearance balances Impairment Policy.
In both retail and wholesale portfolios, identified are not published as local practices are in the process of being aligned impairment is raised for such accounts, recognising the agreement to the Barclays Group policy.
between the Bank and customer to pay less than the original contractual payment and is measured using a future discounted cash The level of forbearance extended to customers in other retail flow approach comparing the debt outstanding to the expected portfolios is not material and, typically, does not currently play a repayment on the debt.
This results in higher impairment being held for significant part in the way customer relationships are managed.
loans under forbearance than for fully performing assets, reflecting the However, additional portfolios will be added to this disclosure should additional credit risk attached to loans subject to forbearance.
the forbearance in respect of such portfolios become material.
Sustainability of loans under forbearance Barclays would not consider a retail loan to be renegotiated where the The Group closely monitors the sustainability of loans for which amendment is at the request of the customer, there is no evidence of forbearance has been granted.
actual or imminent financial difficulty and the amendment meets with all Barclays underwriting criteria.
In this case it would be treated as a In the wholesale portfolios, customers that have been granted new loan.
In the normal course of business, customers who are not in forbearance are placed on WL EWL and therefore subject to increased financial difficulties frequently apply for new loan terms, for example to levels of credit risk oversight.
Obligors then remain on WL EWL for a take advantage of a lower interest rate or to secure a further advance on minimum of 12 months from the date forbearance is applied until a mortgage product.
Where these applications meet our underwriting satisfactory performance is evidenced.
Obligors may only be removed criteria and the loan is made at market interest rates, the loan is not from WL EWL status in less than 12 months in exceptional classified as being in forbearance.
Only in circumstances where a circumstances, e. g. full repayment of facilities or significant customer has requested a term extension, interest rate reduction or restructuring that materially improves credit quality.
further advance and there is evidence of financial difficulty is the loan classified as forbearance and included in our disclosures on forbearance.
In retail portfolios, the type of forbearance programme offered should be appropriate to the nature and the expected duration of the Wholesale forbearance customers financial distress.
It is imperative that the solution agreed is Wholesale client relationships are individually managed with lending both appropriate to that customer and sustainable, with a clear decisions made with reference to specific circumstances and on demonstration from the customer of both willingness and ability to bespoke terms.
Before any programme of forbearance is granted, an affordability assessment is undertaken to ensure suitability of the offer.
Forbearance occurs when Barclays, for reasons relating to the actual or perceived financial difficulty of an obligor, grants a concession below For further detail on the Groups impairment policy and the way current Barclays standard rates i. e. lending criteria below our current loans are separated into pools reflecting similar risk characteristics, lending terms, that would not otherwise be considered.
This includes see pages 323-325. all troubled debt restructures granted below our standard rates.
For disclosure on the Groups accounting policy with respect to Forbearance would typically be evident where the concession s agreed impairment, see pages 245-246 and page 323. impact the ability to repay debt or avoid recognising a default with a lack of appropriate commercial balance and risk mitigation structural enhancement of benefit to Barclays in return for concession s. 326 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information The following list is not exhaustive but provides some examples of Impairment is assessed on an individual basis and recognised where instances that would typically be considered to be evidence of relevant impairment triggers have been reached including where forbearance: customers are in arrears and require renegotiation of terms.
Forbearance is considered to be an indicator that impairment may be a reduction of current contractual interest rate for the sole purpose present and an impairment test is performed for all cases placed in of maintaining performing debt status with no other improvement to forbearance.
terms of benefit to the Bank: non-enforcement of a material covenant breach impacting the A control framework exists along with regular sampling to ensure borrowers ability to repay: watch list and impairment policies are enforced as defined and to ensure that all assets have suitable levels of impairment applied.
converting a fully or partially amortising facility to bullet repayment Portfolios are subject to independent assessment.
at maturity with no other improvement to terms of benefit to the Bank for the sole purpose of avoiding a payment default due to the Aggregate data for wholesale forbearance cases is reviewed by the customers inability to meet amortisation: Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee.
extension in maturity date for a Project Finance facility that gives an effective contractual term longer than the underlying project contract Please see page 139 for details of loans currently in forbearance.
being financed: and Retail re-aging activity any release of a material security interest without receiving appropriate value by way of repayment alternate security offered or Re-aging refers to the placing of an account into an up-to-date position other improvement in terms available to the Bank commensurate without the requisite repayment of arrears.
The re-age policy applies to with the value of the security released.
No reduction is made to the minimum due payment amounts which are calculated, as a percentage of balance, Where a concession is granted that is not a result of financial difficulty with any unpaid principal included in the calculation of the following and or is within our current market terms, the concession would not months minimum due payment.
For example, a commercially balanced restructure within our current terms which involves Barclays granting The changes in timing of cash flows following re-aging do not result in concessions and receiving risk mitigation structural enhancement of any additional cost to Barclays.
The following are the conditions benefit to Barclays would not be indicative of forbearance.
required to be met before a re-age may occur: the account must not have been previously charged off or written off: The following list not exhaustive gives some examples of instances that would not typically be considered to be evidence of forbearance: the borrower cannot be bankrupt, subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement a UK contractual arrangement with creditors for temporary permanent waivers resets of covenants agreed in line individuals wishing to avoid bankruptcy, a fraud or deceased: with our current terms: the borrower must show a renewed willingness and ability to repay amending contractual maturity to meet current lending terms that the debt.
This will be achieved by the borrower making at least three results in a previously amortising facility having a bullet repayment as consecutive contractual monthly payments or the equivalent a consequence of shorter maturity date: cumulative amount.
Contractual monthly payment is defined as the equity warrants taken to increase return to the Bank without contractual minimum due.
Funds may not be advanced for any part compromising contractual interest: of this: extension of maturity date where the extension is within the normally the account must have been on book at least 9 months i. e. granted terms for the type of facility in question: and 9 months prior to the 3 month qualification period : and release of a material security interest where commensurate value is no account should be re-aged more than once within any 12 month received by way of repayment other security offered.
period, or more than twice in a 5 year period.
Cases where a technical default may have occurred, the Bank has We consider these assets as belonging to a separate High Risk pool.
decided to reserve its position but does not consider the default to be Under High Risk, the performance of the assets is a risk characteristic sufficient to impact the borrowers ability to pay, would not typically be and results in a higher probability of default being assigned to them in considered forbearance as the borrower would continue to meet its our impairment models which meet the requirement of IAS 39, payment obligations under existing terms.
This results in an appropriately higher impairment allowance being recognised on the assets.
The Group Watch List Early Warning List and Forbearance Policy requires that a permanent record is retained of all individual cases of Retail small arrears capitalisation forbearance, and upon granting forbearance the obligor is placed on Small Arrears Capitalisation is available for amortising products with WL EWL.
The obligor then remains on WL EWL and is flagged as being the exception of residential mortgages.
This refers to the capitalisation in forbearance for a minimum of 12 months from the date forbearance of small levels of arrears up to 90 days past due, together with either is applied.
Obligors may be removed from WL EWL status in less than a corresponding term extension or increase to contractual monthly 12 months in exceptional circumstances, e. g. full repayment of facilities payment without the requirement to classify the accounts as or significant restructuring.
Obligors placed on WL EWL status are forbearance.
Contractual monthly payments must not be reduced.
The subject to increased levels of credit risk oversight.
small arrears capitalisation activity is also subject to the conditions outlined above under Retail re-aging activity, being met.
Any Obligors who have been granted forbearance are classified as a Basel capitalisation event exceeding this must be executed under the unlikeliness to pay default for capital purposes with PD of 1 throughout direction of the Forbearance policy.
the period that they remain classified as being in forbearance.
This is on the basis that without intervention by Barclays the obligor is unlikely to meet its obligations in full which would lead to default.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 327 Risk management Credit risk management continued Collateral is obtained against derivative assets, depending on the Derivative credit risk creditworthiness of the counterparty and or nature of the transaction.
The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or Any collateral taken in respect of OTC trading exposures will be subject cleared on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and to a haircut which is negotiated at the time of signing the collateral options on futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide agreement.
A haircut is the valuation percentage applicable to each margin daily with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the type of collateral and will be largely based on liquidity and price holders look for ultimate settlement.
volatility of the underlying security.
The collateral obtained for derivatives is either cash, direct debt obligation government G14 The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded bonds denominated in the domestic currency of the issuing country, over the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
These debt issued by supranationals or letters of credit issued by an instruments range from standardised transactions in derivative institution with a long-term unsecured debt rating of A A3 or better.
markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to the Where the Group has ISDA master agreements, the collateral requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry document will be the ISDA CSA.
The collateral document must give standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a Barclays the power to realise any collateral placed with it in the event of master agreement, with individual transaction confirmations.
The the failure of the counterparty, and to place further collateral when existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group requested or in the event of insolvency, administration or similar protection in situations where a counterparty is in default.
processes, as well as in the case of early termination.
Counterparty credit exposure arises from the risk that parties are Under IFRS, netting is permitted only if both of the following criteria are unable to meet their payment obligations under certain financial satisfied: contracts such as derivatives, securities financing transactions the entity has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised e. g. repurchase agreements, or long settlement transactions.
amounts: and Internal capital for counterparty credit risk is assessed and allocated the entity intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset based on the economic capital for wholesale credit risk calculation.
The and settle the liability simultaneously.
magnitude of the exposure is determined by considering the current mark to market of the contract, the historic volatility of the underlying Under US GAAP, netting is also permitted, regardless of the intention to asset and the time to maturity.
This allows calculation of a Credit settle on a net basis, where there is a counterparty master agreement Equivalent Exposure CEE for such exposures.
The total economic that would be enforceable in the event of bankruptcy.
capital for a portfolio of such exposures is then calculated in a manner similar to a book of loans.
Derivative counterparty credit risk measurement Credit Value Adjustments Wrong-way risk in a trading exposure arises when there is significant Barclays participates in derivative transactions, and is therefore correlation between the underlying asset and the counterparty, which exposed to counterparty credit risk or counterparty risk.
This is the in the event of default would lead to a significant mark to market loss.
risk that a counterparty will fail to make the future payments agreed in When assessing the credit exposure of a wrong-way trade, analysts the derivative contract.
This is considered as a separate risk to the take into account the correlation between the counterparty and the volatility of the mark to market payment flows.
Modelling this underlying asset as part of the sanctioning process.
counterparty risk is an important part of managing credit risk on derivative transactions.
Adjustments to the calculated CEE are considered on a case by case basis.
In the case of specific wrong-way risk trades, which are The counterparty risk arising under derivative transactions is taken into self-referencing or reference other entities within the same account when reporting the fair value of derivative positions.
The counterparty, specific approval by a senior credit officer is required.
adjustment to the value is known as Credit Value Adjustment.
It is the difference between the value of a derivative contract with a risk free Netting and collateral arrangements counterparty and that of a contract with the actual counterparty.
This Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where possible through netting is equivalent to the cost of hedging the counterparty risk, which is agreements whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same replicated by purchasing and selling credit default swaps CDS on the counterparty can be offset.
Group policy requires all netting counterparty to create a hedge position that mirrors the Expected arrangements to be legally documented.
The ISDA Master Agreement Exposure profile for the counterparty.
is the Groups preferred agreement for documenting over the counter OTC derivatives.
It provides the contractual framework within which Credit Value Adjustment for derivative positions are calculated as a dealing activities across a full range of OTC products are conducted function of the Expected Exposure, which is the average of future and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across hypothetical exposure values or mark to market for a single all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party transaction or group of transactions by the same counterparty, and the defaults or other predetermined events occur.
The majority of the CDS spread for a given horizon.
Groups OTC derivative exposures excluding those cleared via a central clearing counterparty are covered by ISDA master netting and ISDA In order to calculate the Expected Exposure, the expected mark to Credit Support Annex CSA collateral agreements.
market is calculated using Monte Carlo simulations of risk factors that may affect the valuation of the derivative.
These simulations include credit mitigants such as exposure netting, collateral, mandatory break clauses and set-off clauses.
Counterparties with appropriate credit mitigants will generate a lower Expected Exposure profile compared to counterparties without credit mitigants in place for the same derivative transactions.
328 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Financial guarantees and similar off-balance sheet commitments: Credit risk mitigation cash collateral may be held against these arrangements.
Barclays employs a range of techniques and strategies to actively mitigate credit risks to which it is exposed.
These can broadly be In exposure terms, the main portfolios that Barclays takes collateral for divided into three types: are home loans and reverse repurchase agreements with financial institutions.
netting and set-off: collateral: and The Group may also obtain collateral in the form of floating charges over receivables and inventory of corporate and other business risk transfer.
The value of this collateral varies from period to period depending on the level of receivables and inventory.
It is impracticable Barclays has detailed policies in place to ensure that credit risk to provide an estimate of the amount fair value or nominal value of mitigation is appropriately recognised and recorded.
The recognition of this collateral.
The Group may in some cases obtain collateral and other credit risk mitigation is subject to a number of considerations, credit enhancements at a counterparty level, which are not specific to a including ensuring legal certainty of enforceability and effectiveness, particular class of financial instrument.
The fair value of the credit ensuring the valuation and liquidity of the collateral is adequately enhancement gained has been apportioned across the relevant asset monitored, and ensuring the value of the collateral is not materially classes.
correlated with the credit quality of the obligor.
Assets other than cash are subject to regular revaluation to ensure they All three types of credit risk mitigation may be used by different areas continue to achieve appropriate mitigation of risk.
Customer of the Group for exposures with a full range of counterparties.
For agreements often include requirements for provision of additional instance, Investment Bank, Corporate Banking and other business collateral should valuations decline or credit exposure increase for areas may all take property, cash or other physical assets as collateral example due to market moves impacting a derivative exposure.
for exposures to retailers, property companies or other client types.
The carrying value of non-cash collateral reflects the fair value of the Netting and set-off physical assets limited to the carrying value of the asset where the In many jurisdictions in which Barclays operates, credit risk exposures exposure is over-collateralised.
In certain cases where active markets or can be reduced by applying netting and set-off.
In exposure terms, this recent valuations of the assets are not available, estimates are used.
For credit risk mitigation technique is used mainly in derivative and repo assets collateralised by residential or commercial property and certain transactions with financial institutions.
other physical assets, where it is not practicable to assess current market valuations of each underlying property, values reflect historical For derivative transactions, Barclays will often seek to enter into fair values updated for movements in appropriate external indices.
standard master agreements with counterparties e. g. ISDA.
These For further information on loan-to-value ratios in principal home loans master agreements allow for netting of credit risk exposure to a portfolios see page 132. counterparty resulting from a derivative transaction against Barclays obligations to the counterparty in the event of default, to produce a For assets collateralised by traded financial instruments, values reflect lower net credit exposure.
These agreements may also reduce mark to market or mark to model values of those assets, applying a settlement exposure e. g. for foreign exchange transactions by haircut where appropriate.
allowing for payments on the same day in the same currency to be set off against one another.
The net realisable value from a distressed sale of collateral obtained by the Group upon default or insolvency of a counterparty will in some In the majority of its portfolios Barclays uses the Internal Model cases be lower than the carrying value recognised above.
Assets Method IMM to calculate counterparty credit risk exposures.
obtained are normally sold, generally at auction, or realised in an orderly manner for the maximum benefit of the Group, the borrower Collateral and the borrowers other creditors in accordance with the relevant The Group has the ability to call on collateral in the event of default of insolvency regulations.
For business customers, in some the borrower or other counterparty, comprising: circumstances, where excess funds are available after repayment in full Home loans: a fixed charge over residential property in the form of of the outstanding loan, they are offered to any other, lower ranked, houses, flats and other dwellings: secured lenders.
Any additional funds are returned to the customer.
Barclays does not, as a rule, occupy repossessed properties for its Wholesale lending: a fixed charge over commercial property and business use or use assets obtained in its operations.
other physical assets, in various forms: Credit cards, unsecured and other retail lending: includes charges When property is taken as collateral it is monitored to ensure that the over motor vehicle and other physical assets: second lien charge over current value is not less than its value at origination.
Monitoring is residential property, which is subordinate to first charge held either undertaken at least once every three years for residential property, and by the Group or by another party: and finance lease receivables, for annually for commercial property.
More frequent monitoring is carried which typically the Group retains legal title to the leased asset and out where the property sector is subject to significant deterioration.
has the right to repossess the asset on the default of the borrower: Deterioration is monitored principally by geography.
Specific exercises Derivatives: Barclays also often seeks to enter into CSAs with to monitor property values may be undertaken where the property counterparties with which Barclays has master agreements in place.
sector in a given geography has been subject to significant These annexes to master agreements provide a mechanism for deterioration and where Barclays has a material concentration of further reducing credit risk, whereby collateral margin is posted on property collateral.
a regular basis typically daily or weekly to collateralise the mark to market exposure of a derivative portfolio: Reverse repurchase agreements: collateral typically comprises highly liquid securities which have been legally transferred to Barclays subject to an agreement to return them for a fixed price: and barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 329 Risk management Credit risk management continued Monitoring may be undertaken either at the level of an individual Risk transfer can also be used to reduce risk concentrations within property or at a portfolio level.
Monitoring on a portfolio level refers to portfolios lowering the impact of stress events.
a more frequent process of indexing collateral values on each individual loan, using a regional or national index, and updating LGD values.
Risk transfer transactions are undertaken with consideration to Where an appropriate local index is not available, property values are whether the collateral provider is correlated with the exposure, the monitored on an individual basis as part of the annual review process credit worthiness of the collateral provider and legal certainty of for the loan.
Where credit risk mitigation is deemed to transfer credit risk this exposure is appropriately recorded against For larger loans, property valuation is reviewed by an independent the credit risk mitigation provider.
valuer at least every three years, and an independent valuer also reviews the property valuation where information indicates that the The balances shown represent the notional value of the guarantees value of the property may have declined materially relative to general held by the Group issued by corporate and financial institutional market prices.
In addition, trigger points are defined under which counterparties.
In addition, the Group obtains guarantees from property values must be reviewed.
customers in respect of personal loans and smaller business loans, which are not reflected in the above table.
Liens over fluctuating assets such as inventory and trade receivables, known as floating charges, over the assets of a borrower are monitored In exposure terms, risk transfer is used most extensively as a credit risk annually.
The valuation of this type of collateral takes into account the mitigation technique for wholesale loans and derivative financial ability to establish objectively a price or market value, the frequency instruments.
with which the value can be obtained including a professional appraisal or valuation, and the volatility or a proxy for the volatility of For instruments that are deemed to transfer credit risk, in advanced IRB the value of the collateral.
portfolios the protection is recognised by using the PD and LGD of the protection provider.
Additional revaluations are usually performed when a loan is moved to EWL or WL.
More detail of when a corporate account may be moved to Off-balance sheet risk mitigation an EWL or WL may be found on page 322.
Exceptions to this may be The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies considered where it is clear a revaluation is not necessary, for instance for off-balance sheet risks as it does for its on-balance sheet risks.
In where there is a very high margin of security or a recent valuation has the case of commitments to lend, customers and counterparties will be been undertaken.
Conversely, a material reduction in the value of subject to the same credit management policies as for loans and collateral held represents an increase in credit risk and will often cause advances.
Collateral may be sought depending on the strength of the a loan to be placed on the EWL or WL.
counterparty and the nature of the transaction.
Any one of these events may also trigger a test for impairment, Asset credit quality depending on individual circumstances of the loan.
When calculating Loans and advances impairment, the difference between an assets carrying amount and the All loans and advances are categorised as either neither past due nor present value of all estimated cash flows discounted at the original impaired: past due but not impaired: or impaired, which includes effective interest rate will be recognised as impairment.
For the purposes of the disclosures on pages flows include the estimated fair value of the collateral which reflects the 122-123 and 127-128: results of the monitoring and review of collateral values as detailed above and valuations undertaken as part of our impairment process.
a loan is considered past due when the borrower has failed to make a payment when due under the terms of the loan contract.
Whether property values are updated as part of the annual review the impairment allowance includes allowances against financial process, or by indexation of collateral values, the updated collateral assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to values feed into the calculation of risk parameters for example Loss collective impairment.
Given Default which, in turn, feed into identified and unidentified impairment calculations at each balance sheet date.
loans neither past due nor impaired consist predominantly of wholesale and retail loans that are performing.
These loans, although Trends in loan loss rates incorporate the impact of any decrease in the unimpaired, may carry an unidentified impairment provision.
fair value of collateral held.
loans that are past due but not impaired consist predominantly of wholesale loans that are past due but individually assessed as not Where Barclays calculates regulatory capital under advanced IRB being impaired.
These loans, although individually assessed as regulations the benefit of collateral is generally taken by adjusting unimpaired, may carry an unidentified impairment provision.
For standardised portfolios the benefit of collateral is taken using the financial collateral comprehensive method: supervisory volatility impaired loans that are individually assessed consist predominantly adjustments approach.
of wholesale loans that are past due and for which an individual allowance has been raised.
Risk transfer impaired loans that are collectively assessed consist predominantly A range of instruments including guarantees, credit insurance, credit of retail loans that are one day or more past due for which a derivatives and securitisation can be used to transfer credit risk from collective allowance is raised.
Wholesale loans that are past due, one counterparty to another.
This mitigates credit risk in two main ways: individually assessed as unimpaired, but which carry an unidentified firstly, if the risk is transferred to a counterparty which is more credit impairment provision, are excluded from this category.
Refer to pages worthy than the original counterparty, then overall credit risk will 323-325 for further detail on Group Risk Impairment Policy.
have been reduced secondly, where recourse to the first counterparty remains, both counterparties must default before a loss materialises.
This will be less likely than the default of either counterparty individually so credit risk is reduced 330 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Home loans and credit card receivables that are subject to forbearance overall performance and prospects of the client.
Loans on forbearance in the retail portfolios are included in the collectively assessed impaired programmes will typically, but not always, attract a higher risk rating loans column in the tables on pages 127-128.
Included within than similar loans which are not.
A portion of wholesale loans under wholesale loans that are neither past due nor impaired are a portion of forbearance is included in the past due but not impaired column, loans that have been subject to forbearance or similar strategies as part although not all loans subject to forbearance are necessarily impaired of the Groups ongoing relationship with clients.
The loans will have an or past due.
Where wholesale loans under forbearance have been internal rating reflective of the level of risk to which the Group is impaired, these form part of individually assessed impaired loans.
exposed, bearing in mind the circumstances of the forbearance and the The Group uses the following internal measures to determine credit quality for loans that are performing: Retail Wholesale lending lending Probability Probability Default Credit quality description of default of default grade Strong 0.0-0.60% 0.0-0.05% 1-3 0.05-0.15% 4-5 0.15-0.30% 6-8 0.30-0.60% 9-11 Satisfactory 0.60-10.00% 0.60-2.15% 12-14 2.15-11.35% 15-19 Higher risk 10.00% 11.35% 20-21 For loans that are performing, these descriptions can be summarised Loans that are past due are monitored closely, with impairment as follows: allowances raised as appropriate and in line with the Groups impairment policies.
These loans are all considered Higher Risk for Strong there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered the purpose of this analysis of credit quality.
Debt securities Satisfactory whilst there is a high likelihood that the asset will be For assets held at fair value, the carrying value on the balance sheet will include, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer.
Most listed recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Group, the asset may not be collateralised, or may relate to retail facilities, such as and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies.
The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard & credit card balances and unsecured loans, which have been classified as satisfactory, regardless of the fact that the output of internal grading Poors or Moodys.
Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.
models may have indicated a higher classification.
At the lower end of this grade there are customers that are being more carefully monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of some deterioration, mortgages with a high loan to value ratio, and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.
Higher risk there is concern over the obligors ability to make payments when due.
However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency.
There may also be doubts over value of collateral or security provided.
However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 331
