Risk review Risk factors Risk factors The following information describes the material risks which the Group believes could cause its future results of operations, financial condition and prospects to differ materially from current expectations.
Certain of the risks described below also have the potential to adversely impact the Groups reputation and brand which could adversely affect the Groups results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Business conditions and the general economy Credit risk Barclays offers a very broad range of services to personal and Credit risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss if any of institutional customers, including governments.
The Group has its customers, clients or market counterparties fails to fulfil their significant activities in a large number of countries.
Consequently, contractual obligations to the Group.
there are many ways in which changes in business conditions and the economy in a single country or region or globally can adversely The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and impact profitability, whether at the level of the Group, the individual retail loans and advances together with the counterparty credit risk business units or specific countries of operation.
arising from derivative contracts entered into with its clients.
Other sources of credit risk arise from trading activities, including: debt During 2012, the economic environment in Barclays main markets was securities: settlement balances with market counterparties: available marked by generally weak or negative growth as measured by GDP, for sale investments: and reverse repurchase agreements.
It can also which has affected business, consumer and investor confidence across arise when an entitys credit rating is downgraded, leading to a fall these regions.
Economic performance in the near term remains in the value of Barclays investment.
In addition, the Group may incur uncertain and is expected to be subdued, which may in some cases significant unrealised gains or losses due solely to changes in the lead to material adverse impacts on the Groups operations, financial Groups credit spreads or those of third parties, as these changes may condition and prospects, through, for example, changes in credit affect the fair value of the Groups derivative instruments and the debt ratings, share price and solvency of counterparties, as well as higher securities that the Group holds or issues.
levels of impairment and default rates, lower revenues and higher costs.
A summary of the performance for each main geographical Risks area is as follows: An economic downturn The Groups results, financial condition and liquidity may continue to In the UK, the economy grew by 0.2% in 2012, but negative growth be adversely affected by the uncertainty around the global economy in the fourth quarter has led to expectations of another difficult year and the economies of certain areas where Barclays has operations.
The potential for persistent unemployment, higher interest The Groups performance is at risk from any deterioration in the rates and rising inflation may increase the pressure on disposable economic environment which may result from a number of incomes and affect an individuals ability to service debt with the uncertainties, including most significantly the following factors: potential to adversely impact performance in the Groups retail sector.
i Extent and sustainability of economic recovery, including impact of Although US economic performance in 2012 was largely positive, austerity measures on the European economies with growth slightly above 2%, the US economy grew by only 0.1% The threat of weaker economies in a number of countries in which in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Moreover, the unemployment rate the Group operates could lead to higher levels of unemployment, rising remained historically high and the risk of a failure of government inflation, potentially higher interest rates and falling property prices.
leaders to reach a more lasting fiscal agreement remains, both of Any deterioration in the global economic conditions could have an which increase uncertainty and contribute to a lack of business, adverse impact on the credit quality of the Groups customers and consumer and investor confidence and thus adversely affect Barclays counterparties and could lead to a reduction in recoverability and value US business operations.
of the Groups assets resulting in a requirement to increase the Groups level of impairment allowance.
The Eurozone saw negative growth during 2012 as it was impacted by the ongoing sovereign debt crisis.
Credit conditions have remained Growth rates in the UK, US, Europe and South Africa continue to have weak and a depressed housing sector, high unemployment implications for our portfolios, particularly in Europe where growth especially acute amongst the under-30 year old population, forecasts remain weak.
Rising unemployment and higher interest rates contracting GDP and high government deficits may in the near would reduce debt service ability in the retail sector with a knock-on term continue to adversely affect Barclays business operations effect on corporate credit.
The implementation of austerity measures in this region.
to address high levels of public debt has negatively impacted economic While South Africa experienced moderate economic growth in 2012, growth and led to rising unemployment in some European countries.
the housing sector showed some weakness towards the end of the The monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and year leading to uncertainty in the performance of the Absa business regulatory authorities may also have a significant adverse effect on in the near term.
a number of countries in which the Group operates.
The Groups profitability is subject to further uncertainty from the growth prospects For further information on specific risks to our business relating to for the Chinese economy and the effect that this may have on the a potential economic downturn and the continuing Eurozone crisis, recovery prospects of the global economy.
see below under credit risk.
108 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information ii Increase in unemployment due to weaker economies in a number If these trends in Spain and Portugal continue or worsen and or if of countries in which the Group operates these developments occur in other European countries such as Italy in During 2012 the unemployment rate in the Eurozone increased to which we have particular exposure to residential mortgages outside the 11.7% December 2011: 10.7% and remains particularly high in Spain UK, we may incur significant impairment charges in the future, which at 26.1% December 2011: 23.2%, although rates have declined in the may materially adversely affect the Groups results of operations and US to 7.8% December 2011: 8.5% and the UK to 7.8% December financial condition.
2011: 8.3% as businesses created jobs despite weak economies.
Throughout 2012 the South African housing sector has been depressed As customers ability to service their debt is particularly sensitive to reflecting a weak economy and uncertain outlook.
There is concern that unsecured personal debt levels are becoming very high.
If the their employment status, any increase in unemployment rates could lead to an increase in delinquency and default rates, particularly in economic environment worsens and becomes subject to further stress this could adversely affect the Groups performance in the home loan, credit cards and unsecured loan portfolios, which may, in turn, lead to a requirement to increase the Groups impairment allowances in the retail unsecured loan, auto and credit card portfolios.
In Absa Business Markets, the corporate property book remains sensitive to property sector.
Any increase in impairment or higher charge-off to recovery and write-offs could have a material adverse effect on the Groups results, prices, with reductions potentially leading to increased impairment charges.
financial condition and capital position.
iii Impact of rising inflation and potential interest rate rises on For further information see Retail Credit Risk and Wholesale Credit Risk pages 129-141. consumer debt affordability and corporate profitability Rising inflation resulting from central bank monetary policies or other factors, coupled with the potential for rising interest rates in response, v US Fiscal Cliff and debt ceiling negotiations could have significant adverse effects on both economic growth Following the temporary agreement reached at the turn of 2012 13 prospects and the ability of consumers and the corporate sector to concerning the expiry of tax cuts in the US federal budget as part of the service existing debt levels.
Consumer debt affordability is sensitive Fiscal Cliff legislative negotiations, considerable uncertainty remains to interest rates and so any rise, or series of increases, may lead to with regards to a longer term agreement, in particular with respect to a significant rise in the Groups impairment charges, particularly in potential adjustments to US federal government spending, for which unsecured products, such as credit cards and personal loans, and the Fiscal Cliff legislative negotiations are ongoing.
Failure to reach a adversely impact the Groups performance in a similar way to higher more lasting agreement may lead to a new recession in the US, which employment levels described above.
may have a significant adverse effect on the global economy and lead to negative pressures on the Groups profitability.
Such a failure could iv Possibility of further falls in residential property prices in the UK, also negatively impact upon market confidence, potentially leading to a reduction in investor appetite and liquidity in the US bond and loan South Africa and Western Europe With a 115bn UK home loan portfolio 50% of the Groups total loans markets, which would also impact upon the Groups profitability.
and advances to the retail sector, Barclays has a large exposure to adverse developments in the UK property sector.
The credit quality The Eurozone crisis of this portfolio, however, remains good with 76% of loans having a The Groups performance may be materially adversely affected by the Loan-to-Value LTV of equal to or less than 75%.
While arrears have actual or perceived increase in the risk of default on the sovereign debt remained steady and impairment modest in this property book the of certain European countries, the stresses currently being exerted on housing sector remains weak, despite continuing low interest rates.
the financial system within the Eurozone, and the risk that one or more This weakness may contribute to further impairment in the near term countries may exit the Euro.
resulting from a deterioration in house prices due to reduced affordability as a result of, for example, higher interest rates or i Impact of potentially deteriorating sovereign credit quality, increased unemployment.
particularly debt servicing and refinancing capability Concerns in the market about credit risk including that of sovereign Specifically, the UK interest only portfolio of 53bn remains more states and the Eurozone crisis remain high.
The large sovereign debts susceptible to weak property prices as these loans mature and and or fiscal deficits of a number of European countries and the customers are required to repay the entire principal outstanding sustainability of austerity programmes they have introduced have at a time when the loan to value may be high.
For further details raised concerns regarding the financial condition of some sovereign on the Groups exposure to interest only home loans and the states as well as financial institutions, insurers and other corporates quality of the portfolio, refer to page 135. that are: i located in these countries: ii have direct or indirect exposure to these countries both to sovereign and private sector debt and or iii whose banks, counterparties, custodians, customers, service The UK Commercial Real Estate sector also remains at risk from deterioration in the housing sector which may affect customer providers, sources of funding and or suppliers have direct or indirect exposure to these countries.
confidence levels causing further adverse movements in real estate.
This may result in higher levels of default rates in the corporate sector leading to higher impairment charges and write-offs by the Group.
The default, or a further decline in the credit rating, of one or more sovereigns or financial institutions could cause severe stress in the The Spanish and Portuguese economies, in particular their housing and financial system generally and could adversely affect the markets in which the Group operates, its businesses and the financial condition property sectors, remain under significant stress with falling property prices having led to higher LTV ratios and contributing to higher and prospects of the Group and that of its counterparties, customers, suppliers or creditors, directly or indirectly, in ways which it is difficult impairment charges.
For further information see Eurozone Exposure disclosures on pages 143-154. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 109 Risk review Risk factors continued ii Potential exit of one or more countries from the Euro as a result Specific sectors geographies of the European debt crisis The Group is subject to risks arising from changes in credit quality and An exit of one or more countries from the Eurozone may adversely recovery of loans and advances due from borrowers and counterparties impact the Groups profitability in a number of ways.
Risks associated from a specific portfolio, geography or large individual names remain.
with a potential partial break-up of the Euro area include: Any deterioration in credit quality would lead to lower recoverability and higher impairment in a specific sector, geography or specific large Direct risk arising from sovereign default of an exiting country and counterparties.
the impact on the economy of, and the Groups counterparties in, that country: i Possible deterioration in Credit Market Exposures Indirect risk arising from the subsequent impact on the economy The Investment Bank holds certain exposures to credit markets that of, and the Groups counterparties in, other Eurozone countries: became illiquid during 2007.
These exposures primarily relate to commercial real estate and leveraged finance loans.
The Group Indirect risk arising from credit derivatives that reference Eurozone continues to actively manage down these exposures, but remains sovereign debt: and at risk from further deterioration to the remaining exposures, resulting Direct redenomination risk on the potential mismatch in the currency in further impairment.
During 2012, credit market exposures decreased of the assets and liabilities on balance sheets of the Groups local by 5.9bn to 9.3bn, mainly reflecting net sales and paydowns and operations in countries in the Eurozone.
Although the Group reduced the aggregate net funding mismatch in For further information see Barclays Credit Market Exposure Section local balance sheets during 2012 from 12.1bn to a 1.9bn surplus in page 142.
Spain, from 6.9bn to 3.3bn in Portugal and from 12.0bn to 9.6bn in Italy, there can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Group ii Potential liquidity shortages increasing counterparty risks to actively match local external assets with local external liabilities will The Groups ability to enter into its normal funding arrangements could be fully successful.
be materially affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions.
The Group has exposure to many different Furthermore the departure from and or the abandonment of the Euro industries and counterparties and should funding capacity in either by one or more Eurozone countries could lead to significant negative the wholesale markets or central bank operations change significantly, effects on both existing contractual relations and the fulfilment of liquidity shortages could result, which may lead to increased obligations by the Group and or its customers, which would have a counterparty risk with other financial institutions.
This could also have negative impact on the activity, operating results, capital position and an impact on refinancing risks in the corporate and retail sectors.
While financial condition of the Group.
An exit by a country from the Euro the Group continues to actively manage this risk, including through its may also adversely affect the economic performance of that country, extensive system of Mandate and Scale limits, the performance of the impacting areas such as interest and unemployment rates, which in Group remains at risk from a material liquidity shortage.
turn may adversely affect our retail and wholesale counterparties including a countrys government or its agencies solvency and their iii Large single name losses ability to service their debts.
This may lead to additional impairment In the ordinary course of our loan business, we have large individual or a reduction in value of Barclays credit assets in that country, which exposures to individual single name counterparties.
We are accordingly would adversely impact the Groups profitability.
exposed to the credit risk of such counterparties in the event of their default of their obligations to us.
If such defaults occur, they may The current absence of a predetermined mechanism for a member have a significant impact on the impairment charge particularly in state to exit the Euro means that it is not possible to predict the Investment Bank and the larger business book in Corporate Banking.
outcome of such an event and to accurately quantify the impact of In addition, where such counterparty risk has been mitigated by taking such an event on the Groups profitability, liquidity and capital.
collateral, our credit risk may remain high if the collateral we hold cannot be realised or has to be liquidated at prices which are insufficient However, the Group has performed, and continues to perform, to recover the full amount of our loan or derivative exposure.
stress tests to model the event of a break-up of the Eurozone area.
Contingency planning has also been undertaken based on a series For further information see Wholesale Credit Risk disclosures on of potential scenarios that might arise from an escalation in the crisis.
Multiple tests have been run to establish the impact on customers, systems, processes and staff in the event of the most plausible scenarios.
Where issues have been identified, appropriate remedial actions have either been completed or are underway.
For further information see Eurozone Exposure disclosures on pages 143-154.
110 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Market risk Funding risk Barclays is at risk from its earnings or capital being reduced due to: Funding risk is the risk that the Group is unable to achieve its business plans due to: Traded market risk, where Barclays supports customer activity primarily via the Investment Bank and is the risk of the Group being Capital risk: the risk that the Group is unable to maintain appropriate impacted by changes in the level or volatility of positions in its trading capital ratios which could lead to: an inability to support business books.
This includes changes in interest rates, inflation rates, credit activity: a failure to meet regulatory requirements: and or changes spreads, property prices, commodity prices, equity and bond prices to credit ratings, which could also result in increased costs or and foreign exchange levels: reduced capacity to raise funding: Non-traded market risk, to support customer products primarily in Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations the retail bank and is the risk of the Group being unable to hedge its as they fall due resulting in: an inability to support normal business banking book balance sheet at prevailing market levels: and activity, a failure to meet liquidity regulatory requirements: and or changes to credit ratings: and Pension risk, where the investment profile is reviewed versus the defined benefit scheme and is the risk of the Groups defined benefit Structural risk: this risk predominantly arises from the impact on obligations increasing or the value of the assets backing these the Groups balance sheet of changes in primarily interest rates on defined benefit obligations decreasing due to changes in both the income or foreign exchange rates on capital ratios and is, therefore, level and volatility of prices.
difficult to predict with any accuracy and may have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Risks Specific areas and scenarios where market risk could lead to significantly lower revenues and adversely affect our results of For further information see pages 162-186. operations in future years include: Risks i Reduced client activity and decreased market liquidity i Increasing capital requirements The Investment Bank business model is focused on client There are a number of regulatory developments that impact capital intermediation.
A significant reduction in client volumes or market requirements.
Most significantly Basel 3 which is planned to be liquidity could result in lower fees and commission income and a adopted into EU law through the fourth Capital Requirements Directive longer time period between executing a client trade, closing out a CRD IV and Capital Requirements Regulation which are on-going hedge, or exiting a position arising from that trade.
Longer holding through the EU legislative process.
Additional capital requirements may periods in times of higher volatility could lead to revenue volatility arise from other proposals including the recommendations of the UK caused by price changes.
Such conditions could adversely impact Independent Commission on Banking, including with respect to the Groups financial results in future periods.
ring-fencing separately the trading and non-trading businesses of banks: The Financial Services Banking Reform Bill: EU Review: and, For further information see market risk management pages 155-161. section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
For more information see Operational Risk - Legal and Regulatory Related Risks below.
ii Uncertain interest rate environment Interest rate volatility can impact Barclays net interest margin, which is Increased capital requirements and changes to what is defined to constitute capital may constrain the Groups planned activities and the interest rate spread realised between lending and borrowing costs.
The potential for future volatility and margin changes remains, and it could increase costs and contribute to adverse impacts on the Groups earnings.
During periods of market dislocation, increasing is difficult to predict with any accuracy changes in absolute interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads.
Most developed economies are the Groups capital resources in order to meet targets may prove more difficult or costly.
currently operating under historically low rates.
Consequently the net interest margin earned by Barclays is reduced.
This margin would likely compress further were central bank rates to be cut.
Rate changes, to Barclays continues to prepare for the implementation of CRD IV and the extent they are not neutralised by hedging programmes, may have includes the estimated impact of future regulatory changes in its a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial capital planning framework.
Current forecasts already include the condition and prospects.
impact of Basel 3 as currently understood, and forecasts will be continually updated as CRD IV and other proposals for regulatory developments are finalised.
Further detail on the regulatory For further information see market risk management pages 155-161. developments impacting capital is included on pages 190-195. iii Pension fund risk ii Maintaining capital strength Adverse movements between pension assets and liabilities for defined benefit pension schemes could contribute to a pension deficit.
The key A material adverse deterioration in the Groups financial performance can affect the Groups capacity to support further capital deployment.
sensitivities are the discount rate and long term inflation assumptions made in determining the defined benefit obligation.
The discount rate The Capital Plan is continually monitored against the internal target capital ratios to ensure the Plan remains appropriate.
The capital is derived from yields of corporate bonds with AA-ratings and consequently includes exposure both to risk-free yields and credit management process also includes an internal and regulatory stress testing process which informs the Group Capital Plan.
Barclays defined benefit pension net position has been adversely affected, and could be adversely affected again, by decreases on the Groups regulatory capital resources is included on page 163. in discount rate or an increase in long term inflation assumptions.
For further information see market risk management pages 155-161. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 111 Risk review Risk factors continued iii Changes in funding availability and costs Operational risk Market liquidity and the availability and cost of customer deposits and Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect impacts resulting from wholesale funding impacts the Groups ability to meet its obligations human factors, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or as they fall due, support normal business activity and meet liquidity external events.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business regulatory requirements.
Large unexpected outflows, for example from activities and include those relating to the conduct of employees and customer withdrawals, ratings downgrades or loan drawdowns, could the Bank as a whole and consider the reputational impact of risks also result in forced reduction in the balance sheet, inability to fulfil should they occur.
lending obligations and a failure to meet liquidity regulatory requirements.
During periods of market dislocation, the Groups ability For further information see Operational risk management page 187. to manage liquidity requirements may be impacted by a reduction in the availability of wholesale term funding as well as an increase in the Risks cost of raising wholesale funds.
Asset sales, balance sheet reductions Legal and regulatory related risks and the increasing costs of raising funding will affect the earnings of i Legal risk the Group.
The Group is subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in all countries in which it operates and so is exposed to many forms The liquidity profile of the Group is monitored constantly and is of legal risk, including that: i business may not be conducted in supported by a range of early warning indicators to ensure the profile accordance with applicable laws in the relevant jurisdictions around remains appropriate and sufficient liquid resources are held to protect the world and financial and other penalties may result: ii contractual against unexpected outflows.
Further details are provided in the obligations may either not be enforceable as intended or may be Funding Risk Liquidity section on pages 172-186. enforced in a way adverse to the Group: iii intellectual property may not be adequately protected: and iv liability for damages may iv Downgrade in credit ratings be incurred to third parties harmed by the conduct of the Groups Credit ratings affect the cost and other terms upon which the Group business.
The Group also faces regulatory and other investigations is able to obtain funding.
Rating agencies regularly evaluate the Group in various jurisdictions, including in the US.
and certain of its subsidiaries, as well as their respective debt securities.
Their ratings are based on a number of factors, including their Furthermore, the Group, like many other financial institutions, has assessment of the relative financial strength of the Group or of the come under greater regulatory scrutiny in recent years and expects relevant entity, as well as conditions affecting the financial services that environment to continue see Regulatory Risk for further details.
industry generally and there can be no assurance that the rating agencies will maintain the Groups or the relevant entitys current Key legal proceedings to which the Group was exposed during 2012 ratings or outlook, especially in light of the difficulties in the financial and continues to be exposed include those relating to: services industry and the financial markets.
Lehman Brothers: During 2012, Barclays Bank PLC rating was downgraded by Moodys, Certain series of preference shares issued in the form of American from Aa3 P-1 C to A2 P-1 C-, as a result of the agencys rating Depositary Shares: repositioning of banks and securities firms with global capital market operations, and by DBRS, from AA High R-1 High to AA R-1 High, as Residential mortgage backed securities: the result of the resignation of senior management during the summer.
Devonshire Trust: and Credit rating downgrades could result in contractual outflows to meet LIBOR Civil Actions see also competition and regulatory matters collateral requirements on existing contracts and potential loss of discussed below.
The aggregate contractual outflows to meet our collateral requirements on existing contracts following a one and two For more detailed information on each of these proceedings, see notch long term and associated short term simultaneous downgrades Note 29 to the financial statements.
The outcome of each of these across all credit rating agencies, would be 13bn and 17bn legal proceedings is difficult to predict.
However, it is likely that the respectively.
See page 182 in the Funding risk Liquidity section for Group will incur significant expense in connection with these matters further information on Barclays credit rating and potential outflows and one or more of them could expose the Group to any of the relating to credit downgrades.
following: substantial monetary damages: other penalties and injunctive relief: potential regulatory restrictions on the Groups v Local balance sheet management and redenomination risk business: and or negative effect on the Groups reputation.
The introduction of capital controls or new currencies by countries for example in the Eurozone to mitigate current stresses could have an adverse impact on the performance of local balance sheets of certain Group companies depending on the asset quality, types of collateral and mix of liabilities.
Local assets and liability positions are carefully monitored by local asset and liability committees with oversight by Group Treasury.
Further detail on the Groups exposures to Eurozone countries is included on pages 143-154.
112 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Key competition and regulatory matters affecting Barclays during 2012 ii Regulatory risk and which are ongoing are described in Competition and Regulatory Regulatory risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully with the Matters Note 30.
A description of the associated risks for each is set laws, regulations or codes applicable specifically to the financial out below: services industry which are currently subject to significant changes.
Non-compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to Interchange investigations: The key risks arising from the reputation, increased prudential requirements, enforced suspension of investigations into Visa and MasterCard credit and debit interchange operations or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorisations to rates comprise the potential for fines imposed by competition operate.
Non-compliance may also lead to costs relating to authorities, follow on litigation and proposals for new legislation.
It is investigations and remediation of affected customers.
The latter may not currently possible to predict the likelihood or impact of these exceed the direct costs of regulatory enforcement actions.
In addition, risks: reputational damage may lead to a reduction in franchise value.
London Interbank Offered Rates LIBOR investigations: The risks associated with investigations by various authorities into submissions Regulatory change made by Barclays and other panel members to the bodies that set The banking industry continues to be subject to unprecedented levels various interbank offered rates include: the potential for further of regulatory change and scrutiny in many of the countries in which financial penalties imposed by governmental authorities in addition the Group operates.
This has led to a more intensive approach to to those assessed in 2012: the pending and potential additional civil supervision and oversight, increased expectations and enhanced litigation: damage to Barclays reputation: the potential for criminal requirements, including capital and liquidity requirements for example prosecution should Barclays violate the terms of its non-prosecution relating to Basel 3 and CRD IV, resolvability and the clearing of agreement with the Department of Justice, Criminal Division Fraud over-the-counter OTC derivatives.
As a result, regulatory risk will Section: and potential further regulatory enforcement action should continue to focus senior management attention and consume Barclays fail to comply with the Cease and Desist Order entered significant levels of business resource.
Furthermore, uncertainty and against it by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC : the extent of international regulatory coordination as enhanced supervisory standards are developed and implemented may adversely Interest Rate Hedging Products: The provision of 850m that affect our ability to engage in effective business, capital and risk Barclays has made in 2012 for future redress to customers management planning.
categorised as non-sophisticated has been based on the best currently available information see Note 27 to the financial Structural reform statements for further details, however there is a risk that the A number of regulators are currently proposing or considering provision may need to be increased to the extent that experience is legislation that could have a significant impact on the structure of the not in line with management estimates.
Barclays is managing this financial services industry.
Key developments or potential risk by keeping the provision level under ongoing review.
In addition, developments of particular relevance to Barclays are: customers could initiate civil litigation against Barclays in connection with the sale of interest rate hedging products: The UK Financial Services Banking Reform Bill: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC investigation: Barclays The EU High Level Expert Group Review the Liikanen Review : and may be required to pay a civil penalty and profit disgorgement plus Federal Reserve proposals to implement section165 of the Doddinterest, and could incur damage to its reputation, if it is found to Frank Act for foreign banks.
have violated the FERCs Anti-Manipulation Rule in connection with Barclays power trading in the western US with respect to the period See Regulatory Developments in the section on Supervision and from late 2006 to 2008, although Barclays intends to defend this Regulation page 192 for further information on these proposed matter vigorously: and reforms.
Other Regulatory investigations: These relate to investigations by the FSA and Serious Fraud Office in connection with certain commercial These regulations could result in changes to the structure of Barclays, agreements between Barclays and Qatari interests and whether these and an increase in the amount of loss-absorbing capital issued by may have related to Barclays capital raisings in June and November Barclays, which may have an adverse impact on profitability, return on 2008 and an investigation by the US Department of Justice and US equity and or financial condition.
It is not yet possible to predict the Securities and Exchange Commission into whether the Groups detail of secondary legislation or regulatory rulemaking or the ultimate relationships with third parties who assist Barclays to win or retain consequences to the Group.
business are compliant with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The risk of these investigations is that one or more of the relevant authorities will conclude that Barclays and or one or more of its current or former senior employees has been involved in some form of wrongdoing.
It is not possible to foresee the outcome or impact of such findings other than that a fine or a number of fines would be possible.
Barclays is cooperating fully with the investigations.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 113 Risk review Risk factors continued Conduct related issues The impact of the CRD IV rules, including with respect to the There are also a number of areas where Barclays conduct has not met calculation of capital and risk weighted assets, and the timing of the expectations of regulators and other stakeholders and where the implementation including the application of transitional relief, have not Group has sustained financial and reputational damage in 2012, and been finalised and remain subject to change by European legislators.
where the consequences are likely to endure into 2013 and beyond.
The FSA may also alter its stated approach to the adoption of CRD IV in the United Kingdom.
For example, the scope of application of the These include participation in benchmark rates and LIBOR and interest volatility charge for credit value adjustments CVA may be different from that expected and restrictions may be applied on the maturity rate hedging products, which are discussed in the Legal Risk section above and PPI.
Provisions totalling 850m have been raised in respect of hedges over to insignificant financial holdings, with the result that individually and or in aggregate such changes may materially of interest rate hedging products in 2012, and provisions of 2.6bn negatively affect Barclays CRD IV capital, leverage, liquidity and have been raised against PPI in 2011-2012.
To the extent that funding ratios.
experience is not in line with management estimates, additional provisions may be required and further reputational damage may iv Recovery and resolution plans RRP be incurred.
Note 27 details key provision assumptions and sensitivities for these provisions.
The strong regulatory focus on resolvability has continued in 2012, from both UK and international regulators.
The Group continues to work with the authorities on RRP and the detailed practicalities of the Furthermore, the Group is from time to time subject to regulatory resolution process.
This includes the provision of information that investigations.
The risk of these investigations to Barclays is that, would be required in the event of a resolution, in order to enhance a number of or all of the authorities will conclude that Barclays has Barclays resolvability.
The Group made its first formal RRP submissions been involved in some form of wrongdoing.
It is not possible to foresee to the UK and US regulators in mid-2012 and has continued to the outcome or impact of such findings other than that fines or other work with the authorities to identify and address any impediments forms of regulatory censure would be possible.
This includes the to resolvability.
investigation by the United States FERC into the Groups conduct see Legal Risk above.
Should the authorities decide that Barclays is not resolvable they have the ability to demand that the Group is broken into sections that are There is a risk that there may be other conduct issues, including in deemed resolvable.
The impact of such structural changes could business already written, that Barclays is not presently aware of.
impact capital, liquidity and leverage ratios, due to reduced benefits of diversification, as well as the overall profitability, via duplicated Further details on PPI and interest rate hedging products, including a infrastructure costs, lost cross-rate revenues and additional funding costs.
description of management judgements and estimates and sensitivity analysis on those estimates where available are provided in Note 27 Other operational risks to the financial statements.
Further details on the FERC investigations v Reputation risk are provided in Note 30 to the financial statements.
Reputation risk, meaning the risk of damage to the Barclays brand arising from any association, action or inaction which is perceived by In addition to the risks highlighted under Legal Risk, Barclays stakeholders to be inappropriate or unethical, is inherent in our participates in the setting of number of interest rate benchmarks.
Reputational damage can result from the actual or perceived The setting of benchmarks is subject to increased scrutiny and manner in which we conduct our business activities, from our financial additional regulation in a number of jurisdictions, with enhanced performance, or from actual or perceived practices in the banking and sanctions including potential criminal sanctions and attendant financial industry.
Such reputational damage reduces directly or damage to Barclays reputation for violations.
Barclays may also be indirectly the attractiveness of Barclays to stakeholders and may lead required to contribute to benchmarks due to its presence in certain to negative publicity, loss of revenue, litigation, regulatory or legislative markets.
The UK FSA is considering the use of such powers.
action, loss of existing or potential client business, reduced workforce morale, and difficulties in recruiting talent.
Sustained reputational Further details on the LIBOR investigations are provided in Note 29 damage could have a materially negative impact on our licence to and Note 30 to the financial statements.
For further information on operate and destroy shareholder value.
developments further to the Wheatley Review recommendations related to the setting of LIBOR, see Supervision and Regulation vi Infrastructure resilience, Technology and CyberSecurity page 194.
Events across the industry during 2012 have reinforced the importance of infrastructure resilience to the banking infrastructure to allow iii Implementation of Basel 3 customers to access their accounts and make payments in a timely The new capital requirements regulation and capital requirements fashion.
The Group recognises that this is an area of risk that continues directive that implement Basel 3 within the EU collectively known to change rapidly and so requires continued focus.
It has invested as CRD IV include significant developments in the regulatory capital significant resources in building defences to counter these threats regime including: increased minimum capital ratios: changes to for many years and will continue to do so in the future.
the definition of capital and the calculation of risk weighted assets: and the introduction of new measures relating to leverage, liquidity Any disruption in a customers access to their account information and funding.
The requirements are under consideration and are or delays in making payments will have a significant impact on the expected to be finalised during 2013: however the implementation Groups reputation and may also lead to potentially large costs to both date is uncertain.
rectify the issue and reimburse losses incurred by customers.
However, given that it is not possible to predict the level or impact of such an event, should it occur, it is not possible to accurately quantify either the reputational damage or associated costs to the Group.
114 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Furthermore, Barclays recognises the growing threat of attacks to its viii Taxation risk systems, customers and Groups information held on customers and The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it transactions processed through these systems from individuals or operates, including tax laws adopted at an EU level, and is impacted groups via cyberspace the interdependent network of information by a number of double taxation agreements between countries.
technology infrastructures, and includes technology tools such as the internet, telecommunications networks, computer systems, There is potential risk that the Group could suffer losses due to a and embedded processors and controllers in critical industries.
additional tax charges, other financial costs or reputational damage The implementation of measures to manage the risk involves due to: failure to comply with or correctly assess the application of, continued investment and use of internal resources.
relevant tax law: failure to deal with tax authorities in a timely, transparent and effective manner: incorrect calculation of tax However, given the increasing sophistication and scope of potential estimates for reported and forecast tax numbers: or provision of attacks via cyberspace, it is possible that in the future such attacks incorrect tax advice.
may lead to significant breaches leading to associated costs and reputational damage although these cannot be quantified to any For further information see the Financial Review pages 197-224 and degree of accuracy at this time due to the uncertain nature and impact the Tax note pages 247-250. of any such attack.
vii Transform Programme In February 2013, we presented the results of our Strategic Review and the elements of our Transform Programme which is the plan by which Barclays will become the Go-To bank for our stakeholders.
See further discussion in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 8-9 for more information.
As part of the Transform Programme, we will seek to, among other initiatives, restructure Barclays European retail operations to focus on the mass affluent customer segment, manage risk weighted assets more efficiently through run-off of legacy assets in Europe and the Investment Bank, and reduce total costs significantly across the Group.
As a result of certain commitments made in the Review, Barclays expects to incur a restructuring charge of approximately 500m in the first quarter of 2013 and costs associated with implementing the strategic plan of approximately 1bn in 2013, 1bn in 2014 and 0.7bn in 2015.
The development and implementation of our Strategy Review requires difficult, subjective and complex judgements, including forecasts of economic conditions in various parts of the world.
We may fail to correctly identify the trends we seek to exploit and the relevant factors in making decisions as to capital deployment and cost reduction.
Our ability to execute our strategy may also be limited by our operational capacity and the increasing complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate.
Moreover, there is a risk that the restructuring costs associated with implementing the Transform Programme may be higher than our current expectations.
Failure to successfully implement the Transform Programme could have a material adverse effect on the expected benefits of the Transform Programme.
In addition, factors beyond our control, including but not limited to the market and economic conditions such as the risk of an economic downturn and other challenges discussed in detail above, could limit or delay our ability to achieve all of the expected benefits of the Transform Programme.
Note a As defined by the World Economic Forums Partnership for Cyber Resilience, of which Barclays is a member.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 115
