Risk review Supervision and regulation All disclosures in this section pages 190-195 are unaudited The Banking Act 2009 the Banking Act provides a regime to allow the Supervision and regulation Bank of England or, in certain circumstances, HM Treasury to resolve Supervision of the Group failing banks in the UK, in consultation with the FSA and HM Treasury The Groups operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries and as appropriate.
Under the Banking Act, these authorities are given associates, are subject to a significant body of rules and regulations powers, including a the power to make share transfer orders pursuant that are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial to which all or some of the securities issued by a UK bank may be services business.
These apply to business operations and affect transferred to a commercial purchaser or the UK government: and b financial returns and include reserve and reporting requirements and the power to transfer all or some of the property, rights and liabilities prudential and conduct of business regulations.
These requirements of a UK bank to a commercial purchaser or Bank of England entity.
are set by the relevant central banks and regulatory authorities that A share transfer order can extend to a wide range of securities including supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The shares and bonds issued by a UK bank including Barclays Bank PLC requirements reflect global standards developed by, among others, or its holding company Barclays PLC and warrants for such shares the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the International and bonds.
From 1 April 2013, certain of these powers will be extended Organisation of Securities Commissions.
They also reflect requirements to companies within the same group as a UK bank.
The Banking Act of or derived from EU legislation.
also gives the authorities powers to override events of default or termination rights that might be invoked as a result of the exercise In the UK, until 31 March 2013, the Financial Services Authority FSA of the resolution powers.
The Banking Act powers apply regardless remains the independent body responsible for the regulation and of any contractual restrictions and compensation may be payable in supervision of deposit taking, life insurance, home mortgages, general the context of both share transfer orders and property appropriation.
The Banking Act also gives the Bank of England the power to override, Following the passage of the Financial Services Act 2012, the Bank vary or impose contractual obligations between a UK bank, its holding of England will have responsibility for monitoring the financial system company and its group undertakings for reasonable consideration, in as a whole and the system of regulation in the UK will be reorganised.
order to enable any transferee or successor bank to operate effectively.
From 1 April 2013, the regulation and supervision of the Group will be There is also power for HM Treasury to amend the law excluding divided between the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA which is provisions made by or under the Banking Act for the purpose of established as a subsidiary of the Bank of England and the Financial enabling it to use the regime powers effectively, potentially with Conduct Authority FCA.
In addition, the Financial Policy Committee retrospective effect.
In addition, the Banking Act gives the Bank of FPC of the Bank of England will have significant influence on the England statutory responsibility for financial stability in the UK and prudential requirements that may be imposed on the banking system.
for the oversight of payment systems.
It is also intended that it will have a number of macro-prudential tools at its disposal that may be used to vary the prudential requirements The Financial Services Act 2010, among other things, requires the UK to which the Group is subject, including the power to vary the counterregulator to make rules about remuneration and to require regulated cyclical capital buffer and to vary sectoral capital requirements.
Further firms to have a remuneration policy that is consistent with both details on the reform of regulation in the UK can be found below.
effective risk management and the standards issued by the Financial Stability Board.
The FSA is mandated to make rules that require The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA as amended authorised firms or a subset of authorised firms to draw up recovery remains the principal statute under which financial institutions are and resolution plans and to consult with HM Treasury and the Bank regulated in the UK.
Barclays Bank PLC is authorised under the FSMA of England on the adequacy of firms plans.
This Act also allows the to carry on a range of regulated activities within the UK and is subject FSA to make rules requiring firms to operate a collective consumer to consolidated prudential supervision by the FSA and, from 1 April, by redress scheme to deal with cases of widespread failure by regulated the PRA.
In its role as supervisor, the FSA seeks to maintain the safety firms to meet regulatory requirements that may have created and soundness of financial institutions with the aim of strengthening, consumer detriment.
but not guaranteeing, the protection of customers and the financial system.
The FSAs continuing supervision of financial institutions is In addition to establishing the FPC, PRA and FCA, the Financial Services conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the collection Act 2012 among other things, clarifies responsibilities between HM of information from statistical and prudential returns, reports obtained Treasury and the Bank of England in the event of a financial crisis by from skilled persons, visits to firms and regular meetings with giving the Chancellor of the Exchequer powers to direct the Bank of management to discuss issues such as performance, risk management England where public funds are at risk and there is a serious threat to and strategy.
This will remain the case under the PRA.
financial stability: it establishes the objectives and accountabilities of the new regulatory bodies: amends the Threshold Conditions for Firms are subject to a rolling programme of continuous intensive and authorisation: and gives the new bodies additional powers, including intrusive engagement on prudential and conduct matters.
The FSA also powers of direction over the unregulated parent undertakings such as promulgates requirements that banks and other financial institutions Barclays PLC where this is necessary to ensure effective consolidated are required to meet on matters such as capital adequacy, limits on supervision of the Group: and a power for the FCA to make temporary large exposures to individual entities and groups of closely connected product intervention rules for a maximum period of six months, if entities, liquidity and rules of business conduct.
From 1 April 2013, necessary without consultation.
The Act also gives the FCA the power the regulation and supervision of conduct matters will be assumed to set rules in relation to the setting of benchmarks and creates a by the FCA.
new criminal offence relating to the making of a false or misleading statement, or the creation of a false or misleading impression, in connection with the setting of a benchmark.
190 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK are subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the US banking subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, including Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS which operates when an authorised firm is unable or is likely to be unable to meet the International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended BHC Act, the Foreign Bank Supervision claims made against it because of its financial circumstances.
Most deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within the European Enhancement Act of 1991, the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Economic Area EEA which are denominated in Sterling or other currencies are covered by the FSCS.
Most claims made in respect of Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 DFA.
This framework regulates the activities of Barclays, including its US banking subsidiaries investment business will also be protected claims if the business was carried on from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm and the US branches of Barclays Bank PLC, as well as imposing prudential restrictions, such as limits on extensions of credit by the in another EEA member state.
The FSCS is funded by levies on authorised UK firms such as Barclays Bank PLC.
In the event that the Banks US branches and the US banking subsidiaries to a single borrower and to affiliates.
The New York and Florida branches of FSCS raises those funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by firms, the associated costs to the Group may have a Barclays Bank PLC are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation by the FRB and, as applicable, the New York State material impact on the Groups results.
Further details can be found in Note 28 on page 280.
Department of Financial Services and the Florida Office of Financial Regulation.
Barclays Bank Delaware, a Delaware chartered commercial bank, is subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Deposit Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators Insurance Corporation FDIC, the Delaware State Bank Commissioner located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
The deposits of Switzerland, Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory Barclays Bank Delaware are insured by the FDIC.
Barclays Wealth authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the Trustees US NA is an uninsured non-depository trust company Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Financial Services Agency of Japan, chartered and supervised by the Office of the Comptroller of the the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, the Monetary Currency OCC.
The licensing authority of each US branch of Barclays Authority of Singapore, the China Banking Regulatory Commission Bank PLC has the authority, in certain circumstances, to take and the Reserve Bank of India : Africa and the Middle East various possession of the business and property of Barclays Bank PLC located regulatory authorities including the South African Reserve Bank and in the state of the office it licenses or to revoke or suspend such license.
the United States of America including the Board of Governors of the Such circumstances generally include violations of law, unsafe business Federal Reserve System FRB, the Securities and Exchange Commission practices and insolvency.
SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC are bank holding companies Regulation in the UK is considerably shaped and influenced by EU registered with the FRB, which exercises umbrella authority over directives and regulations.
These provide the structure of the European Barclays US operations.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC have each Single Market, an important feature of which is the framework for the elected to be treated as a financial holding company under the BHC regulation of authorised firms.
This framework is designed to enable a Act.
Financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of credit institution or investment firm authorised in one EU member state financial and related activities than are permitted to registered bank to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment holding companies that do not maintain financial holding company of branches or by the provision of services on a cross-border basis in status, including underwriting and dealing in all types of securities.
other member states without the need for local authorisation.
Barclays Financial holding companies such as Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank operations in Europe are authorised and regulated by a combination of PLC are required to meet or exceed certain capital ratios and be both home and host regulators.
deemed to be well managed, and Barclays Bank Delaware and Barclays Wealth Trustees US NA are each required to meet certain capital Barclays operations in South Africa, including Absa Group Limited, are requirements and be deemed to be well managed.
In order for supervised and mainly regulated by the South African Reserve Bank Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC to maintain their status as financial SARB, the Financial Services Board FSB as well as the Department holding companies, Barclays Bank Delaware must be both well of Trade and Industry DTI.
SARB oversees the banking industry and capitalised and well managed under applicable regulatory standards.
follows a risk-based approach to supervision, whilst the FSB oversees In addition, Barclays Bank Delaware must have at least a satisfactory the non-banking financial services industry such as insurance and rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 CRA.
Entities investment business and focuses on enhancing consumer protection ceasing to meet any of these requirements, are allotted a period of time and regulating market conduct.
The DTI regulates consumer credit in which to restore capital levels or the management or CRA rating.
through the National Credit Act NCA 2005, as well as other aspects Should Barclays PLC or Barclays Bank PLC fail to meet the above of consumer protection not regulated under the jurisdiction of the FSB requirements, during the allotted period of time they could be through the Consumer Protection Act CPA 2008.
It is intended that prohibited from engaging in new types of financial activities or making regulatory responsibilities in South Africa will in future be divided certain types of acquisitions.
If the capital level or rating is not restored, between the SARB which will be responsible for prudential regulation the Group may be required by the FRB to cease certain activities in the and the FSB will be responsible for matters of market conduct.
precise timing for the move to twin peaks regulation remains to be determined.
Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act of 1950, as amended by the DFA, Barclays is required to act as a source of financial strength for Barclays Bank Delaware.
This could, among other things, require Barclays to inject capital into Barclays Bank Delaware if it fails to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 191 Risk review Supervision and regulation continued A major focus of US government policy relating to financial institutions Global in recent years has been combating money laundering and terrorist The programme of reform of the global regulatory framework that was financing and enforcing compliance with US economic sanctions.
agreed by G20 Heads of Government in April 2009 has continued to be Regulations applicable to US operations of Barclays Bank PLC and its taken forward during 2012. subsidiaries impose obligations to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money The FSB has been designated by the G20 as the body responsible for laundering and terrorist financing and to ensure compliance with US co-ordinating the delivery of the global reform programme.
It has economic sanctions against designated foreign countries, nationals focused particularly on the risks posed by systemically important and others.
Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement financial institutions.
In 2011, G20 Heads of Government adopted FSB adequate programmes to combat money laundering and terrorist proposals to reform the regulation of globally systematically important financing or to ensure economic sanction compliance could have financial institutions G-SIFIs.
A key element of this programme is that serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.
In G-SIFIs should be capable of being resolved without recourse to particular, on August 16, 2010, the United States filed in the United taxpayer support.
Barclays has been designated a G-SIFI by the FSB.
States District Court for the District of Columbia a criminal information G-SIFIs will be subject to: against Barclays, which alleged violations of US sanctions laws.
The The FSBs international standard for national resolution regimes, Key United States and Barclays simultaneously entered into a Deferred Attributes of Effective Resolution Regimes for Financial Institutions.
Prosecution Agreement DPA, pursuant to which the United States Among other things, this seeks to give resolution authorities powers agreed to defer prosecution for a period of two years, provided that to intervene in and resolve a financial institution that is no longer Barclays complied with various undertakings, including undertakings viable, including through the transfers of business and creditor relating to cooperation and remediation.
The DPA provided that if financed recapitalisation bail-in within resolution that allocates Barclays complied with those undertakings, the United States would losses to shareholders and unsecured and uninsured creditors in move to dismiss the information.
On August 31, 2012, the United their order of seniority, at a regulator-determined point of nonStates moved the Court to dismiss the information with prejudice on viability that may precede insolvency.
The concept of bail-in may the ground that Barclays had fully cooperated with the United States, affect the rights of senior unsecured creditors subject to any bail-in in complied with all of its obligations under the DPA, and not otherwise the event of a resolution of a failing bank: violated the DPA.
On November 30, 2012, the Court granted the motion to dismiss.
Requirements for resolvability assessments and for recovery and resolution planning: Barclays US securities broker dealer, investment advisory and Requirements for banks determined to be globally systemically Investment banking operations are subject to ongoing supervision and important to have additional loss absorption capacity above that regulation by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority required by Basel 3 standards see below.
The surcharges rise in FINRA and other government agencies and self-regulatory increments from 1% to 2.5% of risk weighted assets with an empty organisations SROs as part of a comprehensive scheme of regulation bucket of 3.5% to discourage institutions from developing their of all aspects of the securities and commodities business under the US business in a way that heightens their systemic nature.
This federal and state securities laws.
Similarly, Barclays US commodity additional buffer must be met with common equity: futures and options-related operations are subject to ongoing supervision and regulation by the CTFC, the National Futures More intensive supervision, including through stronger supervisory Association and other SROs.
mandates, resources and powers, and higher supervisory expectations for risk management functions, data aggregation The credit card-related activities of the Group in the US are subject to capabilities, risk governance and internal controls: and the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of G-SIFIs are subject to enhanced supervision and a comprehensive 2009 Credit CARD Act which was enacted by Congress in May 2009 crisis management framework within supervisory colleges.
to prohibit certain credit card pricing and marketing practices for consumer credit card accounts.
Among the numerous provisions are In its November 2012 list of G-SIFIs, the FSB placed Barclays in a bucket those that prohibit increasing rates on existing balances and over limit that would require it to meet a 2% surcharge.
The additional loss fees in most instances, restrict increasing fees and rates prospectively, absorbency requirements will apply to those banks identified in restrict what penalty fees can be assessed, regulate how payments are November 2014 as globally systemically important and will be phased to be allocated to different balances and how the billing process is to in starting in January 2016, with full implementation by January 2019. work, and revises all communications to cardholders.
G-SIFIs must also meet the higher supervisory expectations for data aggregation capabilities by January 2016.
In October 2012, the FSB and Regulatory developments BCBS finalised a principles based framework for domestic systemically The regulatory change generated by the financial crisis is having and important banks D-SIBs.
National authorities will begin to apply will continue to have a substantial impact on all financial institutions, requirements to banks identified as D-SIBs from January 2016 in line including the Group.
The full impact of this change remains unclear, with the phase in arrangements for G-SIFIs.
Regulatory change is being pursued at a number of levels, globally notably through the G20, Financial Stability Board The FSB continues to pursue a number of work streams that will FSB and Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS, regionally affect the Group, its counterparties and the markets in which it through the European Union and nationally, especially in the UK and operates.
These include policy work on shadow banking and on US.
Increased prudential requirements and changes to the definitions enhanced disclosures.
of capital and liquid assets may affect the Groups planned activities and could increase costs and contribute to adverse impacts on the Groups earnings.
Similarly, increased requirements in relation to capital markets activities and to market conduct requirements may affect the Groups planned activities and could increase costs and thereby contribute to adverse impacts on the Groups earnings.
192 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Basel 3 will be implemented in the EU by amendment to the Capital The BCBS issued the final guidelines on Basel 3 capital and liquidity standards in December 2010, with revisions to counterparty credit risk Requirements Directive CRD IV.
Formal proposals to amend CRD IV were adopted by the European Commission in July 2011.
These take the in July and November 2011.
It has continued to refine elements of this package, notably in relation to regulatory liquidity where revisions were form of a regulation and a directive which are currently going through the EU legislative process.
It had been expected that CRD IV would agreed in January 2013 to the definitions of high quality liquid assets and net cash outflows for the purpose of calculating the Liquidity enter into force on 1 January 2013.
However, delays in the legislative process mean that this date has been missed and no further Coverage Ratio, as well as establishing a timetable for phasing-in the standard from January 2016.
The requirements of Basel 3 as a whole implementation date has been specified.
Much of the detailed implementation is expected to be done through binding technical are subject to a number of transitional provisions that run to the end of 2018.
An assessment of the likely impact of the Basel 3 capital, leverage standards to be developed by the European Banking Authority, that are intended to ensure a harmonised application of rules through the EU and liquidity requirements and the Group response can be found in the Finance Directors review, and in the analysis of funding risk in relation but which have yet to be developed.
While there may be some differences between CRD IV and Basel 3, the current expectation is that to capital and to liquidity pages 166-170 and page 174 respectively.
The Group is, however, primarily subject to the EUs implementation the overall impact will be broadly similar.
of the Basel 3 standard through the Capital Requirements Directive see below.
A significant addition to the EU legislative framework for financial institutions is the proposal for a Directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms.
The BCBS also maintains a number of active work streams that will affect the Group.
These include a fundamental review of the trading This proposal is intended to implement many of the requirements of the FSBs Key Attributes of Effective Resolution Regimes for Financial book where a consultation on enhanced capital standards was issued in May 2012.
Consultations on enhanced standards were also held in Institutions.
The proposal would give resolution authorities extensive powers to bail-in liabilities i. e. write down liabilities or convert them relation to margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives, capital requirements for exposures to central counterparties, the to equity and firms would need a minimum percentage of liabilities in a form that allows them to be subject to bail-in.
The proposal also management of risks associated with the settlement of foreign exchange transactions and on the securitisation framework.
The results requires the development of recovery and resolution plans at group and firm-level.
The proposal sets out a harmonised set of resolution tools of this work are expected in 2013.
The BCBS is also understood to be examining a regime for large exposures.
These developments may across the EU, including the power to impose a temporary stay on the rights of creditors to terminate, accelerate or close out contracts.
There further increase the capital required by the Group to transact affected business and or affect the ability of the Group to undertake are also significant funding implications for financial institutions: the proposal envisages the establishment of pre-funded resolution funds certain transactions.
of 1% of covered deposits to be built up over 10 years, although the proposal also envisages that national deposit guarantee schemes may European Union be able to fulfil this function.
The proposal is currently going through The EU continues to develop its regulatory structure in response to the legislative process and the financial impact on the Group is not the financial and Eurozone crises.
At the December 2012 meeting of yet clear.
EU Finance Ministers, following the Euro Area Summit of 29 June, it was agreed to establish a single supervisory mechanism within the An unrelated proposal to amend the Directive on Deposit Guarantee Eurozone.
The European Central Bank ECB will have responsibility for the supervision of the most significant Eurozone credit institutions, Schemes is also being considered, and the linkage that has emerged with the Recovery and Resolution Directive remains to be clarified.
The financial holding companies or mixed financial holding companies.
The ECB may extend its supervision to institutions of significant relevance proposal on Deposit Guarantee schemes also envisages that national schemes should be pre-funded, with a fund to be raised over a number that have established subsidiaries in more than one participating member state and with significant cross-border assets or liabilities.
This would be a significant change for UK banks where levies are currently raised as needed after failure.
The proposals remain under It is expected that the single supervisory mechanism will become operational in 2014. debate and the financial impact on the Group is not yet clear.
In October 2012, a group of experts set up by the European The European Banking Authority which came into being on 1 January 2011, along with the other European Supervisory Authorities, remains Commission to consider possible reform of the structure of the EU banking sector presented its report.
Among other things, the group charged with the development of a single rulebook for the EU as a whole and with enhancing co-operation between national supervisory recommended the mandatory separation of proprietary trading and other high-risk trading activities from other banking activities.
The European Securities Markets Authority has a similar role in relation to the capital markets and to banks and other firms European Commission has consulted on the proposals put forward by this group, but has yet to determine whether it will take these forward doing investment and capital markets business.
The progressive reduction of national discretion on the part of national regulatory and, if so, how.
It is expected that the European Commission will clarify its intentions later this year.
authorities within the EU may lead to the elimination of prudential arrangements that have been agreed with those authorities.
This may serve to increase or decrease the amount of capital and other resources that Barclays is required to hold.
The overall effect is not clear and may only become evident over a number of years.
The European Banking Authority and the European Securities Markets Authority each have the power to mediate between and override national authorities under certain circumstances.
Responsibility for day-to-day supervision remains with national authorities and for banks, like the Group, that are incorporated in countries that will not participate in the single supervisory mechanism, is expected to remain so.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 193 Risk review Supervision and regulation continued The European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR introduces new While the new regulatory structure takes effect on 1 April 2013, the UK requirements to improve transparency and reduce the risks associated has sought to shadow the new regime to the extent possible without with the derivatives market.
When it enters fully into force, EMIR will the support of the necessary legislation.
The Bank of England has require entities that enter into any form of derivative contract, including operated an Interim FPC and the FSA, has since 1 April 2012 been interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, credit and commodity operating in two distinct and largely autonomous business units derivatives, to: report every derivative contract that they enter to a covering prudential and conduct matters respectively.
The FPC has trade repository: implement new risk management standards, recommended that the FSA should seek to ensure that UK banks hold including operational processes and margining, for all bilateral greater levels of capital as a means of balancing financial stability with over-the-counter derivatives trades that are not cleared by a central the desirability of lending to the real economy.
Both business units of counterparty: and clear, through a central counterparty, over-thethe FSA have continued to develop and apply a more intrusive and counter derivatives that are subject to a mandatory clearing obligation.
assertive approach to supervision and its policy of credible deterrence EMIR has potential operational and financial impacts on the Group, in relation to enforcement that has continued to see significant growth including collateral requirements.
However, not all the implementing in the size of regulatory fines.
In anticipation of international regulation is available and it is not possible at this stage to determine agreement, the FSA has established and implemented capital and the full impact.
liquidity requirements that are substantially increased from pre-crisis levels, and has, together with the Bank of England, proceeded to Proposals to amend the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive establish Recovery and Resolution Planning requirements.
In keeping with the requirements of the FSB, the Group submitted its Recovery continue to be debated.
This will affect many of the investment markets in which the Group operates and the instruments in which it and Resolution Plan by 30 June 2012.
The Retail Distribution Review entered into force on 1 January 2013 and the Mortgage Market Review trades, and how it transacts with market counterparties and other customers.
These proposals are currently going through the legislative will apply from 26 April 2014.
These will affect the economics of investment advice and home finance provision respectively.
The FSA, process and the overall impact on the Group is not yet clear.
following consultation, has also begun to take a more interventionist approach to the design of financial products and to the governance United Kingdom processes around product design.
This approach will be carried Following the passage of the Financial Services Act 2012 which through into the FCA from 1 April 2013. amended the structure of regulation and supervision in the UK as described above, the Government is proposing legislation to take forward the proposals of the Independent Commission on Banking United States The DFA became law in July 2010.
The full scale of the DFAs impact on ICB.
the Group remains unclear because the rules required to implement many of the provisions of DFA continue to be subject to rulemaking On 4 February 2013, the UK Government introduced the Financial and will take effect over several years.
In addition, market practices and Services Banking Reform Bill to the House of Commons.
The Bill structures may change in response to the requirements of the DFA in would give the UK authorities the powers to implement the key ways that are difficult to predict but that could impact Barclays recommendations of the ICB by requiring, amongst other things: i the business.
Nonetheless, certain provisions of the DFA are particularly separation of the UK and EEA retail banking activities of a UK bank in a likely to have an effect on the Group, including: legally distinct, operationally separate and economically independent entity within the same group ring fencing and ii the increase of the Systemic risk: The DFA created the Financial Stability Oversight loss-absorbing capacity of ring-fenced banks and UK headquartered Council FSOC and empowered it to make recommendations to the global systemically important banks to levels higher than the Basel 3 FRB to apply heightened supervisory requirements and prudential guidelines.
The Bill would also give depositors protected under the standards applicable to systematically important entities and Financial Services Compensation Scheme preference if a bank enters activities and to work with all primary financial regulatory agencies to insolvency.
At the same time, the Government announced that it will be establish regulations, as necessary, to address financial stability bringing forward amendments to the Bill to establish a reserve power concerns.
In December 2012, the FRB issued proposed rules that, if allowing the regulator, with approval from the Government, to enforce adopted, would implement the enhanced prudential standards and full separation under certain circumstances.
The Bill consists in large early remediation requirements in the DFA with respect to foreign part of enabling provisions, with much of the detail expected to be banking organisations, such as Barclays, and other foreign financial contained in secondary legislation.
The Government is expected to companies designated by the FSOC as systemically important.
publish the draft secondary legislation later this year.
The Government Previously, the FRB had issued proposed rules to implement such intends that primary and secondary legislation will be in place by the standards and requirements with respect to US bank holding end of this Parliament May 2015 and that UK banks will be required to companies with over $50bn in consolidated assets and other be compliant by 1 January 2019.
US financial companies designated by the FSOC as systemically important.
The proposed rules for foreign banking organisations are The Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards was formed in broadly consistent with the approach taken in the FRBs proposed July 2012.
The Commission is appointed by both Houses of Parliament rules applicable to such US companies.
to consider and report on: The specific requirements applicable to foreign banking organisations professional standards and culture of the UK banking sector, taking under the proposed rules depend on the level of assets of the foreign account of regulatory and competition investigations into the LIBOR banking organisation both inside and outside the United States and rate-setting process: and could significantly increase the regulatory costs to such organisations of operating in the United States, particularly in relation lessons to be learned about corporate governance, transparency and to non-bank operations.
Based on its total US and non-US assets, conflicts of interest, and their implications for regulation and for Barclays would be subject to the most stringent requirements of the Government policy and to make recommendations for legislative and proposed rules: Barclays would be required to create a US other action.
intermediate holding company IHC structure to hold its US banking and non-banking subsidiaries, and the IHC would be subject to The recommendations of the Commission are expected in March 2013 supervision and regulation by the FRB.
While the operations and and are likely to influence UK Government policy and legislative assets of Barclays Bank PLCs US branches would not be required to proposals, possibly through amendment to the Banking Reform Bill and be held in the IHC, the branches would be subject to separate its accompanying secondary legislation which will be under debate requirements.
194 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information The IHC would be subject to a number of separate supervisory, Resolution plans: The DFA requires bank holding companies with prudential and early-remediation requirements, including i capital total consolidated assets of $50bn or more to submit to the FRB and requirements and leverage limits: ii mandatory stress testing of the FDIC, and regularly update, a plan for rapid and orderly capital levels by the FRB and submission of a capital plan to the FRB: resolution to be used if the company experiences material financial iii limitations on capital distributions by the IHC to its parent distress or failure.
Non-US banking organisations that are treated as company, unless such distributions are part of such a capital plan bank holding companies under US law, such as Barclays, are required that has been submitted to and approved by the FRB: iv substantive to submit such plans with respect to their US operations if they have liquidity requirements, including requirements to conduct monthly more than $50bn in US assets.
As Barclays US assets exceed $250bn, internal liquidity stress tests for the IHC and for Barclays Bank PLCs it submitted a resolution plan as required by 1 July 2012: US branch network, separately, and to maintain a 30-day buffer of Regulation of derivatives markets: Among the changes mandated by highly liquid assets: v liquidity risk management requirements, the DFA are that many types of derivatives now traded in the including compliance with liquidity risk management standards over-the-counter markets be traded on an exchange or swap established by the FRB and maintenance of an independent review execution facility and centrally cleared through a regulated clearing function to review and evaluate regularly the adequacy and house.
In addition, many participants in these markets will be effectiveness of the liquidity risk management practices of Barclays required to register with the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap combined US operations: vi overall risk management requirements, participants and or with the US SEC as securities swap dealers or including creation of a US risk committee or use of Barclays major securities swap dealers and be subject to CFTC and SEC enterprise-wide risk committee for this function, provided it meets regulation and oversight.
Barclays Bank PLC has registered as a swap certain requirements and the hiring of a US chief risk officer, and vii dealer.
Entities required to register will also be subject to business stringent concentration and credit exposure limits.
conduct, capital, margin, recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
The proposals envisage that the above requirements would take The DFA also requires most standardised derivatives to be traded on effect on 1 July 2015.
If adopted in their current form, the proposed a regulated platform and cleared through a regulated clearing house.
rules have the potential to increase the absolute and regulatory costs In addition, the CFTC, pursuant to the DFA, has adopted rules on of Barclays US operations significantly.
The proposals are subject to a position limits on derivatives on physical commodities.
These rules public comment period, and the FRB has posed a number of have been overturned by a US District Court and the case is now on questions regarding how to implement the proposed rules.
However, it is expected that these rules will be adopted in result of this process, the FRB may modify its proposals, which could some form in the future.
It is also possible that other additional result in changes to the requirements and the ultimate effect of the regulations many of which still are not final, and the related proposed rules.
It, therefore, is not possible to determine with expenses and requirements, will increase the cost of and restrict certainty what effect the proposed rules or the final rules adopted by participation in the derivative markets, thereby increasing the costs of the FRB may have on Barclays or its US operations: engaging in hedging or other transactions and reducing liquidity and the use of the derivative markets.
Barclays Bank PLC and its Other enhanced prudential requirements: In addition to the subsidiaries and affiliates may be exposed to these effects whether or requirements that would be implemented under the above proposals, not they are required to register in the capacities described.
The new and separate and apart from Basel 3, the DFA also imposes higher regulation of the derivative markets could adversely affect the capital, liquidity and leverage requirements on US banks and bank business of Barclays Bank PLC and its affiliates in these markets and holding companies generally.
could make it more difficult and expensive to conduct hedging and trading activities.
The DFA also contains a derivatives push-out Restrictions on proprietary trading and fund-related activities: The so-called Volcker Rule, will, once effective, significantly restrict the requirement that, as early as July 2013, could prevent the Group from conducting certain swaps-related activities in the US branches of ability of US bank holding companies and their affiliates, and the US branches of foreign banks, to conduct proprietary trading in Barclays Bank PLC: securities and derivatives as well as certain activities related to hedge Risk retention requirements for securitisations: The US federal funds and private equity funds.
In October 2011, US regulators banking agencies are required by the DFA to develop rules whereby, proposed rules to implement the Volcker Rule.
Those rules have not subject to certain exceptions, any sponsor of an asset-backed yet been finalised.
The proposed rules are highly complex and many security ABS transaction must retain, generally, not less than five aspects remain unclear, including the exemption from the proprietary percent of the credit risk of any asset that the sponsor, through the trading and fund-related activity prohibitions for activities conducted issuance of ABS, transfers, sells or conveys to a third party.
This may by non-US organisations solely outside the United States.
The impact the participation by the Groups US operations in such agencies appeared to construe this exemption very narrowly in the transactions: and proposed rules.
Analysis continues of the proposals, but it is clear that compliance with them would entail significant effort by the The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection CFPB : The CFPB is Group.
Although the Volcker Rule is likely to impose significant empowered to regulate the credit card industry, including the terms additional compliance and operational costs on the Group, the full of credit card agreements with consumers, disclosures, and fees.
impact will not be known with certainty until the rules have been Actions by the CFPB in this area are likely to impact the Groups US finalised.
Whilst the Group has identified that its private equity fund, credit card business.
The CFPB became operational in July 2011, and hedge fund and trading operations may be affected by the Volcker has developed a model credit card disclosure form and is accepting Rule, until the final regulations are adopted, the impact on the consumer credit card complaints.
More broadly, the CFPB has the Groups ability to engage in these activities continues to remain authority to examine and take enforcement action against any US uncertain.
As such, it cannot currently be determined whether the bank with over $10bn in total assets, such as Barclays Bank Delaware, restrictions will have a material effect on the Group.
While the with respect to its compliance with Federal laws regulating the statutory Volcker Rule provisions officially took effect in July 2012, provision of consumer financial services and with respect to unfair, Barclays has until the end of the conformance period, currently set deceptive or abusive acts and practices.
Since becoming operational, for July 2014 subject to possible extensions, in order to conform its the CFPB has initiated several high-profile public actions against activities to the requirements of the rule: financial companies, including major credit card issuers.
Settlements of those actions have included monetary penalties, customer remediation requirements and commitments to modify business practices.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 195 Tough questions, honest answers As a shareholder, returns and performance have been disappointing.
In times of economic uncertainty, performance is difficult for all.
But we believe our fundamentals are strong and we are well positioned to achieve long-term value.
We are aiming to improve the quality and predictability of earnings allowing us to deliver sustainable returns in excess of our cost of equity.
196 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Financial review A review of the performance of Barclays, including the key performance indicators, and our businesses contribution to the overall performance of the Group.
198 Key performance indicators 202 Consolidated summary income statement 203 Income statement commentary 204 Consolidated summary balance sheet 205 Balance sheet commentary 207 Analysis of results by business barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 197
