The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Risk management Liquidity risk management To set early warning indicators to identify immediately the Liquidity risk management overview audited emergence of increased liquidity risk or vulnerabilities including Liquidity risk is the failure to meet obligations leading to an inability to events that would impair access to liquidity resources: support normal business activity and to meet liquidity regulatory To project fully over an appropriate set of time horizons cash flows requirements.
Such outflows would deplete available cash resources for arising from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items: and client lending, trading activities and investments.
These outflows could be principally through customer withdrawals, wholesale counterparties To maintain a Contingency Funding Plan that is comprehensive and removing financing, collateral posting requirements or loan drawproportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the business downs.
and that is regularly tested to ensure that it is operationally robust.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a Governance and organisation range of Group-specific and market-wide events which can result in: Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance control process that covers all of the Groups liquidity risk management activities.
The An inability to support normal business activity: and Barclays Treasurer is responsible for designing the Group Liquidity Risk A failure to meet liquidity regulatory requirements.
Management framework the Liquidity Framework which is sanctioned by the Board Risk Committee BRC.
The Liquidity During periods of market dislocation, the Groups ability to manage Framework incorporates liquidity policies, systems and controls that liquidity requirements may be impacted by a reduction in the the Group has implemented to manage liquidity risk within tolerances availability of wholesale term funding as well as an increase in the cost approved by the Board and regulatory agencies.
The Board sets the of raising wholesale funds.
Asset sales, balance sheet reductions and Groups Liquidity Risk Appetite LRA, being the level of risk the Group the increasing costs of raising funding will affect the earnings of the chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives and in meeting its Group.
The Treasury Committee is responsible for the management and governance of the mandate defined by the Board and In illiquid markets, the Group may decide to hold assets rather than includes the following sub-committees: securitising, syndicating or disposing of them.
This could affect the The Group Funding and Liquidity Management Committee is Groups ability to originate new loans or support other customer responsible for the review, challenge and approval of the Liquidity transactions as both capital and liquidity are consumed by existing or Framework.
The Liquidity Framework is reviewed regularly at legacy assets.
Treasury Committee and BRC: In addition, the introduction of capital controls or new currencies by The Group Asset and Liability Management Committee oversees the countries to mitigate current stresses could have a consequential effect management and governance of asset and liability management on performance of the balance sheets of certain Group companies including behavioural mismatch, structural risk and transfer pricing: based on the asset quality, types of collateral and mix of liabilities.
and The Investment Advisory Group supervises the investment of a The efficient management of liquidity is essential to the Group in portion of the Group liquidity pool in longer-dated liquid assets.
The retaining the confidence of the financial markets and ensuring that the Investment Advisory Group approves a detailed allocation framework business is sustainable.
Liquidity risk is managed through the Liquidity across assets and tenors, and reviews the performance and risks Risk Framework, which is designed to meet the following objectives: associated with these holdings.
The holdings are subject to limits set To maintain liquidity resources that are sufficient in amount and by the BRC and by the independent Group market and credit risk quality and a funding profile that is appropriate to meet the liquidity functions.
risk framework as expressed by the Board: Liquidity is recognised as a key risk and the Barclays Treasurer is the To maintain market confidence in the Groups name: Group Key Risk owner, supported by Key Risk Owners at regional and To set limits to control liquidity risk within and across lines of country levels.
Execution of the Groups liquidity risk management business and legal entities: strategy is carried out at country level, with the country Key Risk Owners providing reports to Barclays Treasury to evidence To accurately price liquidity costs, benefits and risks and incorporate conformance with the agreed risk profile.
Further oversight is those into product pricing and performance measurement: provided by country, regional and business level committees.
Governance and organisation Barclays Treasury Committee Group Asset and Liability Group Funding and Liquidity Investment Advisory Group Management Committee Management Committee barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 337 Risk management Liquidity risk management continued Ongoing business management Ongoing business Early signs Mild stressSevere stress Recovery Resolution management Liquidity Limits Monitoring and review Activate Contingency Asset and Liability Ensure an orderly Pricing and Incentives Low cost actions Funding Plan actions to generate resolution can be carried Early Warning Indicators and balance sheet Balance sheet reductions additional liquidity out if necessary, without Risk Appetite and optimisation and business limitations adverse systemic risk or Planning exposing the public funds to loss Liquidity risk framework Ongoing business management Barclays has a comprehensive Liquidity Framework for managing the Liquidity Limits Groups liquidity risk.
The Liquidity Framework is designed to deliver Barclays manages limits on a variety of on and off-balance sheet the appropriate term and structure of funding consistent with the exposures, a sample of which are shown in the table below.
These Liquidity Risk Appetite set by the Board.
limits serve to control the overall extent and composition of liquidity risk taken by managing exposure to particular sources of liabilities, asset liability mismatches and counterparty concentrations.
Barclays The Liquidity Framework incorporates a range of ongoing business management tools to monitor, limit and stress test the Groups balance also limits activities permitted at a country level.
Businesses are only allowed to have funding exposure to wholesale markets where they can sheet and contingent liabilities.
Limit setting and transfer pricing are tools that are designed to control the level of liquidity risk taken and demonstrate that their market is sufficiently deep and liquid and then only relative to the size and complexity of their business.
drive the appropriate mix of funds, which together reduce the likelihood that a liquidity stress event could lead to an inability to meet the Groups obligations as they fall due.
The stress tests assess Internal Pricing and Incentives potential contractual and contingent stress outflows under a range of Barclays actively manages the composition and duration of the balance scenarios, which are then used to determine the size of the liquidity sheet and of contingent liabilities through the transfer of liquidity pool that is immediately available to meet anticipated outflows if a premium directly to business units.
Liquidity premiums are charged stress occurred.
and credited to businesses according to the behavioural life of assets and liabilities and contingent risk.
These transfer pricing mechanisms In addition the Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which are designed to ensure that liquidity risk is reflected in product pricing and performance measurement, thereby ensuring that the Liquidity details how liquidity stress events of varying severity would be managed.
Since the precise nature of any stress event can not be Framework is integrated into business level decision making to drive the appropriate mix of sources and uses of funds.
known in advance, the plans are designed to be flexible to the nature and severity of the stress event and provide a menu of options that could be used as appropriate at the time.
Barclays also maintains Recovery Plans which consider actions to facilitate recovery from severe stress or an orderly resolution.
The overall framework therefore provides the necessary tools to manage the continuum of liquidity risk, as summarised in the chart above.
Liquidity Limits Unsecured Limits By currency FX Limits Conduit Facilities LimitsInvestment By maturity Concentration Limits By liability type Secured Limits By currency Counterparty Off-Balance Sheet Downgrade Exposure By maturity Concentration Limits Commitment Limits Limits By liability type By counterparty 338 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 barclays.
com annualreport The strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Early Warning Indicators Contingency Funding Plan and Recovery Resolution Plan Barclays monitors a range of market indicators for early signs of Barclays maintains a Contingency Funding Plan CFP, which is liquidity risk either in the market or specific to Barclays, a sample of designed to provide a framework where a liquidity stress could be which are shown in the table below.
Additionally country and business effectively managed.
The CFP is proportionate to the nature, scale and level Asset and Liability Committees monitor early warning indicators complexity of the business and is tested to ensure that it is appropriate to their businesses.
These are designed to immediately operationally robust.
The CFP details the circumstances in which the identify the emergence of increased liquidity risk to maximise the time plan could be invoked, including as a result of adverse movements in available to execute appropriate mitigating actions.
A deterioration in Early Warning Indicators.
As part of the plan the Barclays Treasurer has Early Warning Indicators can lead to invocation of the Groups established a Liquidity Management Committee LMC.
On invocation Contingency Funding Plan, which provides a framework for how the of the CFP, the LMC would meet to identify the likely impact of the liquidity stress would be managed.
event on the Group and determine the response, which would be proportionate to the nature and severity of the stress.
Risk appetite and planning Regulatory requirements are complied with at the Group and entity The CFP provides a communication plan and includes management level, with the Liquidity Risk Appetite LRA providing a consistent actions to respond to liquidity stresses of varying severity.
This could Group wide perspective that supplements these requirements.
Under include monetising the liquidity pool, slowing the extension of credit, the Liquidity Framework, the Group has established the LRA, which is increasing the tenor of funding and securitising or selling assets.
the level of liquidity risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business objectives and in meeting its regulatory obligations.
It is The Group continues to work with the authorities on recovery and measured with reference to the liquidity pool compared to anticipated resolution planning RRP.
The Group made its first formal RRP stressed net contractual and contingent outflows for each of three submissions to the UK and US regulators in mid-2012 and has since stress scenarios.
continued to work with the authorities to identify and address any impediments to resolvability.
The stress outflows are used to determine the size of the Group Liquidity Pool, which represents those resources immediately available to meet outflows in a stress.
In addition to the liquidity pool, the Liquidity Framework provides for other management actions, including generating liquidity from other liquid assets on the Groups balance sheet in order to meet additional stress outflows, or to preserve or restore the Liquidity Pool in the event of a liquidity stress.
Examples of Early Warning Indicators Change in composition of deposits Level of debt buybacks Rising funding costs Widening CDS spreads Change in maturity profile Repo haircut widening barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2012 I 339
