Business review Risk management It is by embedding an eective risk management culture throughout the group, underpinned by a robust risk management framework, that we can anticipate and plan for our future challenges.
Andrew Pryde Chief risk officer Risk management philosophy Beazleys risk management philosophy is to balance the risks the business takes on with the associated cost of controlling these risks, whilst also operating within the risk appetite agreed by the board.
In addition, our risk management processes are designed to periodically monitor our risk prole against risk appetite and to exploit opportunities as they arise.
Risk management strategy The board has delegated the oversight of the risk management department to the executive committee, which in turn has delegated immediate oversight to the risk and regulatory committee.
Clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities are in place for the management of risks and controls, and all employees are aware of the role they play in all aspects of the risk management process, from identifying sources of risk to their part in the control environment.
The impact of each risk is recorded in the risk register on a 1:10 likelihood of that risk manifesting in the next 12 months.
A risk owner has been assigned responsibility for each risk, and it is the responsibility of that individual to periodically assess the impact of the risk and to ensure appropriate risk mitigation procedures are in place.
External factors facing the business and the internal controls in place are continually reassessed and changes are made when necessary.
On an annual basis, the board agrees the risk appetite for each risk and this is documented in the risk framework document.
The value of the residual financial impact is managed in a number of ways, including: mitigating the impact of the risk through the application of controls: transferring or sharing risk through outsourcing and purchasing insurance and reinsurance: and tolerating risk in line with the risk appetite.
In addition, we have adopted the following risk management principles: risk management is a part of the wider governance environment: techniques employed are t for purpose and proportionate to the business: it is a core capability for all employees: risk management is embedded in day to day activities: there is a culture of risk awareness, in which risks are identied, assessed and managed: risk management processes are robust and supported by veriable management information: and risk management information and reporting is timely, clear, accurate and appropriately escalated.
Risk management framework Beazley has adopted the three lines of defence framework: namely business risk management, risk management function and internal audit function.
Within business risk management, there are three dened roles: risk owner, control owner and control reporter.
Each risk event is owned by the risk owner who is a senior member of staff.
Risk owners, supported by the risk management team, formally perform a risk assessment twice a year, including an assessment of emerging risk.
Business Risk Management Risk Management Internal Audit Risk Ownership Risk Oversight Risk Assurance Identifies risk Are risks being identified?
Independently test control design Assesses risk Are controls operating effectively?
Independently test control operation Mitigates risk Are controls being signed off?
Report to committees and board Monitors risk Report to committees and board Record status Remediates when required Beazley Annual report 2012 51 Business review Risk management continued The risk management framework comprises a number of risk management components, which when added together describe how we manage risk on a day to day basis.
The framework includes a risk register that captures the risk universe 57 risk events grouped into eight risk categories: insurance, market, credit, liquidity, operational, regulatory and legal, group and strategic, the risk appetite set by the Beazley plc board, and the control environment that is operated by the business to remain within the risk appetite.
The following diagram illustrates the components of the risk management framework.
Risk appetite Risk assessment Stress and scenario framework Risk profiles Strategic and emerging risk annual biannual annual ad hoc annual Control assessment Risk register monthly Key risk indicators Control performance Internal model quarterly aggregation monthly Risk incidents Consolidated assurance Committees reporting report 1st line: Underwriting, Investment, BSS, Executive committees 2nd line: Risk and regulatory, Risk committees 3rd line: Audit committees Boards A suite of risk management reports are provided to the boards and committees to assist the senior and executive management to discharge its decision making responsibilities.
The internal audit function uses the risk management framework to develop its annual risk-based audit plan.
The plan is based on, among other factors, the inherent and residual risk scores as captured in the risk register.
Finally, a feedback loop operates with recommendations from the internal audit reviews being assessed by the risk management function for inclusion in the risk register as appropriate.
2012 in review Beazley has now been using the revised risk management framework for three years and, supported by a comprehensive training programme, the framework has become part of usual business activity.
The risk management function has also remained stable and at full capacity during 2012 and has supported the operation of the framework through facilitation, challenge and the provision of timely risk information.
It is by embedding an effective risk management culture throughout the group, underpinned by a robust risk management framework, that we can anticipate and plan for our future challenges.
A robust risk assessment is an important cornerstone of the framework.
The risks and opportunities in the insurance environment have not changed signicantly in 2012, and for this reason neither has our risk management strategy of maintaining a diversied portfolio of insurance risks, executing on our cycle management expertise, employing a conservative investment strategy and operating a robust underwriting and claims control environment.
Even though the number and financial impact of catastrophe losses in the year has not reached the level experienced in 2011, the top three risks to the group have remained relatively static, and are common to many of our peers.
These are underwriting and reserving risks specically, systematically mispricing across a number of years, catastrophe risk and market risk.
Beazley 52 Annual report 2012 Business review Whilst the near term risks have not changed, the board debated potential emerging risks as part of its strategy day in May and the response to these risks has been monitored within the quarterly Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA report.
This work was supported by two formal risk assessment exercises led by risk owners in 2012 to ensure that the risk management framework and control environment keeps pace with the changing environment within which Beazley operates.
Risk proles have been a welcome addition at committees and these risk reports have included topics such as the risks associated with the corporate transactions which have been considered, how the business manages certain perils and the risks inherent in specic products.
Throughout 2012, a eurozone dashboard has been a standing agenda item to help the business navigate the risks associated with the ongoing developments in Europe.
Although the implementation date for Solvency II has been delayed, in 2012 Beazley has operated its risk management framework and its internal model in line with the Solvency II requirements.
In particular, we have used the Solvency II internal model to estimate the capital required to deliver our 2013 business plan.
The capital modelling team has also been providing the full suite of capital reports throughout 2012 and the ne tuning of the internal model has been made in line with the Solvency II model change policy and governance procedures.
The ORSA has also emerged as a valuable addition to the groups reports, with ten ORSAs having been produced to date: eight regular quarterly ORSAs and two transactional ORSAs.
In summary, the ORSA combines risk assessment information with risk quantication to inform decisions over a one year and five year timeframe.
Finally, the governance of the risk management framework has continued to evolve in 2012 with the introduction of board risk committees for Beazley Furlonge Limited, Beazley Re Limited and Beazley plc.
The membership of these committees is restricted to non-executive directors who provide independent oversight and challenge of how Beazley is managing and optimising risk.
