32 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Risk management The following section sets out our approach to risk The board has overall responsibility for setting the management and describes the principal risks that we level of risk the company is prepared to accept.
The risk believe could impact on the performance of the business.
framework is overseen by the Finance Director and Risk Manager, who ensure the maintenance of a risk Effective risk management is a key component of the register, identify and evaluate emerging risks, review businesss operating model and assists in ensuring that the implementation of mitigating actions and report the different parts of the group operate within acceptable to the board.
Principal risks Mitigation Key developments Strategy O Failure to formulate or deliver The board regularly reviews Strategic focus on distinct pools an appropriate strategy to allow the appropriateness of the of capital providing targeted Caledonia to meet its stated companys strategy and monitors total returns.
Improving the portfolio yield to support an increased dividend component of total return.
O Active reduction of small, subscale, illiquid investments.
Market O Caledonia invests primarily in Market risks and sensitivities are Management of the portfolio UK and overseas equities and its reviewed on a weekly basis and through distinct pools of capital principal risks are therefore actions taken to balance targeting complementary unique market related and include appropriately risk and return.
risk return proiles now embedded currency, interest rate and other into operations.
An explanation Detailed value analysis updated of these risks, along with regularly for each investment.
sensitivities, is included in note 21 to these accounts.
O Caledonia maintains a concentrated Our investment model emphasises Participation in investee governance, portfolio covering both listed the value of long term compounding supported by system of monthly and unlisted investments, with through long term businesses reporting of key inancial information 48.3% of total assets at 31 March supported by strong management by unquoted investments.
O 2012 represented by the largest teams.
In a majority of cases, Regular value point monitoring and ten investments.
signiicant investments include board top slicing of larger investments, representation.
This is particularly where considered appropriate to our important in unquoted investments longer term value aims.
and provides direct access to the business value generation.
Investing O Failure to access and convert Pool executives nurture networks Additional experienced resource has the best opportunities.
over long periods of time that, been recruited into the investment together with the established process over the last 18 months to brand of Caledonia equity, provide support a continued and focused a source of quality deal low.
Database evaluation tools are also used where appropriate to identify potential investment opportunities and value points.
A rigorous due diligence and approvals process is followed before transacting.
Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 33 Principal risks Mitigation Key developments Investing continued O Failure to divest at the right time.
Target exit events and prices are The last year has seen the sale of a regularly monitored.
number of non-strategic investments, particularly those of smaller scale, allowing resources to be reallocated in line with strategic focus.
O Failure in the systems controlling Caledonia has appropriate back New software systems were the authorisation, processing and ofice systems which ensure all implemented to improve execution of investment trades.
transactions are approved, executed automation of the investment and recorded in a timely fashion and process and controls.
O within an appropriate structure of Controls assurance programme is segregated duties and authorised being implemented, reporting to the approval levels.
Audit Committee and providing a review of the effective operation of internal controls.
This will be effective from 1 April 2012.
Operational Loss of infrastructure due to ire, A business continuity plan is in lood, terrorism, IT systems failure place and back-up procedures at or loss of key personnel.
an off-site location are undertaken daily.
Appropriate insurance is in place and the close collegiate nature of Caledonia encourages a low staff turnover.
O Caledonia operates in a highly A Compliance Committee refer to Caledonia has maintained close regulated environment and needs page 45 meets weekly to ensure the liaison with HMRC during the to ensure it remains compliant companys continued compliance process of the change in the tax with existing and new tax rules, with legal and regulatory rules for the investment trust as well as the potential burden requirements.
Caledonia is a member industry during the last year and of new regulation.
of the Association of Investment with the AIC relating to proposed Companies AIC, and meets with its EU and other legislation.
fellow self-managed trusts, through the AIC self-managed trusts forum.
The Investment Management and The maturing of facilities is Compliance Committees regularly monitored to ensure a continuous monitor forecast liquidity against source of liquidity is maintained.
The overall portfolio has been Available bank facilities are structured to include a signiicant maintained and their adequacy element of highly liquid investments, reviewed by the board regularly.
most recently including over 100m in the Income & Growth pool.
Valuations are prepared by the The strategic focus on unquoted investment executives, in line with investments of greater substance IPEV Guidelines, considered by and maturity reduces risk and makes the Valuation Committee and benchmark valuation more robust.
O presented to the Audit Committee IPEV Guidelines are followed for approval.
and, where appropriate, market benchmarks are adjusted to relect the reduced liquidity of unlisted investments.
