Close Brothers Group plc 24 Annual Report 2012 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties The group faces a range of risks and uncertainties which could Integrated risk management affect both its financial performance and the achievement of its The groups risk functions are integrated throughout our strategic objectives.
businesses providing independent oversight and challenge to risk decisions to ensure they are in line with the established business Our Approach to Risk model and within our risk appetite.
The groups approach to risk We seek to achieve an appropriate balance between taking risk management is set out in more detail on page 37. and generating sustainable returns for shareholders.
In order to achieve this we focus on: This approach mitigates the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the group which are set out below.
In addition to these Sticking to the established model the board considers the maintenance of the groups reputation We are focused on the resilient and prudent attributes of our paramount and fundamental to its ongoing success.
The business model as set out on pages 8 and 9.
These attributes approach outlined above together with a firm commitment to have enabled the group to have a long track record of delivering demonstrate a high level of integrity in all its activities and treating strong profits and maintaining a stable balance sheet even when customers and business counterparts in a fair and open manner market conditions are stressed.
is designed to protect that reputation.
Overall the group continues to be well positioned despite the uncertain macro Clearly defined risk appetite environment and the principal risks and uncertainties outlined The group continues to have at its core a cautious approach, in below are unchanged from the prior year as the group has particular ensuring that the group is well capitalised, soundly continued to follow its established model.
funded and has adequate access to liquidity.
Risk appetites are reviewed and approved annually by the board and translated into The disclosures below should not be regarded as a individual limits and metrics, such as acceptable loan to value comprehensive list of the risks and uncertainties faced by the ratios, in order that they may be applied to day to day business group but rather a summary of those which the group currently decisions.
faces and believes have the potential to have a significant impact on its financial performance and future prospects.
Key: No change Risk decreased Risk increased Risk uncertainty Risk mitigation and management Change Uncertain economic environment The groups businesses typically trade in Economic conditions, particularly in the specialist areas where they have UK, could impact on the groups developed significant market knowledge The economic environment remains performance in a number of different ways and expertise.
Across the divisions, the volatile with an uncertain outlook for the including: group aims to build long-term relationships demand for our services across the Lower demand for the groups products with its customers adding resilience to divisions.
However this continues to be and services due to lower economic trading performance in difficult economic offset by the strong performance of our activity: conditions.
Increased bad debts due to customers inability to repay loans and lower asset The group carries out regular stress values for security held against these testing to test that the historic resilience of loans: its businesses can be expected to Lower investor risk appetite reducing continue.
trading volumes for the Securities division: and In Banking, loans are short term with Asset write downs as a result of conservative loan to value ratios and are reduced trading expectations due to predominantly secured on accessible lower economic activity.
In Securities, our businesses offer liquidity across a diverse range of products and maintain a low fixed cost base allowing the division to trade profitably even when investor risk appetite is reduced.
In Asset Management, the key focus is to manage, protect and enhance the wealth of private and corporate clients.
Close Brothers Group plc 25 Annual Report 2012 Risk uncertainty Risk mitigation and management Change Credit losses The groups lending businesses have a The group faces credit and counterparty dual approach to mitigate credit risk: risk across its divisions but particularly in Robust processes that facilitate the While underlying economic conditions relation to its banking activities.
The group assessment of the credit quality and have weakened and the outlook for advances loans to a range of corporate, covenant of the underlying borrower: financial markets is uncertain, impairments SME and individual customers.
In addition and in the Banking division have fallen.
Surplus the group places surplus funding with Lending on a predominantly secured funding is more concentrated in UK gilts other financial institutions and has a limited basis with significant emphasis on the and deposits at Bank of England, number of derivative contracts to hedge quality of the underlying security to reducing risk.
interest rate, foreign exchange and equity minimise any loss should the customer exposures in its treasury operations.
These risks are enhanced given the These are supplemented by timely and uncertain economic environment and rigorous collections and arrears potential dislocation in global financial management processes.
The group has limited direct the groups lending is short term and exposure to the Eurozone see note 34 on average loan size is small with the result page 106 but the indirect impact of a that few individual loans have the capacity Eurozone break up on our primarily UK to materially impact the groups earnings.
The Banking division monitors the credit quality of the counterparties with whom it places deposits, enters into derivative contracts or whose debt securities are held, within approved limits.
Interest rate and foreign currency derivatives are solely held to hedge the interest rate and foreign currency exposures.
Similarly, the equity derivatives are only held to hedge the embedded derivatives within our structured deposits funding.
The Securities division exposure is limited as the businesses trade in the cash markets with regulated counterparties on a delivery versus payment basis such that any credit exposure is limited to price movements in the underlying securities.
Counterparty exposure and settlement failure monitoring controls are in place.
Availability of funding The groups funding and liquidity profile Access to funding is fundamental to the are managed closely within clearly defined Banking division in particular to support its risk appetites.
The groups funding is The availability of interbank funding has lending activities.
Inability to source diversified and amounted to 5.9 billion at continued to be limited although the sufficient funding could constrain growth 31 July 2012, equivalent to 142% of the securitisation of our motor finance loan and in extreme circumstances require loan book.
The surplus provides a book has further improved funding reductions to lending levels.
Access to sufficient level of liquidity relative to the diversity.
We have also continued to funding is also fundamental to the group duration of lending and is of high quality demonstrate our ability to access the retail maintaining sufficient levels of liquidity.
with the majority invested in UK gilts or deposit market.
deposited at the Bank of England.
Weekly stress testing is carried out to ensure adequate liquidity is maintained at all times.
Close Brothers Group plc 26 Annual Report 2012 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk uncertainty Risk mitigation and management Change Regulatory change The group monitors regulatory and legal The group operates in a highly regulated developments and engages in dialogue environment and significant changes to with regulatory authorities on a regular The reputation of the banking industry the regulatory and legislative environment basis.
We continue to maintain a remains in the spotlight increasing the risk are currently being introduced.
The conservative model with a strong, well of significant regulatory change.
changes affect, inter alia, capital and capitalised and funded balance sheet and liquidity levels and the way in which the believe we are well placed to react to groups employees are remunerated.
addition intervention to funding markets by legislative and or regulatory bodies has The group has a central tax function which the potential to impact on the groups liaises regularly with the tax authorities and competitive position.
has developed a group tax policy to ensure a consistent and conservative The impact on the groups businesses approach is taken to tax issues across the caused by changes in regulation, group.
legislation or the tax system is potentially material notwithstanding that many of the proposed changes are aimed primarily at larger institutions.
Employees The groups human resources function As outlined on pages 8 and 9, the groups reviews the performance management experienced people are fundamental to framework and the reward and incentive The overall market for financial services the groups performance.
The loss of key schemes regularly to ensure that the personnel is largely benign, although our employees or teams could impact on the group is successful in attracting and specialist teams continue to be potential groups performance.
retaining the calibre of employees targets for competitors.
necessary to meet its objectives.
In addition the group has also further extended its succession planning for its key employees during the year and is committed to continuing to develop its employees.
IT systems and business continuity Each of the businesses continually invests The groups activities are highly reliant on in its IT platforms to ensure they remain their IT infrastructure in their daily upto date and fit for purpose for the While investment into the groups IT operations.
Failure to respond to new markets in which they operate.
infrastructure continues, the group technology, develop existing systems and Additionally, business continuity plans are remains highly reliant on its IT systems.
ensure a robust infrastructure could have in place to enable the businesses to a material effect either competitively or respond in a timely manner to a disaster operationally on the groups earnings and event.
Execution of strategy The group devotes substantial In line with its strategic plans, the group management resources to the has achieved significant growth in its development and execution of its strategic The low average duration of the Banking banking activities and is investing in its plans, monitoring key performance and divisions lending means that many of the infrastructure to support a larger business.
risk indicators and has various policies new loans advanced in the last three years In addition within Asset Management we and practices to mitigate strategic risk, of high loan book growth have already are rolling out our new proposition to including subscribing to sound corporate been repaid demonstrating that growth existing and prospective clients as well as governance practices, which require that has been successfully managed despite continuing to integrate the acquisitions activities, processes and decisions are the economic environment.
made in the last two years.
based on carefully considered principles.
The group has now substantially If these strategic plans which are The group regularly reinforces these completed its investment in its Asset supported by substantial expenditure are policies and practices through transparent Management division and has made not delivered as anticipated, earnings communication, accurate reporting, progress on integrating the acquisitions could grow more slowly or decline.
continuous group culture and values made.
assessment, regulatory compliance review and risk management practices.
This is supported by more formal strategy and budget reviews.
Close Brothers Group plc 27 Annual Report 2012 Risk uncertainty Risk mitigation and management Change Exposure to markets In Securities, the primary activity is to act The groups securities businesses are as a market-maker, providing liquidity in exposed to market movements deriving short dated exchange traded products.
The groups approach is consistent with from trading in equity and fixed income Position limits are set annually for each prior years and the risk is considered securities.
product, sector and individual stock with unchanged despite the volatile and real time monitoring and oversight by challenging financial markets.
Interest income is a substantial proportion senior management.
Movements in interest rates have the potential to affect The groups policy is to match fixed and the groups earnings.
variable interest rate liabilities and assets utilising interest rate swaps where While the majority of the groups activities necessary.
Returns from the groups are located in the UK and transacted in capital and reserves are necessarily sterling, the group is subject to foreign subject to interest rate fluctuations and as exchange exposure.
The group has a matter of policy are not hedged.
A currency assets and liabilities, principally sensitivity analysis on interest rate lending and FRNs as well as borrowings exposures is shown on page 109. and customer deposits, within the Banking division.
In addition the group has The foreign exchange exposures arising a small number of overseas subsidiaries from the Banking divisions assets and and currency denominated investments.
liabilities are managed by matching assets and liabilities by currency and the limited use of foreign currency swaps.
Exposures are monitored daily against centrally authorised limits.
The group does not take speculative proprietary positions in foreign currency.
The group does not hedge its currency exposure to its overseas subsidiaries and currency investments since it is relatively modest.
A sensitivity analysis on foreign currency exposures is shown on page 109.
