Principal risks and uncertainties Effective management of risks is essential to the delivery of the Groups objective of creating superior shareholder returns.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and the review of risk activities has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Under the leadership of the Vice President of Risk, Bodycote has developed the risk management framework to identify, report and manage its business critical risks.
During the year a Risk Committee was established, represented by senior managers from each of the operating divisions.
The role of the Risk Committee is to embed risk management and facilitate the implementation of risk management measures at a divisional level.
A variety of approaches is used to identify and report risks, which are aggregated first at a sub-divisional level and then at Group level.
For each business critical risk, assurance activities have been documented in risk assurance maps and this is used to direct assurance activity.
The Vice President of Risk provides an update to the Audit Committee on the Groups risk activities at every meeting and a comprehensive review of the Groups business critical risks is presented in December.
In addition, the Board examines a specific risk topic at each Board meeting.
The table below highlights the major risks that may affect Bodycotes ability to deliver the strategy, as laid out in page 4.
Details of the Groups financial risks funding, foreign exchange, interest rate and counterparty risks, which are managed by the Groups treasury function, are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
The mitigating activities described below will help to reduce the impact or likelihood of the major risk occurring, although the Board recognises that it will not be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
Furthermore, there could be risks that may be unknown or that may be judged to be insignificant at present, but may later prove to be significant.
For this reason more effort has been directed at measures to recover from a situation where a significant risk does crystallise.
These include a comprehensive review of the Groups business continuity planning measures and the development of crisis management planning.
Risk Description and Impact Mitigation Market and Customer Risks Markets Bodycotes exposure to macroeconomic performance means that it suffers from a high Implement strategic plan with medium term objective level of sales volatility.
A substantial proportion of Bodycotes sales are closely linked to of above-market sales growth, a focus on targeted the economic cycle: Sales in the markets served by the AGI businesses 63% of the total growth-premia business segments and a more Group tend to develop in line with or ahead of the economic cycle, whereas aerospace and balanced geographic spread.
defence sales 23% tend to track behind the economic cycle.
Sales to the energy sectors Maintain flexibility of cost base e. g. by ensuring that a 14% are closely linked to energy prices, which in turn can be affected by general economic proportion of the workforce is employed on temporary activity.
The high proportion of fixed costs in the business means that a drop in sales will contracts.
have a significant impact on profitability.
However, Bodycotes presence in 26 countries Respond quickly to changes in customer demand on a in a wide variety of end-markets acts as a natural hedge to neutralise localised economic local or a Group-wide level.
Nevertheless, the Board is mindful of the potential impact on demand for the Wide geographical and market sector spread of Group Groups services while uncertainty around the Eurozone debt and the US fiscal problems sales.
Loss of key customers Bodycote benefits from many long-term relationships with key customers.
Damage to, or Continue focus on customer service and quality loss of, any of these relationships would be detrimental to Group results and could affect processes to maintain excellent relationships with the viability of one or more of Bodycotes facilities.
However, the Board believes this is major customers.
Use key account management to unlikely as Bodycote strives to provide a high level of customer service and the Groups monitor customer satisfaction with the Groups service network of strategically located facilities ensures that it is the supplier of choice to these levels.
Furthermore there is no significant customer dependency, with the Ensure there is no significant customer dependency.
Groups top ten customers accounting for less than 14% of sales and the balance made up by many thousands of customers.
Corporate and Community Risks Human resources Bodycote is reliant on its ability to attract, develop and retain staff of the right calibre to Continue the development of an HR strategy to support its growth strategy.
Competition for capable resources is high and there is a risk address the long-term development and retention that Bodycote may not be able to attract or retain skilled individuals.
As a market leader of staff.
Bodycote is seen as a source of talent by competitors, while the Group competes with Develop succession plans.
employers from a wide range of sectors to attract staff into the business.
Ensure performance management processes are properly implemented and used effectively.
26 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Risk Description and Impact Mitigation Corporate and Community Risks Safety and health Bodycote is committed to providing a safe work environment for its employees.
The nature Group-wide health and safety policies set by the Group of Bodycotes activities presents safety and health risks which can have a significant Chief Executive.
Furthermore poor safety and health practices could lead to ISO 18000 compliant SHE management systems being disruption of business, financial penalties and loss of reputation.
implemented by Group Head of Safety, Health and Environment with the support of divisional safety and health teams.
Programme in place to focus on reduction of incidents which could have a high impact.
Safety compliance audits at all plants at least once a year.
Oversight of safety and health framework provided by the Group SHE Committee.
Environment Bodycote is committed to providing the highest level of protection to the environment.
Remediation of contaminated sites as required by local Environmental contamination could lead to health risks, disruption of business, financial legislation.
costs and loss of reputation.
Reduction in the use of hazardous substances, such as chlorinated solvents.
Historical use of solvents and other hazardous chemicals by plants operated by Bodycote or by plants acquired by Bodycote could have led to ground contamination.
The environmental Environmental procedures and measures in place regulations in many of the jurisdictions that Bodycote operates in impose actual or potential conforming to ISO 14001 2012: 78% of plants.
obligations on Bodycote to remediate contaminated sites.
Bodycote incurs costs annually Environmental due diligence of businesses for 2012: 1.5m in meeting its obligations and maintains a provision of 13.9m.
is insufficient to meet the cost of remediation, then this could have an impact on the Groups results.
Some of the Groups heat treatment plants continue to use solvents and hazardous chemicals in small quantities.
Operational Risks Service quality The Bodycote brand is reliant on the repeatable delivery of parts to agreed specification Maintain industry relevant accreditations.
Deterioration in quality or service levels can cause serious longQuality systems and processes operated at plant level term damage to Bodycotes reputation with financial consequences such as the loss of a with oversight by divisional quality teams.
customer and the cost of damages or litigation.
Work that is released into use which is not All plants subjected to internal and external quality in compliance with specification could arise as a result of system or human failure.
Bodycote audits and inspections at least once a year.
has stringent quality systems in place managed by qualified staff.
Where necessary plants have relevant accreditations, such as ISO 9001, Nadcap and TS 16949.
Major disruption at a facility Bodycotes business processes are inherently risky and there is a possibility that a major ISO 18000 compliant SHE management systems are fire or utility outage could lead to closure of a facilitys operation.
In addition a number of being implemented by Group Head of Safety, Health sites are exposed to natural hazards, such as earthquakes, flooding and storms.
As a result and Environment with support of divisional safety and there is a possibility that service to Bodycotes customers from the affected site could be health teams.
However Bodycotes global network of 186 plants creates a framework to provide Programmed equipment maintenance and inspections.
back-up capability for any affected facility.
Independent insurer inspections to assess hazard and business interruption risks.
Overhaul of business continuity and crisis management plans.
Information technology projects The efficient operation of the Group will rely increasingly on the proper development and Project approval and progress subject to Board review.
operation of its IT systems.
Bodycote is currently undergoing a group-wide implementation Project teams made up of skilled subject matter of a new ERP system.
The impact of the re-engineered business processes will have experts supplemented with third party advisors.
significant long-term benefits on Bodycotes operational effectiveness.
However, failure to Best practice project management processes in place manage the implementation programme successfully could result in cost overruns and, with assurance provided by third parties.
potentially, disruption to the business.
Regulatory Risks Regulatory and legislative compliance The global nature of Bodycotes operations means that the Group has to comply with a Establish business processes supported by HR wide range of local and international legislative requirements, including anti-bribery and antipolicies and the Group Code of Conduct.
competition legislation, taxation legislation, employment law and import and export controls.
Implement whistleblower facility managed by a third Failure to comply with legislation could lead to substantial financial penalties, disruption party: the Open Door Line.
to business, diversion of management time, personal and corporate liability and loss of Training and awareness programmes.
Engage local specialists to support Bodycote at local, divisional and Group level.
Regular audit of the effectiveness of implemented procedures.
com Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
