Risk management Managing risk We have a robust and integrated risk management framework.
This framework sets out the responsibilities and accountabilities for risk management for the whole business The risk and compliance strategy is focused on fully supporting the Groups goal to become Britains best retail general insurer, delivering sustainable returns.
Jos Vazquez, Chief Risk officer The Board has responsibility for setting and monitoring These objectives have been developed to recognise that, for adherence to the risk strategy, risk appetite and risk framework.
long-term sustainability, we need to have sufficient economic The Board has established a risk management model that capital and we need to protect our reputation and integrity separates the businesss risk management responsibilities into in our relationships with customers and stakeholders.
three lines of defence as set out in the diagram below.
Within the Group, a well-articulated risk appetite lies at the heart Risk strategy and risk appetite of effective enterprise risk management ERM to support: The Board has set clear strategic risk objectives: t Our strategic risk objectives, as outlined above t To maintain capital adequacy t Risk management t To stabilise earnings volatility t Setting of boundaries for risk taking t To ensure stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity t Stakeholder value optimisation t To maintain stakeholder confidence Our risk management structure 3rd Line defence Internal Audit function Board of Directors t Independent assurance on adequacy and effectiveness of risk framework 1 Board Risk Committee Audit Committee 2nd Line defence Risk function Risk Management Committee t Advise Board on risk strategy and risk appetite Regulatory, Financial Enterprise and t Advise Board on appropriate compliance and International risk strategic risk risk framework and risk tools conduct risk t Oversight, challenge and support of 1st line Business units and 1st Line defence business and support functions support functions t Adhere to risk strategy and risk appetite t Own and manage risks t Compliance with risk framework t Assurance on adherence to policies 26 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review: Strategic review Risk framework Risk tools Internal External Risk assessment and registers Monitoring and testing reporting reporting Business continuity planning SOX 404 testing Risk and Stress and scenarios testing control reporting Whistle-blowing 2 IRISS system t SOX 404 t UK Corporate Incident management Governance Risk and Code Business change risk process control assessments t Annual Report Material risk register & Accounts Internal control environment t Reports to the Key risk indicators certication testing process regulators t Rating agency High level controls document submissions Data collection and analysis 2 IRISS system Own risk & solvency assessment from 2013 Internal Audit Notes: 1.
The Chief Risk officer is a member of the Executive Committee and reports to the Chief Executive officer, with a right of access to the Board Risk Committee and the Audit Committee, assuring independence of the function.
The Chief Risk officer chairs the executive Risk Management Committee, which reviews material policies for the effective management of risk across the Group.
IRISS Internal Risk Intelligence Software System is designed to facilitate a robust and consistent approach in the way we identify and capture risk information thereby signicantly enhancing our ability to measure, report and manage our risks.
The risk appetite statements are expressions of the level of risk its activities and risk management processes to remain we are prepared to accept to achieve our business objectives.
We employ a number of risk tools In order for these statements to be dened quantitatively as well to manage and monitor risk.
The output of our risk as qualitatively, they are aligned to key metrics.
These metrics management activities is thoroughly tested and reported are monitored regularly.
upon both internally and externally.
Risk appetite should not be static and the Group is committed to The policies and minimum standards cover all key risks to performing an annual review of the risk appetite framework to which the Group is exposed.
Each policy is supported by ensure its continued suitability to support a well-managed company.
minimum standards which set out the minimum level of risk management and other corporate and personal behaviours.
The strategic risk objectives link to a set of risk appetite The minimum standards are in turn supported by detailed statements and key metrics.
The table below sets out these objectives and shows, at a We incorporate the identication, assessment, management, high level, examples of corresponding appetite statements.
control, reporting and mitigation of risk as part of our daily operations.
Strategic risk objective Risk appetite statement We believe the strengths of our risk framework are: Maintain capital adequacy Maintain sufficient economic capital to a dened target t Strong culture and risk leadership underpinned by training of our people Deliver stable earnings profitability over t Engagement with the business a dened period t Embedded risk management processes, linking risk Stable and efficient access Cash outows met and capital to funding and liquidity under stress t Quantitative approach to risk analysis, for example, Maintain stakeholder No appetite for material development of a robust economic capital model.
confidence reputational, legal or Leveraging off our market leading position in home and regulatory risks motor provides access to a significant volume of data t Risk assessment and management information through The aim of the risk framework is to provide a robust, integrated risk systems proportionate, proactive and forward-looking process for risk t Inuencing decision-making and shaping behaviours, management across the Group.
A central component of this via the provision of accurate, timely and relevant risk framework is the Groups policies and minimum standards, advice and challenge which inform the business as to how it is required to conduct Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27 Risk appetite Policy framework and minimum standards Executive management reporting, for example Risk Management Committee, Board Risk Committee Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties The Group writes products that are subject to a number of uncertainties and risks.
It is a key role of the Risk function to ensure that these risks have been identied, measured and considered throughout the business.
Principal risks Impact Management and mitigation The value of the t Constant monitoring and management of agreed strategic targets Strategic risk Group decreases, The economic climate could put at risk t Monitoring of cost savings to ensure they remain on track resulting in a lack our ability to meet our strategic objectives t Investment in brand awareness, and improved pricing and claims models of shareholder in the areas of distribution, pricing, claims, t Upgrading and enhancement of numerous operational processes confidence.
and systems We may fail to execute our ongoing strategic transformation plan, and the expected benets of that plan may not be achieved at the time or to the extent expected, or at all.
Adverse loss t Underwriting guidelines for all business transacted, restricting the Underwriting and pricing risk experience types and classes of business that may be accepted We are subject to the risk that inappropriate impacting current business could be written or not specically t Exception reports and underwriting monitoring tools year and future excluded and inappropriate prices charged.
t Internal quality assurance programmes year business This includes catastrophe risk arising from t Pricing policies by product line and by brand performance.
losses due to unpredictable natural and t Analysis of comprehensive data to rene pricing man-made events affecting multiple covered risks particularly given the concentration of t Insurance governance forums whose remit include examination of data our home business in the UK.
t Central control of policy wordings t Purchase of catastrophe reinsurance to limit the exposure t Quarterly analysis of all property portfolios to determine expected maximum losses t Investment in enhanced external data to mitigate exposures for example, ood and individual underwriting risk through Geospatial Adverse t Technical reserves are estimated by: Reserving risk development in Due to the uncertain nature and timing of the A range of actuarial and statistical techniques, with projections prior year reserves risks to which we are exposed, we cannot of ultimate claims cost involving assumptions across a range of resulting in a precisely determine the amounts that we will variables, including estimates of trends in claims frequency and financial loss.
ultimately pay to meet the liabilities covered average claim amounts based on facts and circumstances at a by the insurance policies written.
given point in time Making assumptions on other variable factors including: the legal, social, economic and regulatory environments: Ogden discount rate and the process by which it is set: results of litigation: and the extent and terms on which periodical payment orders PPOs are made by the Courts.
Other factors considered include rehabilitation and mortality trends, business mix, consumer behaviour, market trends, underwriting assumptions, risk pricing models, ination in medical care costs, future earnings ination and other relevant forms of ination, the performance and operation of reinsurance assets and future investment returns Stress and scenario testing Managements best estimate of reserves being equal to or in excess of the actuarial best estimate Operational risk Adverse events t We have upgraded and enhanced many of our operational processes The risks of direct or indirect losses resulting with potential and systems, including the claims system and fraud detection system.
from inadequate or failed internal processes, financial, This includes enhancing our ERM framework to integrate risk, business fraudulent claims or from systems and people, reputational, and capital strategies or from external events including changes legal and t We maintain a robust internal control environment in the competitor, regulatory or legislative customer impacts.
t We have developed a bespoke risk capture, management environments.
In particular we have IT systems and reporting system risk, as the Group is highly dependent on t Migration of IT onto a new enhanced platform the use of third-party information technology, software, data and service providers.
28 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review: Strategic review Principal risks Impact Management and mitigation t Our investment portfolio is managed and controlled through: Investment risk Adverse movements due to asset value Market risk the risk of adverse financial Investment strategy and guidelines proposed to the Board reduction, mismatch impact due to changes in fair values of by the Investment Committee and monitored by the Asset in assets and future cash ows of instruments held in the and Liability Committee liabilities, and default investment portfolio as a result of changes Diverse holding of types of assets including geographies, of third parties.
in interest rates, credit spread, foreign sectors and credit ratings exchange rates and property values.
Inability to meet cash Utilisation of risk reduction techniques, for example hedging ows under stress.
Credit risk the risk of exposure if another party fails to perform its financial obligations, including Stress testing and scenario analysis failing to perform them in a timely manner.
Liquidity risk the risk of maintaining insufficient financial resources to meet business obligations as and when they fall due.
Loss due to default t Credit limits are set for counterparties, particularly banks Counterparty risk of banks, reinsurers, We partner with many suppliers and the t Requirement for minimum credit ratings for reinsurers brokers or other failure of any of these to perform their t Broker credit exposures are monitored by the business third parties.
financial obligations or perform them in a timely manner could result in a financial loss.
The principal area of counterparty risk is our use of reinsurance against catastrophe risk.
Regulatory risk Customer impact, t We have a constructive and open relationship with our regulators Changes in law and regulations are not financial loss and and other ofcial bodies for example the Ministry of Justice and the identied, understood, or are inappropriately regulatory censure.
Ofce of Fair Trading, in addition to specic risk management tools and incorrectly interpreted, or adopted, or and resources to minimise our exposure to regulatory risk Regulatory sanction, business practices are not efficiently modied.
legal action or Further, there is a risk that current legal or revenue loss.
regulatory requirements are not complied with.
For example, in the beginning of 2012, the FSA imposed a 2.17 million ne on the Group in relation to complaint le alterations.
Potential customer t Our organisational culture prioritises a consistent approach towards Conduct risk detriment, financial customers and the interests of customers are at the heart of how The risk of failing to deliver the appropriate loss and regulatory we operate treatment for our customers throughout all censure and stages of the customer journey and that our t We have developed a robust customer conduct risk management sanction.
people fail to behave with integrity.
framework, to minimise our exposure to conduct risk Loss of brand value t Our brand and reputation risk is regularly reviewed by various Brand and reputational risk negatively impacts governance committees We are dependent on the strength of our our ability to retain brands, our reputation with customers and t A key focus for us is to build our brands business through marketing, and write new distributors in the sale of products and whilst regularly monitoring performance using a range of brand metrics business.
We have entered into various t We seek to offer a superior service to customers and to treat strategic partnerships that are important customers fairly in line with FSA principles to the marketing, sale and distribution of our products.
As long as RBS Group remains a significant shareholder, there are certain risks that apply to the RBS Group and, should they arise, may have an adverse impact on our business.
For example, RBS Group will continue to exert substantial inuence over us while it has a substantial shareholding: RBS Group could face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution procedures: our contractual arrangements may be impacted by events that occur within RBS Group: and RBS Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the state aid restructuring plan which could adversely affect us.
RBS Group has a legal obligation to divest its controlling interest in the Group by the end of 2013 and completely divest by the end of 2014.
The manner and exact timing of any divestment is uncertain.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 29
