22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained by the Manager with the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000, having first consulted with the Chairman.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports and that the statutory obligations of the Company are met.
Finally, the Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls internal controls which are designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Companys internal controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Companys investment objective and or adhere to the Companys investment policy and or investment limits.
This system can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that the necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review.
There are no significant failings or weaknesses that have occurred throughout the year ended 31 March 2012 and up to the date of this annual financial report.
The Board reviews financial reports and performance against forecasts, relevant stock market criteria and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and the Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced annually on the internal controls and procedures in place for the operation of secretarial and administrative, custodial, investment management and accounting activities.
The programme of reviews is set up by the Manager and the reports are not necessarily directed to the affairs of any one client of the Manager.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities for the Companys accounting records and financial statements are set out on page 31 and the Independent Auditors Report is set out on page 32.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the
