16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Borrowings and Debt The Company has 200 million of borrowings in the form of two 100 million nominal debentures.
1 3 The 11 2% debenture matures in 2014 and the 7 4% debenture in 2022.
The weighted average interest rate is 9.625%.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of 10% of assets held by the Custodian which was undrawn at 31 March 2012: this facility is available to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences and was largely unused during the year.
Future Trends Details of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Managers Report on pages 8 to 9.
Further details concerning the risks affecting the Company are set out under the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section that follows.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the capital net asset value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark or index and an increase in dividends by more than the growth of RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day-to-day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market Risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys assets principally consist of quoted securities.
The prices of these securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and demand reflecting investor sentiment.
Over the coming months, there is the risk that European policy makers fail to restore market confidence by implementing an effective and lasting solution to the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis.
Such failure could lead to a general curtailment of credit availability in global banking and add significantly to market risk in the near term.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of the Companys shares and its earnings and dividends may consequently also experience volatility and may decline.
Investment Performance Risk The Board sets performance objectives and delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
The achievement of the Companys performance objectives relative to the market requires active management of the portfolio of assets and securities.
The Managers approach is to construct a portfolio which is compatible with the Managers view of future trends in the UK and global economies.
The Manager is a long term investor, prepared to take substantial positions in securities and sectors which may well be out of fashion, but which the Manager believes will have potential for material increases in earnings and, in due course, dividends and share prices.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager can lead to underperformance of the benchmark index and or income targets.
The Managers style may result in a concentrated portfolio with significant overweight or underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index and consequently the Companys performance may deviate significantly, possibly for extended periods, from that of the benchmark index.
However the Board and Manager believe that the investment process and policy outlined above should, over the long term, meet the Companys objectives of capital growth in excess of the benchmark index and real dividend growth.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Board does not specify asset allocations.
Information on the Companys performance against the benchmark and peer group is provided to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Board uses this to review the performance of the Company, taking into account how performance relates to the Companys objectives.
The Manager is responsible for monitoring the portfolio selected and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 Gearing Risk The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million from its Debenture Stocks in the equity market.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the length of gearing is appropriate.
The Manager has full discretion over the amount of cash from the Companys Debenture Stocks to be invested in the equity market whilst the issuance, repurchase or restructuring of debt are for the Board to decide.
Information related to gearing is provided to the Directors as part of the Board papers.
The Board regularly reviews the level of gearing.
Additionally, the Board keeps under review the cost of buying back debt.
Income Dividend Risk The Company is subject to the risk that income generation from its investments fails to reach the level of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the review of detailed income forecasts and comparison against budget.
These are contained within the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of income at each meeting.
Share Price Risk There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV may not be fully reflected in the share price from time to time.
The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within agreed parameters.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
The Company has not repurchased shares in the last year.
Control Systems Risk The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager including: best practice standards in fund management operations: financial controls: meeting regulatory requirements: the management of the relationship with the Custodian in respect of the custody and security of the Companys assets: and the management of the relationship with the Registrar.
Consequently in respect of these activities the Company is dependent on the Managers control systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, both of which are monitored by the Manager in the context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure that these controls are performed in a satisfactory manner.
In addition, the Company relies on the soundness and efficiency of the Custodian for good title and timeliness of receipt and delivery of securities.
A risk-based programme of internal audits is carried out by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
An internal controls report providing an assessment of these risks is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported to and considered by the Board.
Reliance on Third Party Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors are all appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant upon the performance of third party providers for its executive function.
The Companys most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services are delegated.
The Company has other contractual arrangements with third parties to act as Auditor, Registrar, Custodian and Broker.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to successfully pursue its investment policy and expose the Company to risk of loss or to reputational risk.
In particular, the Manager performs services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity
