Risk Description Mitigations Economic environment Persistent economic Continued uncertainty in the Close monitoring of lead indicators in the housing market notably the recession and global economy and the impact of numbers of visitors to our sales outlets, sales rates and ASP.
government austerity government measures to reduce Work in progress levels are matched to sales levels.
measures the budget deficit adversely affects Land acquisition is focused in the south of England, where the economy consumer confidence and demand is expected to remain robust.
Consequential A cautious gearing position with a conservatively structured balance impact is falling revenues, profits sheet is retained.
and potentially asset carrying values.
Mortgage finance Limited Mortgage The availability of mortgage finance, Investing in land more suited to traditional homes, with reduced focus availability to new particularly deposit requirements on the first time buyer.
home buyers for first time buyers, is fundamental Providing a range of purchase assistance schemes to our customers.
Further Continually innovating to find additional ways to assist customers to restrictions on mortgages granted purchase a home.
could reduce demand for homes and therefore revenues and profits.
Land procurement Insufficient Expansion of the business and Clearly defined strategy and geographical focus.
investment in land the delivery of the Groups strategy Rigorous due diligence for land acquisition to preserve defined to support business to improve shareholder returns hurdle rates.
strategy from the development of land is Regular review the pipeline of new land purchases.
curtailed, with existing activity Investment in procurement and promotion of strategic levels compromised.
People An inability to attract, The loss of key staff or the failure to A reward system that motivates achievement of performance targets.
develop or retain attract, develop and retain suitable Development programme individually tailored for our employees.
good people talent may inhibit the Groups ability Graduate and apprenticeship schemes.
Health, safety and environment Unsafe practices A loss of trust in the ability of Bovis A consultative committee reviews performance and regulatory within our Homes to build homes safely and in requirements for health, safety and environmental matters.
construction an environmentally responsible way.
Monitoring health, safety and environmental performance against a activities causing Adversely affecting the reputation standard of excellence.
injury or death to and financial health of the business.
A requirement for regular training for all staff and site based personnel.
our stakeholders and damage to communities Planning and regulations Non compliance to Increased costs and significant delays Land acquisition costs appropriately reflect latest and impending building changes in legislation in production.
regulations that cannot be mitigated.
and industry Close monitoring of changes in planning policy by experienced team.
regulations New building techniques and advances continue to be investigated, in response to the code for sustainable homes.
As the activities of the Group evolve, the nature of the risks on which it is focused evolve.
For instance, as the Group has acquired land successfully, the operational risk shifts to the progression of these sites into the build and sales phase, with the challenges of gaining detailed planning and of operationally gearing up the Group to increase build and sales activity.
However, it is important to recognise that whilst conditions may have improved, profound uncertainties remain with regard to the UK economy which do suggest that appropriate levels of caution should be maintained.
22 | Annual report and accounts | Strategy Risk and uncertainties Strategy The availability of mortgage finance and customer deposit requirements are the key issues currently facing the Group Bovis Homes Group PLC | 23 24 | Annual report and accounts | Strategy Strategy Bovis Homes Group PLC | 25
