10 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Managing risk The Directors are committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group.
F&C has a culture that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard the interests of our clients and other key stakeholders.
The Group Performance and Risk Review Committee meets Effective execution of strategy regularly normally monthly to ensure an appropriate level of Key Risk The success of the Group depends upon the successful oversight is applied to investment performance and risk.
formulation, articulation and execution of its strategy and the ability to adapt to changes in the business environment to ensure it remains competitive.
Growth in third-party institutional and Loss of key employees consumer AUM and, more critically, revenues, is key to the Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the support of its successful delivery of strategy.
Poor execution may lead to a lack of employees in key areas including investment, distribution, marketing growth and competitiveness and reduced profitability.
Over the last eighteen months, the Group has rationalised its business and headcount in line with its strategic Mitigation The Group has the articulated objective of achieving goals and ambitions.
The loss of key employees may prevent the competitive scale in areas of strategic focus through consistent Group from winning new business or meeting its strategic goals, and investment in products, channels and human resources.
The Group may lead to client outflows and the loss of key mandates.
has sought to ensure that its product development, distribution and investment processes are aligned, positioning it to deliver a Mitigation The Groups compensation model targets the retention competitive product offering in areas of key focus.
Clearly defined of key employees, through competitive cash and long-term distribution targets allow management to monitor progress in AUM remuneration.
All employees receive an annual appraisal which and revenue growth.
reviews their performance against clearly defined objectives with the aim of encouraging strong performance.
Reliance on key individuals Uncertain economic outlook is mitigated by the Groups team-based approach to investment Key Risk The UK and global macroeconomic outlook remains management.
Moreover, we seek to reduce our dependence on key uncertain.
Client investment preferences, and the Groups AUM and staff through the recruitment of suitably skilled individuals and by revenues, may be impacted by underlying economic and market ensuring succession plans are in place for senior roles to provide conditions.
In addition, a substantial proportion of the Groups emergency or immediate coverage.
revenues are denominated in Euros.
Adverse market conditions in one or more asset classes or changes in economic factors may lead Breach of client or portfolio limits to a reduction in AUM and or revenues.
In addition, actual or Key Risk Many of the Groups investment mandates include perceived changes in market or economic outlook may lead clients specific limits, restrictions and or exclusions on the construction or to alter their allocations to particular products or asset classes.
content of portfolios agreed with the client.
In addition, certain pooled fund products may be subject to specific regulatory or fiscal Mitigation The Group offers competitive products across a wide limits, restrictions and or exclusions.
Any breach of client mandate range of asset classes, including equity, fixed income, property and may render the Group liable to pay financial compensation.
Multi-asset, limiting its exposure to the impact of market volatility in any one market or asset class.
Further, a number of the Groups Mitigation A Group-wide database is utilised to record all investment-solutions products are much longer term in nature, and mandate-related rules.
Fund managers provide the Groups first their performance and marketability is less impacted by short-term line of defence in ensuring that funds are managed within mandate.
The Board periodically consider hedging the In addition, a control function provides a regular review of mandate Groups Euro-denominated cashflows.
Investment performance Regulation Key Risk The delivery of strong investment performance depends Key Risk The UK, European and Global regulatory environments upon the successful management of client portfolios against targets, are rapidly evolving.
The expectations of financial regulators are benchmarks and or peer groups.
Failure to meet these objectives changing and regulated Groups must embed regulatory compliance could lead to outflows, may impact the Groups ability to win new in their business models to an even greater extent than previously mandates or assets and may potentially expose the Group to required.
Regulation has become, in many areas, more complex and greater risk of mandate or regulatory breach.
onerous and regulated entities are faced with shorter timelines to Mitigation Fund Managers are responsible for interpreting and interpret and implement new regulation.
There is substantial effectively managing performance and risk associated with trading complexity from overlapping regulatory directives.
The Group operates an independent Investment change may lead to consolidation in the marketplace, the launch of Risk Oversight team which monitors and challenges risks within new products, withdrawal or commoditisation of existing products client portfolios and provides appropriate management information.
and increased reliance on specialist third-party service providers as ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 11 asset managers increasingly focus on core activities of investment Mitigation The Group conducted an extensive selection and due management, client servicing and distribution.
diligence exercise prior to selecting State Street Corporation as an outsourcing provider and entering the related contractual Mitigation The Group Compliance team ensures that key arrangements.
The Group led this process using an internal project regulatory changes are identified at the earliest opportunity.
Their team, supported by external legal and consultancy advisors.
Since impact is then assessed to allow practical guidance on the proper the implementation of the contract, the Group has established a application and interpretation of any changes to be provided to all supplier and change management team to oversee and monitor relevant business areas.
Related business change is supervised third-party service delivery and ensure there is appropriate oversight through the Groups change management process and oversight and effective resolution of issues.
Arrangements are in place to provided through the Group Management Committee and Audit and ensure that State Street Corporation is incentivised to provide the Compliance Committee.
level of service that is required.
The Supplier and Change Management team holds regular service review meetings with State Loss of key clients Street Corporation as part of the ongoing governance Key Risk The Groups revenues are derived from the assets it arrangements.
manages and the relationships it has with its clients.
Historically, the Group derived a significant portion of its revenues from a small Business continuity and information technology group of strategic partner clients, with whom it had long-term Key Risk The Groups success is dependent on access to a robust contractual relationships.
These long-term relationships have either IT infrastructure and appropriate IT systems.
The Group is exposed reached, or are shortly due to reach, maturity and there is a risk that to the risk that its infrastructure and systems are unable to meet the these clients will either withdraw significant AUM or terminate their demands of client, regulatory and or technology change.
Mitigation The Group has a short and medium-term IT plan with Mitigation The Group acknowledges the revenue contribution clear objectives to meet mandatory change requirements, deliver made by its strategic partner clients, and will seek to retain these further integration of systems and enhance the agility of the Group.
relationships where it is viable and economically appropriate to do The Group maintains and periodically tests its business continuity so: our focus is on investment performance, strong relationship arrangements.
As part of its plans to enhance business continuity, management and understanding the evolving needs and the Group migrated its data centres to a new, more robust model, expectations of these clients to maximise asset retention.
However, during 2012. the Groups strategy recognises the concentration risk to these clients and seeks to mitigate it through the growth of third-party Counterparty credit exposure consumer and institutional revenues and the identification of further Key Risk The Group is exposed to credit risk and the risk of failure cost reductions which may be implemented in the event of strategic in respect of counterparties used to hold corporate cash on deposit.
Mitigation The Group adopts a low-risk approach to treasury Reliance on third parties management in respect of its capital.
The treasury policy permits Key Risk In pursuing a strategy with a focus on competitive scale, placement of Group capital only with approved counterparties and the use of outsourced service providers benefits the Group by sets out quantum and duration limits.
The Group Credit and providing cost-effective access to an industry-competitive operating Counterparty Approval Committee meets on a regular basis platform.
The Groups key outsource partner is State Street normally monthly to ensure an appropriate level of oversight is Corporation, which provides a range of back and middle office, fund applied to counterparty credit risk and to set and review appropriate accounting and transfer agency services.
Any weakness in service counterparties and exposure limits.
delivery by an outsourced provider may impact the Groups ability to meet its contractual obligations to its clients.
Further, the Groups ability to meet client demands, launch new products or meet changing regulatory or market expectations may be dependent on appropriate support from its outsourcing partner.
