an income bias and therefore a much lower weighting in Guidance, the Board has established an ongoing the UK than in the past.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing The high level of diversification across the entire the significant risks faced by the Company, and has portfolio has recently resulted in the tendency for the regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the internal Companys share price to have lower volatility than its control systems for the period.
This process has been index benchmark.
in place throughout the year under review, and to the date hereof, and will continue to be regularly reviewed Principal risks and their management by the Board.
Like all businesses, the Company faces risks and The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the uncertainties.
The Corporate Governance Statement on Company, and the Boards mitigation approach, are page 27 includes a summary of the risk management described below.
By means of the procedures set out in the summary, and in accordance with the Turnbull Principal risks and their management Strategy Risk description: Inappropriate strategy in relation to investor demands in a rapidly changing financial services and savings market.
Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Companys position as a leading savings vehicle.
Strategic issues, including its role as a global growth investment trust, are considered annually.
Management resource, stability and controls Risk description: The Manager is the main service provider and its failure to continue operating effectively could put in jeopardy the business of the Company.
Mitigation: The Board meets regularly with the senior management of the Manager and its Internal Audit function, and has access to publicly available information indicative of the Managers financial position and performance.
The Board has contingency arrangements to facilitate the ongoing operation of the business in the event of any such failure.
The management contract can be moved at short notice.
Private equity Risk description: The majority of the underlying private equity investments are in unlisted companies.
Such investments may prove difficult or impossible to realise.
Mitigation: Private equity risks are mitigated by investing in a spread of direct, secondary, venture capital, buyout and mezzanine funds of funds and by the wide spread of underlying private equity firms, which in turn have diversified investment portfolios and vintage years.
The portfolio has recently moved to a net cash positive position.
Investment policy, gearing, currency and derivatives Risk description: Inappropriate asset allocation, sector and stock selection, currency exposure and use of gearing and derivatives leading to investment underperformance.
Mitigation: Investments are primarily in a diversified spread of international publicly listed equities with exposure to their underlying currencies.
Investment policy and performance is reviewed with the Fund Manager at each Board meeting, along with the monitoring of cash and borrowing levels as well as options written for the purpose of income enhancement.
The ability of the Company to gear up via long-term and short-term borrowings, in currencies matching those to which the portfolio is exposed, enables it to take a long-term view of the countries, markets and currencies in which it is invested, and ride out short-term volatility.
The Board approves all borrowing facility agreements and has set a limit on gearing and option writing.
Derivatives may also be used for the purpose of hedging foreign currencies, although to date none has.
