Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties Industry Risks Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Fluctuations in the capital markets Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely affect trading transaction-based alternative.
The FSA is consulting on the following: mitigate the loss of revenue from product activity and or the value of the Groups assets under High proportion of assets under administration in tax Like all businesses, the Group providers.
Although payments from administration or management, from which we derive wrappers so clients less likely to withdraw funds and lose tax faces a number of potential 1.
Banning Platforms from being funded product providers currently represent a revenues.
by product providers for both advised significant revenue stream, we believe Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
risks which, if not properly and non-advised business changes to our revenue model can be made controlled, could hinder the 2.
Permitting the only platform charge whilst remaining highly competitive to Changing markets and increased competition Strong market position with pricing power.
to be a charge payable by the platform existing and potential clients.
Having the The Group operates in a highly competitive environment with Full control over flexible platform.
successful implementation ability to provide unit rebates to clients client developing demographic trends and our continued profitability Experienced management team with a strong track record of of its strategy and have a 3.
Permitting unit rebates to be provided will help us to continue to offer clients depends on our ability to respond to these pressures and innovation and responsiveness to the market.
material impact on the longto Platform clients to enhance the highly competitive pricing and discounts.
Organisational structure and culture promotes responsiveness.
value of their investments With any rule changes only commencing Client focused with a loyal customer base.
Banning cash rebates to clients for both from 31 December 2013 at the earliest, advised and non-advised business there is time to successfully make a Evolving technology Track record of successful development.
transition to an alternative model.
The Groups technology needs to remain current if we are to High awareness and sponsorship of the importance of The Board believes that a successful risk The FSA is also asking whether it develop and enhance our systems to accommodate changing technology at Board level.
management framework balances risk and should extend the above points to all We continue to engage with the FSA on preferences, new products and the emergence of new industry Substantial development team in place.
Within the Group, responsibility retail investments and not just focus on its work on platform regulation.
Scalability project team in place for risk management and internal control Platforms.
respond to the Consultation Paper and rests with the Board.
The Board and senior we will work to ensure we can provide the Regulatory risk Strong compliance culture.
management of Hargreaves Lansdown are The FSA aim to publish final rules by good outcomes for our clients.
The Group may be materially adversely affected as a result of Business model and culture geared towards FSA principle of proactive in identifying, assessing and the end of 2012 which would then take new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the treating clients fairly.
The Executive management effect on 31 December 2013.
Hargreaves The risk factors mentioned below do not interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort should implements and maintains the systems Lansdown believes that if these proposals purport to be exhaustive as there may be emanating from the UK or Europe.
the capital resource requirement be increased.
Further details of are likely to be implemented, there are additional risks that the Group has not yet Alternative recurring revenue models are already successfully our systems for internal control and a range of recurring revenue models identified or has deemed to be immaterial The Group will need to replace a significant revenue stream if operated by the Group and these could be used to offset the risk management can be found in the available and currently used in the that could have a material adverse effect the FSA bans payments from product providers to platforms potential reduction in revenue from product providers.
business, which could be extended to on the business.
as stated as a desirable intention in its Consultation Paper CP There is no guarantee that such a ban on revenue from product 12 12. providers will ultimately be implemented as much consultation The low risk profile of the business has will first need to take place.
This means there is plenty of time to not changed significantly this year.
One make representations and carefully review and implement the of our highlighted risks each year is Risk Management Framework most appropriate strategic change to our revenue model that market volatility and this has certainly works for both our clients and the profitability of the Group.
Executive Committee and Audit Committee been experienced in 2012.
Although the Competitive prices and service offering will be maintained to ensure business will not be lost to competitors many of whom will markets remained volatile in 2012 and in fact were down circa7% for the year, the in any case be faced with the same rule change should it occur.
Risk Committee business still managed to grow organically such that the value of clients investments Changes in taxation law The Government has a clear priority to reinvigorate savings Group Risk Register Process grew which in turn helped increase the Changes made to tax legislation could reduce the in order to plan for an ageing population, which is currently Group revenue.
Market volatility arising attractiveness of some of the Groups investment products under-provided for.
This will create opportunities for SIPP and Rank from such factors as the Euro crisis such as ISAs and SIPPs.
remains an accepted risk, although the high percentage of assets in tax wrappers Damage to the Groups reputation Clients educated to improve awareness of potential boiler and a cash option on our platform The risk of reputational damage through the actions of room and other online scams.
Assess Mitigate does reduce the impact of such market unassociated third parties such as copycat websites to Hargreaves Lansdown security procedures are well turbulence on our performance.
fraudulently target client funds needs to be minimised.
communicated to clients so they are more likely to question anything out of the ordinary.
Ongoing intensive monitoring and response.
In terms of regulatory risk, on 27 June 2012, the FSA issued Consultation Paper Identify Monitor CP 12 12 The Platform Paper.
In this paper the FSA repeated messages made in earlier papers about the future regulation Operational Managers of Platforms.
24 25 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
