Risks and Risk Management The Company has put in place a risk management framework consider the Groups key risks on a quarterly basis.
The Board covering all aspects of the Companys business.
Due to the reviews the key risks affecting the Company at each regular nature of the Company being an Investment Company and board meeting, by reference to a risk analysis matrix developed the outsourcing of key services to the Investment Adviser and and monitored in conjunction with the Investment Adviser.
If a other service providers, reliance is placed on the Groups service new risk arises or the likelihood of a risk occurring increases, providers own systems and controls.
where appropriate, a mitigation strategy is developed and implemented, together with enhanced monitoring by the The identication, assessment and management of risk are Investment Adviser.
integral elements of the Investment Advisers and the Operators work in both management of the existing portfolio and in The Boards Management Engagement Committee also reviews seeking new investment opportunities.
the performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key service providers on at least an annual basis and this review The Directors set out the material risks relating to the Groups includes a consideration of the Investment Advisers internal portfolio and investing in the Company as at February 2012 in controls and their effectiveness.
In addition, the Investment the Companys C Share Prospectus, which is available from the Advisers risk management team reviews compliance against the Companys website.
documented procedures and controls on an annual basis, and reports their findings to the Board.
The Investment Adviser and the Operator have established internal controls to manage these risks, and also review and Risk Assessment Risk Groups Risk Type External Economic factors Legal new laws and legislation Tax and accounting changes in practice and policies Political changes in policy, both in relation to procurement and the management of existing PFI PPP P3 projects Regulatory changes in polices and requirements Strategic Financial objectives impacting on achieving targets Share price discount premium to NAV Management Groups reliance on service providers underperformance, solvency and breach of regulations Investment Bidding overpaying for assets Acquisition due diligence fails to unearth risks which impact performance Equity risks associated with PFI PPP P3 projects Performance under-performance by service providers Project termination Concentration over-reliance on a client or service contractor Financial and Treasury Finance and liquidity lack of financial resources Counterparties reliance on financial institutions Currency exchange rate exposure Interest rates both on debt funding and deposit accounts HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 41 Risks and Risk Management continued External Risks The Group currently has a broad exposure to the PFI PPP improved.
HM Treasury is currently conducting a wide-ranging P3 markets in the UK, the EU currently the Netherlands and consultation and this is likely to shape the new way private Ireland, and Canada.
The Group has investments, business sector capital is used to fund new public infrastructure in the UK.
activities, registered companies and limited partnerships in the There was more media attention around PFI in the UK in the year, UK, Luxemburg and Guernsey.
These activities and entities can resulting from the reports published by the Select Committees be affected by changes in economic factors, local legislation, and the publication of the UK Governments Infrastructure taxation and regulatory frameworks.
The performance of the portfolio of 70 investments as at Each of the Groups projects is built from a legal contract with a 31 March 2012 is affected by a number of economic factors public sector client.
There is a risk, albeit slight, that a political including ination rates, interest rates, and foreign exchange decision could be taken to seek to unilaterally change the terms rates.
Most, if not all of the PFI PPP P3 projects mitigate to of a contract.
Although such a development would have wide some extent against changes in ination rates by seeking ranging implications for the market, if it were attempted and was to match their indexation of contractual revenues to their successful, the value of the Groups investment portfolio and its indexation of contractual costs.
This is not always achievable ability to meet target distributions would be affected.
where costs are not indexed, an example being where bank debt interest rate exposure has been swapped into a xed rate.
Under Guernsey legislation, the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme and is supervised by the Most PFI PPP P3 concessions provide some or total protection, Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
The Investment through their contractual structures, in relation to changes in Adviser is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services legislation which affect either the project asset or the way the Authority in the UK, in accordance with the Financial Services services are provided.
Both the Company and its advisers continually monitor any potential or actual changes to Changes in tax legislation and accounting practices can affect regulations to ensure both the Group and its service providers both the individual investments and can have an impact on the remain compliant.
Groups corporate subsidiaries and corporate structure.
Where possible, this will be mitigated, but there will be instances where The EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive this may not be possible and in these instances there could be is expected to be transposed into the national legislation of each an adverse impact on the financial performance of the Group.
EU Member State in mid-2013 following a series of consultations The UK government is currently reviewing alternative from both the European Commission and the European procurement methods to PFI.
It is not clear exactly what role Securities and Markets Authority together with the regulatory the private sector will play in the future.
However, with other bodies appointed at national level by European member states.
countries developing their own PFI PPP models and procuring Much of the detail of the legislation is yet to be nalised and new infrastructure, the number of projects globally continues the full impact of its implementation on the Company remains to grow.
The Group is not reliant on any particular procurement uncertain.
In January 2012, the FSA issued a discussion paper pipeline for its new investments.
DP12 1 in which it was proposed that an investment fund Our UK public sector clients continue to seek ways to nd listed on the Ofcial List, such as the Company, should itself be operation savings from existing contracted PFI projects, based treated as the alternative investment fund manager the AIFM on guidance issued by HM Treasury in July 2011.
The Investment under the AIFM Directive, rather than as had been anticipated Advisers asset management team is pro-active in assisting having the option to appoint a third party manager as its AIFM.
clients who wish to make savings and this work has been Whether or not this proposal is adopted, the implementation of ongoing since the guidance was issued.
the AIFM Directive is likely to signicantly increase regulatory and compliance costs.
It may also impose restrictions on the In the year, both the Treasury and Public Accounts Select marketing of the Companys shares in the EU, which in turn Committees have published reports looking at the performance may have a negative effect on marketing and liquidity of the of PFI as a procurement model and exploring ways it can be Companys shares generally.
42 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Strategic Risks The Companys strategy is to deliver a progressive distribution provide to the Group.
Any performance issues are monitored growth with the aim of achieving 7.0p per share by March carefully, and if the Board is not satisfied with the level of service 2013.
At the same time, the aim is to maintain or grow the net delivery, the Board will seek to change service providers.
asset value NAV of the Company.
Since the current portfolio In relation to the Investment Adviser, the Board takes comfort consists of investments in concessions with nite lives, if no new from the fact that the Investment Adviser has a track record in acquisitions are made, there will come a point in the Companys managing infrastructure investments and has developed an evolution when it will become necessary to start repaying appropriate and detailed set of policies, procedures, compliance capital.
This is shown diagrammatically in the chart on page 22. systems, and risk controls.
The Investment Adviser is subject to The ability both to deliver growth in distributions to routine review and the Board is satisfied that there is sufficient shareholders and to maintain and grow its NAV is dependent depth of expertise within the Investment Advisers infrastructure on a number of economic factors outside the Companys or the team that the Group is not reliant on any single individual.
Whilst reasonable assumptions Investment Adviser has been recruiting additional staff within have been factored into business plans, significant external its infrastructure team over the last year, and this has both factors could materially affect the Company and impede its strengthened and deepened the team of resources on which the ability to deliver its financial objectives.
Examples of such events Group relies.
include a prolonged period of deation, a rise in corporation tax Investment Risks rates, and changes in tax legislation affecting the Group and its Acquiring a new investment in an infrastructure project via a investments.
trade sale involves a certain level of risk.
These are mitigated The Company publishes a NAV per share twice a year.
The where possible by a structured process of thorough due method of valuing the Groups investments is described in diligence, the agreement of suitable protections where possible detail in the Investment Advisers Report.
To assist in managing in the sale and purchase agreements with the vendor, and the share price premium or discount to NAV, the Board has the site visits to view and inspect the projects assets.
However powers to both buy back shares as well as issue additional due diligence may fail to identify risks and the business plan shares via tap issues or C Share capital raisings.
There is no assumptions in the acquisition model may not subsequently guarantee that these measures will minimise the discount or be achieved.
The Investment Adviser and Operator have internal processes The Investment Adviser meets existing and potential new and controls, developed from its experience of managing funds shareholders throughout the year to explain the Company, its and investing in infrastructure, to minimise these risks through investments, its performance, and the key risks.
The Board regular peer group review and internal approval processes.
All believes these ongoing meetings and briengs help educate the investment decisions are made by an Investment Committee market and inform both existing and new potential shareholders.
which has approved terms of reference to ensure only those staff with appropriate skill sets have been appointed, any conicts Management Risks should they arise are suitably managed, and an appropriate The Group is heavily reliant on the Investment Adviser for the minimum quorum is achieved.
Specialist advisers such as day-to-day management of the Group and to achieve the Groups lawyers, technical consultants, and tax advisers are retained objectives.
The Investment Adviser is supported by other service to carry out specic due diligence on potential acquisitions to providers to the Group.
Failure by the Investment Adviser or minimise this risk.
a service provider could have a material impact on the Group.
Equally a loss of key personnel from a service provider may have Investments are normally acquired through competition and an impact on the performance of the Group.
so it is important to analyse the investment and determine the appropriate value the Group is prepared to pay.
The risk of overThe Management Engagement Committee of the Board reviews paying is less than for infrastructure assets requiring revenue the performance of each service provider on an annual basis forecasts, since the majority of the revenue and cost streams in and seeks to ensure that each service provider has adequate PFI PPP P3 projects and similar asset types are contractual and systems and controls in place in relation to the services they therefore xed in real terms.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 43 Risks and Risk Management continued Whilst most construction and operational risks in a PFI PPP A key risk within a PFI project is the various counterparty P3 project are laid off to sub-contractors through a wellexposures: the client, the sub-contractors, and the providers established contractual framework, there are occasions when of finance and financial services.
The Group is careful costs and or risks are retained within the SPV.
These include to manage its concentration exposures to any one party a number of routine running cost items and are also likely carefully.
Whilst the Group is currently predominantly to include: UK PFI PPP investments, the Group now has five non-UK investments.
Sub-contractor and financial counter-parties Insurance Premiums.
If insurance premiums are not exposures are monitored and the Group seeks a balanced subject to pass down to a service provider, any increases portfolio with no over-reliance on a single party.
are for the account of the project.
To provide some protection against substantial increases the majority Financial and Treasury of the projects have negotiated premium risk sharing The Groups investments and the Group itself require debt agreements with the public sector authority such that finance to achieve its business objectives.
All of the Groups when an agreed cap is met the increased premium is PFI PPP P3 investments have long term funding in place mostly, or wholly, taken by the authority.
and do not need renancing to meet their financial plans.
Life Cycle also called Asset Renewal or Major The Group renewed its debt facilities in February 2012 and Maintenance.
Lifecycle is the budget to replace parts now has a 150m revolving facility available.
This facility will of the projects assets which are outside the routine be utilised to make further acquisitions of new investments maintenance contract.
Examples in a building will include and there is a risk that it will not be possible to raise equity oor nishes e. g. carpets, doors, windows, ceilings and capital to pay down this facility by way of tap issues and mechanical and electrical equipment.
In some cases this further C Share issues.
If this proves to be the case, the Group risk and the budget for replacement is passed down to the will either need to extend or renance the facility or dispose maintenance contractor, and in the remaining projects, of selected investments to enable it to meet its repayment it sits with the project company.
There is a risk that the obligations.
budget is inadequate or expenditure needs to be carried The Group and its PFI PPP P3 investments have a number out earlier than forecast.
For the current portfolio, the of financial counterparties providing a range of facilities Group regularly assesses the risk and considers that the including debt funding, hedges, monoline insurance wrapping, current lifecycle provisions are reasonable and adequate.
bank deposit facilities, and insurance.
Failure of a financial Once acquired, investments need to perform in line with party could have a material effect on the Group depending on their business plans.
Underperformance can be caused the nature of the service being provided.
The greatest risk is by a number of factors, the most likely of which is the with the deposit banks where the Group and its investments underperformance of a service delivery partner.
The have cash on short and medium term deposits.
The Investment Investment Adviser plays an active role in the management of Adviser monitors this exposure across the portfolio to make the Groups investments to ensure any trends in performance sure there is no over-reliance on any single institution and that are picked up and if necessary, corrected accordingly.
In a all counterparties have acceptable credit ratings.
severe case, the project can terminate a sub-contractor who The Group has limited foreign currency exposure at present, fails to perform and either self-manage the services or tender with three investments in Euros and two in Canadian dollars.
The cost of this action would, This may change in the future depending on whether UK or where possible, be recovered from the previous supplier.
To date the Group has There is a risk that an existing project might be terminated, balance-sheet hedged the value of its overseas investments either voluntarily or for default.
In these circumstances, the and now uses a combination of balance sheet hedging and compensation payable may not cover the carrying value of hedging prospective income on a short term basis.
This risk is not considered to be high due, in part, to the requirement for the public sector client to fund these termination costs which include the cost of repaying the debt secured to finance the project.
44 HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 The Group is exposed to interest rate uctuations, both on its borrowing and cash deposits.
The PFI PPP P3 projects where bank funded, have interest rate hedges in place on their borrowings to minimise interest volatility.
It is possible to some extent to mitigate rate uctuations on the cash deposits by selecting the deposit period.
However in the current low interest rate economy, the PFI PPP P3 projects are not earning as much from their cash deposits as they were four years ago.
This has impacted the valuation of the portfolio, since it is an inherent risk where options to mitigate are limited.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 45
