branches and the repositioning of our activities capture significant revenue opportunities utilising, towards international businesses.
in particular, CMBs potential for increasing referrals and cross-selling with GB&M and GPB.
CMB is now focused on five hubs contributing over 50% of US corporate imports and exports, 20 Faster-growing regions as a share of Group data including the West Coast Southeast and 2007 2012 Midwest.
difference percentage 2007 2012 points pp Global Banking serves top-tier multinationals and Global Markets New York provides a hub US$6bn PBT 64% 105% 41pp for international clients across America and globally, providing US dollar funding.
US$9bn 21 39% Revenue 55% 16pp RBWM and GPB target internationally mobile Gross loans US$151bn clients in large metropolitan centres on the West and advances 24% 39% 15pp to customers and East coasts.
Deposits from US$190bn 41% 47% customers 6pp Global Private Banking c. 12,545 FTE Headcount 57% The private banking industry faces challenges 65% 8pp from stricter regulatory requirements, particularly 100% 100% to its international banking model, and increasing competition to capture new wealth inflows.
To meet Faster growing Developed these challenges and better serve the needs of our For footnotes, see page 120. clients, GPB is repositioning its business to focus on priority markets and improve its operational We will actively deploy capital in our home standards in the following ways: and priority growth markets see HSBCs market operational risk and compliance GPB will structure on page 16, access faster-growing markets adhere to the highest standards in the industry, and all major trade corridors and capture growth and will continue to strengthen its compliance opportunities in trade finance as competitors and risk framework, focusing on global deleverage.
standards and tax transparency: Our aim in executing our strategy is to be integrated operating model GPB has regarded as the worlds leading international bank.
implemented a new global operating model We have defined financial targets to achieve a return that will provide better integration and on equity of between 12% and 15% with a core tier 1 coordination between geographical regions, ratio of between 9.5% and 10.5%, and achieve a cost and it will complete the roll-out of improved efficiency ratio of between 48% and 52%.
We have data security and compliance governance, also defined Key Performance Indicators to monitor systems and processes: the outcomes of actions across the three areas of capital deployment, cost efficiency and growth integration with the Group GPB will intensify see page 22. collaboration with CMB to access wealth created by entrepreneurs who already bank Risk with HSBC on the business side.
GPB will also contribute to a seamless Group wealth As a provider of banking and financial proposition for personal customers: and services, risk is at the core of our day-to-day activities.
capturing growth GPB will focus investment on the most attractive developed and fasterThe chart below is designed to provide a high level growing wealth markets where it can build guide to how HSBCs business activities are reflected access to well established client franchises in our risk measures and in our balance sheet.
and strong local and international product The third party assets and liabilities shown capabilities.
provide a guide to the proportion of the Groups balance sheet which is contributed by each of them.
Growing HSBC In addition, we have used the regulatory RWAs to We continue to position HSBC for growth.
We also illustrate the relative size of the risks each of them continue to benefit from the closer coordination and incur.
collaboration among our four global businesses to 19 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Risk Exposure to risks arising from the business activities of global businesses Other HSBC including Holding Company Global RBWM CMB GB&M GPB business Deposits Deposits Deposits Deposits HSBC holding company and Accounts services Payments and cash Payments and cash Account services central operations management management Credit and lending Credit and lending Credit and lending Balance sheet Asset management Asset management management International trade Wealth solutions and Financial advisory Business and receivables Credit and lending financial planning Broking activities finance Asset and trade Broking Corporate finance Commercial finance Life insurance via GB&M insurance and Corporate finance manufacturing investments Alternative Markets investments Securities services US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Balance Assets 535 Assets 363 Assets 1,859 Assets 118 Assets 187 22 sheet Customer Customer Customer Customer Customer accounts 562 accounts 338 accounts 332 accounts 106 accounts 2 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Credit risk 232 Credit risk 366 Credit risk 259 Credit risk 18 Credit risk 25 Operational risk 45 Operational risk 31 Counterparty Operational risk 4 Operational risk RWAs credit risk 48 Operational risk 41 Market risk 55 Risk Liquidity and funding risk, Pension risk, Fiduciary risk, Reputational risk, Compliance risk, profile Sustainability risk and Insurance risk, which is predominantly in RBWM and CMB.
In carrying out its business activities, HSBC Risk factors incurs a range of risks, some of which are measured Our businesses are exposed to a variety of risk and managed via capital, some by other mechanisms.
factors that could potentially affect the results of For the former, we use both regulatory and economic our operations or financial condition.
Currently, the Groups risk appetite is most affected by the regulatory capital dimension as it Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk exceeds economic capital.
The table above shows the Current economic and market conditions may Pillar 1 regulatory capital demand for those risks and adversely affect our results.
Under this regulatory capital framework, the capital invested in our We have exposure to the ongoing economic crisis Insurance business is deducted from regulatory in the eurozone.
capital: as at 31 December 2012, the capital invested We are subject to political and economic risks in in our Insurance business was US$10.1bn.
HSBC is the countries in which we operate, including the also exposed to other risks as shown in the table risk of government intervention.
The regulatory capital required against these Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may other risks is covered within the total capital that affect our results.
We have identified a comprehensive suite of Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to risk factors which encompasses the broad range of our business model risks we are exposed to, but may not necessarily be Failure to comply with certain regulatory deemed as top or emerging risks.
The risk factors requirements would have an adverse material inform our ongoing assessment of our top and effect on our results and operations.
This assessment may result in our risk appetite being revised.
We are subject to a number of legal and regulatory actions and investigations, the outcomes of which are inherently difficult to 20 predict, but unfavourable outcomes could have a Our financial statements are based in part on material adverse effect on our operating results assumptions and estimates which, if inaccurate, and brand.
could cause material misstatement of the results and financial position of the Group.
Unfavourable legislative or regulatory developments, or changes in the policy of Third parties may use us as a conduit for illegal regulators or governments, could generate model activities without our knowledge, which could risk and could have a significant adverse effect on have a material adverse effect on us.
our operations, financial condition and prospects.
We may not achieve all the expected benefits of The UK Government has proposed draft our strategic initiatives.
legislation for banking reforms based on the recommendations of the Independent Risks related to our business Commission on Banking.
Additional proposals We have significant exposure to counterparty risk are being considered in France, Germany and within the financial sector and to other risk the EU and any resulting structural changes concentrations.
could have a material adverse effect on us.
Market fluctuations may reduce our income or We are subject to tax-related risks in the countries the value of our portfolios.
in which we operate which could have a material Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to adverse effect on our operating results.
Risks related to our business operations, Any reduction in the credit rating assigned to governance and internal control systems including HSBC Holdings, any subsidiaries of HSBC compliance Holdings or any of their respective debt securities could increase the cost or decrease the availability Our risk management measures may not be of our funding and adversely affect our liquidity successful.
Operational risks are inherent in our business.
Risks concerning borrower credit quality are Our operations are subject to the threat of inherent in our businesses.
Our Insurance business is subject to risks relating Our operations are subject to disruption from the to insurance claim rates and changes in insurance external environment.
Our operations utilise third party suppliers.
HSBC Holdings is a holding company and, Our operations are highly dependent on our as a result, is dependent on dividends from its information technology systems.
subsidiaries to meet its obligations, including obligations with respect to its debt securities, and Our operations have inherent reputational risk.
to provide profits for payment of future dividends We may suffer losses due to employee to shareholders.
We may be required to make substantial We rely on recruiting, retaining and developing contributions to our pension plans.
appropriate senior management and skilled personnel.
21 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
