Business Review Key Group risk factors The key risk factors that may affect the Group are set out on the Developments in the assessment of Group risk following pages.
The Boards assessment of the key risks and uncertainties facing the Group has remained broadly unchanged over the past year, Each risk is considered in the context of the Groups strategy, set particularly with regard to illicit trade, excise and tax and financial out earlier in this business review.
Following a description of each risk.
However, as a consequence of the Boards continuing risk, its principal causes and potential impact on the Group are reappraisal of Group risks and the activities in place to address summarised.
The Groups response to each risk is highlighted.
them, some risks which have in previous years been considered The action it is taking to mitigate the risk is also set out.
as key Group risks are no longer assessed as such in terms of their impact and likelihood.
These risks are not identified in this report.
The Group has identified, actively monitors and takes action to They are, nevertheless, still addressed as Group risks, remain on mitigate many different risks.
This section does not include them the Group risk register, and continue to be reviewed in accordance all, but focuses on those risks that the Directors believe to be the with the Groups risk management procedures.
This applies, for most important ones that the business faces currently.
Not all of example, to the management of the Groups cost base, which was these risks are within the control of the Group, and other factors included in last years Annual Report but does not feature this year.
besides those listed may affect the Groups performance.
Some risks may be unknown at present.
Others, currently regarded as Conversely, the Groups internal audit procedures in 2012 immaterial, could become material risks in the future.
identified a number of opportunities for the Group to enhance its Environment Health and Safety standards in multiple sites and The risk factors listed in this section and the specific activities in operations.
After a detailed consideration of the risks faced by place to manage them should be considered in the context of the operational employees, the Board decided to elevate the risk of Groups internal control framework.
This is addressed in detail in injury, illness or death in the workplace to the status of a key the section on risk management and internal control in the Group risk in the course of the year, in order to recognise this as corporate governance statement.
This section should also be a fundamental concern of the Group and to drive improvements.
read in the context of the accompanying cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Regulatory risks facing the Group have been addressed in our risk management governance for a number of years, and reported as key risks previously.
As this category of risk has become more important in the context of the future development of the Groups business, so has the need to ensure that all aspects of regulatory risk are specifically identified and addressed effectively.
This years report includes a number of sub-categories of regulatory risk that the Directors now consider to be key.
Cautionary statement The business review and certain other sections of this document contain forward-looking statements which are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 39 Business Review Key Group risk factors continued Illicit trade Principal causes Sudden and disproportionate excise Competition from illicit trade increases and widening excise differentials Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and between markets.
locally manufactured products on which applicable taxes are evaded, continues to represent a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry.
Unintended consequences of regulation, e. g. plain packaging, display bans and The majority of such illicit products are sold at the bottom end of the market and in ingredients restrictions.
contravention of applicable regulatory requirements.
Extra compliance costs imposed on legitimate industry giving competitive Increasing excise rates can encourage more consumers to switch to illegal cheaper advantages to illicit manufacturers.
tobacco products and provide greater rewards for smugglers.
The risk is exacerbated where current economic conditions have resulted in high unemployment and or Economic downturn.
Lack of law enforcement and weak border controls.
Global volume of illicit trade is currently estimated to be up to 12% of consumption.
In the next 10 years, we believe that the problem is likely to increase, driven by the increased regulatory and compliance burden for legitimate manufacturers and fuelled by further significant excise increases.
Time frame: Long term Principal causes Excise and tax Fiscal pressures for higher government revenues.
Excise shocks from tax rate increases or structure changes Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise and sales taxes in most countries Increases advocated within context in which the Group operates.
In many of these countries, taxes are generally of national health policies.
increasing, but the rate of increase varies between countries and between different Insufficient capacity to engage with types of tobacco products.
A number of significant excise increases have taken place over the past two years, for example in Egypt, Greece, Japan, Mexico, Romania, Turkey and Brazil.
To date, the Group has been able to balance these increases with its geographic spread, and continues developing effective measures to address the risk.
Time frame: Long term Non-filing or late filing of tax returns or Onerous disputed taxes, interest and penalties incorrect filings.
The Group may face significant financial penalties, including the payment of interest, if it fails to meet its obligations to file tax returns and pay applicable taxes or in the Non-payment or late payments of taxes.
event of an unfavourable ruling by a tax authority in a disputed area.
Unfavourable ruling by tax authorities in disputed areas and aggressive auditing and or pursuit of tax claims.
Time frame: Short term 40 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Potential impact Mitigation activities Erosion of brand equity.
Dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams operating at global, regional, area and key market levels and internal crossReduced ability to take price increases.
Investment in trade marketing and distribution is undermined.
Active engagement with key external stakeholders.
Cross-industry and multi-sector cooperation on a wide range Lower volumes and reduced profits.
Global AIT strategy development supported by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem.
AIT Intelligence Unit including a dedicated analytical laboratory cooperates with law enforcement agencies in pursuit of priority targets and capacity building.
Strong internal business conduct and customer approval policies.
Strategic impact: Growth organic revenue growth Risk owner: Legal Director Potential impact Mitigation activities Consumers reject the Groups legitimate tax-paid products Requirement for Group companies to have in place formal for products from illicit sources.
pricing and excise strategies including contingency plans.
Pricing and excise committees at regional, area and individual market levels.
Reduced sales volume or alteration of sales mix.
Engagement with local tax and customs authorities, where appropriate.
Annual management review of brand portfolio, brand health and equity.
Strategic impact: Growth organic revenue growth Risk owner: Finance Director Significant fines and potential legal penalties.
Disruption and loss of focus on the business due to diversion Internal tax function provides dedicated advice and guidance, of management time.
and external advice sought where needed.
Impact on profit and dividend.
Engagement with tax authorities at Group, regional and individual market level.
Strategic impact: Productivity capital effectiveness Risk owner: Finance Director British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 41 Business Review Key Group risk factors continued Financial Principal causes FX rate exposures arise from exchange rate Translational foreign exchange rate exposures movements against sterling, the Groups The Group faces translational foreign exchange FX rate exposures for reporting currency.
earnings cash flows from its global business.
Time frame: Short term End markets with economies that are closely Access to end market cash resources regulated by the state, with substantial Liquidity access to cash and sources of finance is essential to maintaining the government intervention in foreign Group as a going concern and for sustainably funding local operations.
Inability exchange markets and limitation on to access all the Groups cash resources will impact the Groups capital structure, the convertibility of local currency.
cost of capital, debt and equity quality and shareholder returns.
Insufficient hard currency available to local operating companies to pay for imported goods, dividend remittances, royalties and fees.
Time frame: Short term Principal causes Marketplace Regional and or global conflicts.
Geopolitical tensions Geopolitical tensions, including international sanctions, social unrest, terrorism Terrorism and political violence.
and organised crime have the potential to disrupt the Groups business in Criminal activity leading to attacks on our multiple markets.
people, supply chain or other assets.
Economic policy changes, including nationalisation of assets and withdrawal from international trade agreements.
Time frame: Short term Failure to assess the risk and implement Risk of injury, illness or death in the workplace appropriate control measures.
The Group is committed to operating responsibly by maintaining the necessary controls that safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the people who work for the Failure to monitor, assess and implement the Group and alongside it, as well as minimising the impact on the natural environment requirements of regulations that apply to and the local communities in which the Group conducts business activities.
The risk Group sites and operations resulting in of injury, death or ill-health to employees and those who work with the business is a non-compliance with applicable Environment, fundamental concern of the Group, and can have a significant affect on its operations.
Health and Safety EHS standards.
Insufficient information, instruction and training in health and safety.
Time frame: Short term 42 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Potential impact Mitigation activities Fluctuations in translational FX rates of key currencies against While translational FX exposure is not hedged, its impact is sterling introduce volatility in reported results.
identified in results presentations and financial disclosures: earnings are restated at constant rates for comparability.
Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to mitigate volatility where possible.
Strategic impact: Productivity capital effectiveness Risk owner: Finance Director Economic losses as a result of devaluation of assets On-going monitoring of trapped cash, with established including cash valued or held in local currency.
maximum exposure limits in affected end markets.
Inability to mitigate accounting or financial exposures.
Controls in place to ensure full compliance in the repatriation of funds from countries subject to sanctions regimes.
Loss of commercial opportunities to manufacture and sell tobacco products.
Projects designed to tackle currency conversion issues in specific markets and reduce foreign currency requirements.
Strategic impact: Productivity capital effectiveness Risk owner: Finance Director Potential impact Mitigation activities Potential loss of life, loss of assets and disruption to normal Globally integrated sourcing strategy and contingency business processes.
Increased costs due to more complex supply chain Security risk modelling, including external risk assessments arrangements and or the cost of building new facilities and the monitoring of geopolitical and economic policy or maintaining inefficient facilities.
Reduced volumes and impact on profits.
Insurance cover and business continuity planning, including scenario planning and testing and risk awareness training.
Reputational impact of inability to protect staff and assets from serious harm.
Security controls for field force, direct store sales, supply chain, with an emphasis on the protection of Group employees.
Strategic impact: Growth organic revenue growth Risk owner: Legal Director Serious injuries, ill-health, disability or loss of life suffered Risk control systems in place to ensure equipment and by employees and the people who work with the Group.
infrastructure are provided and maintained.
Exposure to civil and criminal liability and the risk of Launch of a refreshed EHS strategy, so that employees prosecution from enforcement bodies, and the cost at all levels receive appropriate EHS training, information of associated fines and or penalties.
Interruption of Group operations if issues are not Analysis of incidents undertaken regionally and globally to immediately addressed.
identify increasing incident trends or high potential risks that require coordinated action to address.
Cost of remediation work, such as replacing or upgrading plant and equipment, rehabilitation and medical costs.
Dedicated global team to support management of EHS risks.
High staff turnover or difficulty recruiting employees if Key issues and incidents monitored regionally and reported perceived to have a poor EHS record.
Strategic impact: Responsibility Risk owner: Operations Director British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 43 Business Review Key Group risk factors continued Regulation Principal causes Pressure from international organisations, Tobacco controls inhibit growth strategy governments and the private sector to There is a risk that the enactment of regulation that is not evidence-based or pursue tobacco regulation which is not consistently interpreted and applied, with industry input, will impact on the evidence-based.
Groups ability to achieve its strategic growth initiatives and increase business costs and complexity.
Adoption of differing regulatory regimes in different countries groups of countries and or lack of consensus on interpretation application.
Exclusion of the industry from participating in engagement with regulators and policy makers.
Time frame: Long term Product regulation aimed at reducing Product-based regulation impacts costs and consumer demand the ability to differentiate cigarettes Regulation could drive commoditisation and a reduced ability to meet consumers through severe restrictions on ingredients product expectations.
Product-specific regulations and the requirement to measure and design.
and disclose tobacco product contents impact our cost base and ability to deliver a viable business model.
Regulation on the content and design of tobacco products which increases complexity and cost.
Time frame: Long term Adoption of the WHOs Framework Loss of ability to directly communicate with consumer Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC Strict and restrictive regulation on advertising, promotion and packaging may guidelines on packaging and labelling, reduce the Groups ability to communicate with adult smokers and influence advertising and promotion.
consumer preferences, resulting in increased commoditisation of the category.
Adoption of more stringent national regulations, such as point-of-sale display bans and plain packaging.
Time frame: Long term 44 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Potential impact Mitigation activities Adverse impact on ability to compete within the legitimate Engagement aligned across the Group to drive a balanced tobacco industry, and also with increased illicit trade.
global policy framework for tobacco control via a number of projects and workshops and further development of the Shocks to share price on enactment of regulation.
Groups Regulatory Futures team in 2012.
Prioritisation of key regulatory issues such as retail display bans, ingredients bans and pack space appropriation.
Stakeholder mapping and prioritisation, developing robust advocacy materials, building third-party alliances and a programme of targeted regulatory engagement.
Strategic impact: Growth organic revenue growth Risk owner: CORA Director Reduced consumer acceptability of new product A leaf research programme established in order to address specifications, leading to loss of volume and contributing consumer differentiation, regulatory compliance and to an increase in illicit trade.
Loss of volume due to regulation in individual markets A Ready for Regulation workstream ensuring that the impacting on established portfolio.
business is ready for the effects of regulation in ingredients and the associated impact on consumers, and the development Increased cost and complexity of meeting product of efficient process and infrastructure to manage the potential specific regulations.
impact of regulatory testing and disclosure.
Loss of reputation, penalties and closure of production Effective and globally integrated processes for sales and as a result of non-compliance for inadvertent breach.
operations planning processes, product specification and testing and new product initiatives.
Strategic impact: Growth organic revenue growth Risk owner: Operations Director Generic or plain packaging leads to loss of brand equity.
Development of comprehensive plans to support markets to prepare for the implications of an increasingly strict regulatory Reduced ability to compete and make new market entries.
environment and to address key regulatory issues.
Reduced brand equity and pricing power will result in Development of innovative solutions to evolve brand portfolio, downtrading and impact on profits.
product and design and product differentiation within the context of regulatory developments and consistent with Group policy and local law.
Programme of engagement with stakeholders at global, regional and individual market levels to address key regulatory issues, including plain packaging and product display initiatives, and identify potential unintended consequences, such as a contribution to increased illicit trade.
Strategic impact: Growth organic revenue growth Risk owner: Marketing Director and Responsibility balanced regulation British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 45
