Intermediate Capital Group plc 32 Business review: Principal risks and uncertainties  , theCIO ICGBoard,   : .
 interest,  asasponsormember,  ofinvestments,  oftheinvestment geography, size, natureof .
   includingtheCFO, FinancialController, andGroup    , reportingany PolicysetbytheBoard.
Oneofthese , , appointment,   totheBoard:reviewingaccounts:theoversight geography, size, .
AnnualReport&Accounts2012 Ourbusiness 02 33 Business review Fundsandportfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83    ,  therefore,   .
 The Group may be unable to raise future  investmentfunds from third parties.
, thelevel , advisory Creditrisk  The performance of the Groups funds and investment reduced.
Furthermore,  portfolio is affected by a number of factors.
The Group  may experience poor investment performance both generally,  in absolute terms and relative to the performance of riskappetite, , portfolios managed by competitors and relative to , poorrelativeor other assetclasses due to the failure of strategies  implemented in managing the portfolio assets.
TheGrouphasbuilta , interest  rates, exchangerates, liquidityinmarkets, credit .
spreads, marginrequirements, theavailabilityand    Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that ICG will conditions.
 beunable to meet its financial obligations as they  falldue because assets held cannot be realised.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 34 Business review: Principal risks and uncertainties continued      .
 Foreignexchangerisk  The Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange .
rates which could adversely affect the Groups returns and financial condition.
Mitigation: Interestraterisk  The Group and some of the Groups portfolio  companies are exposed to fluctuations in  interestrates which could adversely affect the thesamecurrency.
Inaddition, manyofthe Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 02 35 Business review Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 Concentration risk Mitigation: The Group attempts to reward its Risk as a result of undue geographical, industry, investment professionals and other key employees orsector concentration with regard investments in line with market practice.
In 2009 the Groups made or from reliance on a small number of banks Remuneration Committee commissioned to provide balance sheet funding  to review the The Group invests only in certain geographies, compensation structure of ICG and to advise industries, and sectors.
If investment in any one uponappropriate benchmarking against which geography, industry or sector becomes unduly remuneration could be set.
Following this review, concentrated the Group could suffer increased new remunerations schemes were approved by impairment to its investment performance or shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
These schemes increased financial loss as a consequence of arealigned with the Groups strategy and in line adverse market, economic, or environmental withthe appropriate benchmark and comply with conditions impacting a particular geography, the UK Financial Services Authority FSA industry, or sector.
In addition, the Group sources remuneration code.
asignificant proportion of its balance sheet funding Regulatory risk from a small number of banks.
The Group could Changes to the regulatory frameworks under suffer impairment to its ability to make investments whichthe Group operates or a breach of applicable or financial loss in the event of failure of one or more regulations could damage the Groups reputation of the relationship banks.
and affect the Groups compliance costs, returns Mitigation: The Group has in place an and financial condition Investment Policy and robust investment process The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions designed to maintain appropriate diversification of and its business, particularly the fund management the investments made.
part of the business, is subject to numerous In addition, the Group increasing seeks to regulatory regimes, including the United Kingdom, increase the proportion of its balance sheet funding the United States, Hong Kong, Ireland and from non bank sources such as private placements Luxembourg.
The FSA is the Groups primary and the issuance of bonds.
The FSA and other such regulatory Treasury Policy and procedures are designed to authorities have broad regulatory powers dealing diversify bank-sourced balance sheet funding in with all aspects of financial services, including the terms of quantum and maturity.
authority to grant, and in specific circumstances tovary or cancel, permissions and to regulate Operational risk marketing and sales practices, advertising and Loss of staff themaintenance of adequate financial resources.
If the Group cannot retain and motivate its senior If the Group were to breach any such laws investment professionals and other key employees, orregulations it would be exposed to the risk of the Groups business could be adversely affected.
investigations, fines, temporary or permanent The Groups continued success is highly prohibition from engaging in certain activities, dependent upon the efforts of the Groups suspensions of personnel or revocation of their investment professionals and other key employees.
licences and suspension or termination of the The Groups future success and growth depends regulatory permissions to operate.
toa substantial degree on the Groups ability to Mitigation: The Group has a governance retain and motivate key employees, the market structure in place supported by a risk framework forwhom is very competitive.
The Group may be that allows for the identification, control, and unable to retain such key employees or to continue mitigation of material risks faced by the Group.
Theadequacy of controls in place is periodically The Groups investment professionals possess assessed.
This includes a tailored risk-based substantial experience and expertise in investing and monitoring programme designed to specifically are responsible for locating, executing and monitoring address regulatory and reputational exposure.
The loss of even a small number of the Groups investment professionals could jeopardise the Groups ability to source, execute and manage investments as well as affect recoveries on troubled assets, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
