DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Principal risks and unc Principal risks and uncer ertainties tainties continued The Group risk register is reported formally to the Audit The Group has a formal risk management framework embedded Committee twice a year and focused risk reporting on selected within the business to support the identification and effective themes occurs on a quarterly basis.
Additional information on the management of risk across the Group.
Groups internal control and risk management processes is set The divisions within the Group are each responsible for out in the Corporate Governance Report see page 52. managing and reporting risk in accordance with the Groups risk This section describes the current principal risks and management policy and standards that have been approved uncertainties facing the Group.
In addition to summarising the by the Audit Committee.
The risks are then consolidated into a material risks and uncertainties, the table below gives examples Group risk register which provides an overview of the Group risk of how we mitigate those risks.
Market and competition: The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and faces The Group continues to make significant investments in innovation to competition from a broad range of organisations.
Technological maintain its market position.
developments also have the ability to create new forms of quickly The Groups product development strategic aim is to be at the forefront evolving competition.
The current year has seen the launch of A failure to develop the Groups product proposition in line with Sky Go, a significant expansion of the Groups WiFi footprint and, most changing market dynamics and expectations could erode the Groups recently, the announcement of the launch of NOW TV.
Please see the Review of our Business section for further details of Great content is central to Skys product proposition and increased these products.
competition could impact the Groups ability to acquire content that its The Group regularly reviews its pricing and packaging structures to customers want on commercially attractive terms.
ensure that its product proposition is appropriately placed within the Economic conditions have been challenging in recent years and the market.
A significant economic decline could impact The Group works closely with its marketing partners to ensure that the on the Groups ability to continue to attract and retain customers.
value of its offering is understood and communicated effectively to its customers.
The Group makes significant investment in the origination of UK content as well as acquisition from across the world.
The Group also works to develop and maintain the brand value associated with its individual channels.
Regulatory breach and change: The Group is subject to regulation primarily under UK, Irish and The Group manages these risks through active engagement in the European Union legislation.
regulatory processes that affect the Groups business.
The regimes which apply to the Groups business include, but are not The Group actively seeks to identify and meet our regulatory limited to: obligations and to respond to emerging requirements.
This includes, for example: Gambling Alderney Gambling Commission regulation: Broadcasting compliance controls, processes and contacts Broadcasting the Group is subject to Ofcoms licensing are in place in Entertainment, Movies, Sports and News services.
regime under the Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996 and the Interaction with Ofcom is co-ordinated between Compliance, Communications Act 2003.
Regulatory and Legal: These obligations include the requirement to comply with the Platform services processes are in place to monitor third party relevant codes and directions issued by Ofcom including, for broadcaster access to the digital satellite platform: and example, the Broadcasting Code, the Code on the Scheduling of Television Advertising and the Cross Promotions Code.
Telecommunications compliance controls, processes and contacts are in place overseen by the Customer Compliance Committee Please see page 19 of the Business Review for further details of our to monitor compliance and performance against the General UK broadcasting licences: Conditions of Entitlement.
Platform services as an EPG provider the Group is subject to a The Group has also, more generally, appropriate oversight and reporting Continuation Notice under the Communications Act 2003 which supported by training to provide assurance that it is compliant with requires the provision of EPG services to other broadcasters on fair, regulatory requirements.
reasonable and non-discriminatory terms: and Telecommunications the Group is subject to the General Conditions of Entitlement adopted under the Communications Act 2003 which impose detailed requirements on providers of communications networks and services.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 28 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Description of risk Mitigation 2.
Regulatory breach and change continued The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including, but not limited to, competition antitrust, consumer protection, data protection and taxation.
The Group is currently, and may be in the future, subject to proceedings, and or investigation and enquiries, from regulatory authorities.
The Groups ability to operate or compete effectively could be adversely affected by the outcome of investigations or by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations, changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, policies and regulations, or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or licences.
Customer service: The Groups business is based on a subscription model and its future The Group strives consistently to exceed its customer expectations, to success relies on building long-term relationships with its customers.
put its customers first, to understand what they want and to be responsive to what they say.
A failure to meet its customers expectations with regards to service could negatively impact the Groups brand and competitive position.
The Group makes significant investments in order to deliver continuous development and improvement to its customer service capabilities.
The Group has increased and is continuing to, increase the number of contact centres located across the United Kingdom and has implemented ongoing training and development plans.
The Group benchmarks its customer service experience and strives to be the best in class.
Refer to page 20 for details of our customer service.
Technology and business interruption: The products and services that the Group provides to its customers are The Group makes significant investment in technology infrastructure to reliant on complex technical infrastructure.
ensure that it continues to support the growth of the business.
A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure, The Group is committed to achieve best in class business continuity such as the broadcast platform, customer management systems or the standards and makes significant investments in the resilience and telecommunications networks on which the Group relies could cause a robustness of its business infrastructure.
failure of service to our customers and negatively impact our brand.
The Group also organises regular scenario based group-wide business Details of our infrastructure and technology are set out on pages 16-18 continuity exercises to ensure ongoing readiness of key staff, systems of the Business Review.
Supply chain: The Group relies on a number of third parties and outsourced suppliers The Group continues to invest in its supply chain infrastructure to operating across the globe to support its supply chain.
support its business plan commitments.
A significant failure within the supply chain could adversely affect the A robust supplier selection process is in place with appropriate ongoing Groups ability to deliver products and service to its customers.
management and monitoring of key partners and suppliers.
The Group performs regular audits of key suppliers and of their installations and, wherever possible, has dual supply capability.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 29 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Mitigation 6.
Financial : The effective management of its financial exposures is central to The Groups finance teams are embedded within the business to preserving the Groups profitability.
provide support to management and to ensure accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Reporting on The Group has some exposure to the European financial crisis although financial performance is provided on a monthly basis to the Executive the Groups net euro cash flows are approximately 3% of total group and the Board.
revenues and the Groups practice is to hold less than 10 million on deposit in euros.
The Group continually invests in the improvement of its systems and processes in order to ensure sound financial management and A number of the Groups syndicate banks are headquartered in Europe reporting.
but the Group does not currently anticipate drawing the RCF.
The Group manages treasury risk by minimising risk to capital and providing appropriate protection against foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
Cash investment is made in line with the Groups strict treasury policy which is approved by the Audit Committee and sets limits on deposits based on counterparty credit ratings.
No more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty, with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of AAA-rated liquidity funds.
All debt is swapped at inception to ensure appropriate currency and interest rate protection is in place, and trading currency risk is hedged up to 5 years in advance.
The Group manages its tax risk by ensuring that all the risks are identified and understood at an early stage and that effective compliance and reporting processes are in place.
The Group continues to maintain an open and proactive relationship with the regulating tax authorities which are primarily HM Revenue & Customs.
The Group aims to deal with any taxation issues, wherever possible, as they arise in order to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Security: The Group must protect its customer and corporate data and the The Group takes measures ranging from physical and logical access safety of its people and infrastructure as well as needing to have in controls to encryption, or equivalent technologies, to manage its place fraud prevention and detection measures.
The Group is responsible to third party intellectual property owners for The Group continues to invest in new technological controls and in the security of the content that it distributes on various platforms improving broader business process and works closely with law Skys own and third party platforms.
enforcement agencies and policy makers in order to protect its assets and to comply with its contractual obligations to third parties.
A significant breach of security could impact the Groups ability to operate and deliver against its business objectives.
Projects: The Group invests in, and delivers, significant capital expenditure A common project management methodology is used to enable the projects in order continually to drive the business forward.
Group to manage, monitor and control its major capital expenditure projects and strategic programmes.
This includes standardised The failure to deliver key projects effectively and efficiently could result reporting and monthly reviews by Executive members.
in significantly increased project costs and impede our ability to execute our strategic plans.
Third party partners will, where appropriate, be engaged to provide support and expertise in our large strategic programmes, complex initiatives and for emerging technologies.
Intellectual property protection: The Group in common with other service providers relies on intellectual We implement an ongoing programme to support appropriate property and other proprietary rights, including in respect of protections of our intellectual property and other rights.
programming content, which may not be adequately protected under current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
Please see page 14 of the Business Review.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 30 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Description of risk Mitigation 10.
People: People at Sky are critical to the Groups ability to meet the needs of its Making Sky a great place to work is central to the Groups strategy.
customers and achieve its goals as a business.
The Group champions diversity and develops talent through a number The failure to attract or retain suitable employees across the business of activities, including the Graduate program, Development Studio, an could limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
apprenticeship scheme and a leadership programme.
The Group has well established channels and procedures to recruit and retain its employees and to ensure that an adequate number of suitable employees work within its customer service teams and across all its operations.
Further detail on our people is set out on pages 25-27 of the Business Review.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 31
