International Public Partnerships Limited Risk and Risk Management The Board considers the process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Company and Group on an on-going basis.
It seeks to ensure that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
In light of continued market volatility and economic turmoil, particular attention has been given to the effectiveness of controls to monitor liquidity risk, asset values, counterparty exposure and credit availability.
The Directors set out the material risks relating to the GrRXSV SRUWIROLR DQG LQYHVWLQJ LQ WKH &RPSDQ DV DW May 2012 LQ WKH &RPSDQ V Placing, Open Offer and Offer for Subscription, DYDLODEOH IURP WKH &RPSDQ V website.
This document should be reviewed by shareholders but broad areas of risk include but may not be limited to external risks, strategy and management, operational and investment and financial.
These factors are summarised below: External Risks Broad external factors, including the economic conditions in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, have the capacity to impact the portfolio of assets this includes interest rates, foreign exchange and inflation.
In particular the revenues and expenditure of project entities with respect to infrastructure assets are generally partly or wholly subject to indexation.
An assumption is made that inflation will increase at a longterm rate which may vary depending on country and from time to time.
The effect on investment returns if inflation is above or below the original projections for this long-term rate will impact on the cash that the Group actually generates from its investments.
7KH URXSV DELOLW WR PHHW WDUJHWV DQG LWV REMHFWLYH PD EH adversely or positively affected by inflation and or deflation or by changes to the manner in which inflation is calculated by the governing authority.
The impact of interest rates and foreign exchange is discussed in Financial Risks further below.
Each RI WKH SRUWIROLRV DVVHWV KDV DQ XQGHUO LQJ OHJDO contract with a public sector client and the economic viability of a project may depend implicitly or explicitly on regulatory conditions in a particular jurisdiction.
There is a risk that political decisions and or changes to regulation could be taken to seek to vary the terms of, or terminate, a contract.
In some cases governments have rights of voluntary termination and any FRPSHQVDWLRQ SD DEOH RQ WHUPLQDWLRQ PD ZHOO EH OHVV WKDQ WKH URXSV YDOXDWLRQ IRU WKH DVVHW terminated.
It is also possible that the underlying public sector client may default and there is no certainty that the central government will in all cases assume the liabilities of that local or state government or agency.
In such cases the value of the URXSV investment portfolio and its ability to meet target distributions would be affected.
There is also a risk that a government or public commissioning body may decide to vary the means by which it delivers future projects i. e. not through PFI PPP initiatives or modifications to these structures e. g. PF2.
6KRXOG WKLV EH WKH FDVH WKH URXSV DELOity to source assets in the future could be limited with the reduction in supply.
While unlikely, force majeure events and acts of terrorism may also impact projects and may see returns diminished.
Financing structures through which the Company invests into projects are based on assumptions regarding prevailing taxation law and practice and accounting standards.
Any change in that inveVWPHQWV tax status or in tax legislation or practice including in relation to taxation rates or in accounting standards FRXOG DGYHUVHO DIIHFW WKH SURMHFWV LQYHVWPHQW UHWXUQ and, in turn, have an adverse impact on the financial performance of the Group.
More broadly, changes to regulations that impact the wider financial services sector e. g. the Alternative Investment FunG 0DQDJHUV 'LUHFWLYH PD DOVR KDYH DSSOLFDWLRQ WR WKH &RPSDQ DQG LQ GRLQJ VR PD LQFUHDVH WKH &RPSDQ V FRVWV RI FRPSOLDQFH LQ XQDQWLFLSDWHG ZD V The Company operates in a competitive environment both in sourcing capital and by way of competition from other investors who bid against the Company to acquire new assets.
The Company believes it has a differentiated strategy from its competitors on both counts.
Firstly, it believes that its diversified portfolio of assets, both from a geographic and sector perspective, position it well in the eyes of investors.
It also 33 International Public Partnerships Limited Risks and Risk Management continued provides the potential for further capital growth through its construction assets which investors also view favourably.
RZHYHU WKHVH VWUDWHJLHV PD QRW EH VXFFHVVIXO 7KH &RPSDQ V, QYHVWPHQW Advisor is a leading originator, asset management and fund manager in the infrastructure sector.
The Company relies on the expertise of its Advisor and believes its long-term track record positions it well to acquire new assets for the fund vis--vis other competitors in the market.
Strategic and Management Risks The Company seeks to provide its shareholders with both a long-term government-backed yield and capital growth through investment across both construction and operational phases of infrastructure projects.
The Company aims to provide a medium term return of equal to or greater than 8% on the initial public offer issue price of 100 pence per share.
The Company aims also to provide a robust and attractive growing yield to investors.
However, this strategy necessarily means that investor will only have exposure to a single asset class and there is a risk that the Company may fail to reach its return objectives.
7KH &RPSDQ V 1$9 LV DVVHVVHG LQ JRRG IDLWK E WKH &RPSDQ V 'LUHFWRUV KDOI HDUO ZLWK the assistance of the Investment Advisor.
NAV is derived from projections of future cashflows to the Company and discounted at a rate to arrive at a present value of those future cashflows.
Such cashflows may in practice be higher or lower than projected and or may arise at different times.
As with any valuation the assessment of NAV depends on judgments which may in hindsight be wrong or unjustified and or an error made in modelling.
The discount rate utilised will change from time to time influenced by market and portfolio specific factors.
The ability both to deliver returns and to pay distributions is dependent on a number of economic factors RXWVLGH WKH &RPSDQ V RU WKH, QYHVWPHQW AdvisorV FRQWURO :KLOVW DVVXPSWLRQV that are believed to be reasonable have been factored into business plans, external factors could materially affect the Company and impede its ability to deliver its financial objectives such as assumptions around taxation and exchange controls in the jurisdiction in which the Company invests.
The Company is dependent on the Investment Advisor for advice relating to the day-to-day asset level management of the GroupV DVVHWV.
The Investment Advisor is supported by other service providers to the Group.
Failure by the Investment Advisor or other service provider could have a material impact on the Group.
Equally a loss of key personnel from a service provider may have an impact on the performance of the Group.
The Management Engagement Committee of the Board reviews the performance of each service provider on an annual basis and seeks to ensure that each service provider has adequate systems and controls in place in relation to the services they provide to the Group.
As a listed entity the Company is subject to the same risks as another traded equity security on the London Stock Exchange.
For example, at any point in time its market price may or may not reflect the NAV as calculated by the Company and it may be diluted if a shareholder does not participate in any capital raisings undertaken by the Company.
Operational and Investment Risks There is no guarantee that suitable additional investments will be available in which the Company can invest or that any investment will be successful.
Competition for investment opportunities may result in increased purchase prices.
Whether an investment LV DFTXLUHG YLD WKH, QYHVWPHQW $GYLVRUV SLSHOLQH RU through an on-market competition it is important that the investment is analysed thoroughly in order to determine the appropriate value the Company is prepared to pay.
The Company is exposed to the risk that such work is not carried out properly or that mistakes are made in such work that lead to the Company over-paying for assets.
Whilst most construction and operational risks in projects in which the Company invests are passed down to sub-contractors through a well-established contractual framework, there are occasions when costs and or risks are retained within the project vehicle.
These include ZKHUH WKHUH LV D FDS RQ WKH FRQWUDFWRUV liability or for a number of routine running cost items, likely to include insurance and life cycle costs.
Any 34 International Public Partnerships Limited Risks and Risk Management continued cost implication, not otherwise passed down to subcontractors, will generally be borne by the affected project.
For the current portfolio, the Company has assessed the risk and considers that the lifecycle and insurance provisions are reasonable and adequate but this view may be wrong.
Subcontractors may become insolvent or otherwise fail to perform their obligations, including due to industrial relations issues, even where risks are passed down to them.
Public sector clients may also have the right to terminate the project agreement where a project, shareholder or subcontractor has committed bribery, corruption or other fraudulent act, although the Company has appropriate policies in place to counter such practices.
HQHUDOO WKH URXSV DVVHWV EHQHILW IURP ORDQV DQG DUH VXEMHFW WR VHFXULW LQ IDYRXU RI WKLUG SDUW OHQGHUV While such loans are generally long-term, in certain circumstances such as default, lenders will be entitled to demand early repayment and enforce that security.
However, such loans are structured in the expectation that there would be no recourse to the Group beyond the maximum of the amount invested.
Once acquired, investments need to perform in line with their business plans.
Underperformance can be caused by a number of factors, one of which is the underperformance of a service delivery partner.
The Investment Advisor has tight controls and asset management processes in place to ensure that projects are meeting their intended performance targets.
It regularly reports the progress of projects, on a case-bycase basis to the Board where any issues and mitigation is discussed so that any resulting financial impact can be minimised.
The Company is also conscious of concentration issues associated with having reliance on any one service provider.
It also actively ensures that exposures to specific contractors are minimised by reviewing these providers at the time of acquisition and, from a portfolio perspective, on an ongoing basis.
7KH VLJQLILFDQW PDMRULW RI WKH &RPSDQ V SRUWIROLR KDV DYDLODELOLWbased revenue mechanisms: however, the Northern Diabolo Project has a component of demand risk.
To the extent that passenger numbers do not meet the CoPSDQ V SURMHFWLRQ WKH SURMHFWV SHUIRUPDQFH PD EH QHJDWLYHO LPSDFWHG The Group intends to hold assets long-term and does not have an active strategy to sell assets although this will be considered where desirable.
7KH &RPSDQ V DVVHWV PD EH LOOLTXLG and difficult to sell quickly or at all.
They may not be saleable at NAV and while the Company has a diverse portfolio it is also notable that its largest ten investments currently comprise 64.3% of the portfolio.
Currently the Company believes that there is an active market for the purchase and sale of assets similar to those of the Company however this could change.
The Company depends on contractual arrangements in all aspects of its business.
Such contracts may be open to dispute or reinterpretation and may be affected by controls over their operation which are vested in third parties e. g. banks which may be operated in unpredictable ways, including the right for senior lenders to step in and take responsibility for the asset.
Any such actions may affect the Group in a number of ways including its projected receipt of cash particularly if certain contractual covenants were broken.
In practice such matters cannot be ruled out as possibilities although such contracts will generally have received extensive legal review before being entered into and the assets managed to avoid being placed in a position that would cause the lenders or other related parties concern.
The Group is exposed to the risk of possible conflicts of interest.
These may arise in but not limited to circumstances where the Group acquires investments from entities associated with its Investment Advisor and or circumstances where entities associated with its Investment Advisor receive fees before, at or after acquisition from entities acquired by the Group.
The Group has established conflict management procedures to mitigate this risk as set out in the Investment Policy section above.
Financial Risks 7KH URXSV DFWLYLWLHV H[SRVH LW SULPDULO WR WKH ILQDQFLDO ULVNV RI FKDQJHV LQ LQterest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
The underlying project entities in which the Group is invested have usually either entered a fixed rate loan agreement or variable interest rate loan agreement.
In the latter an interest rate swap agreement will usually be entered into at the commencement of the loan.
Hedging activities are designed to be aligned with the period of the loan, which also mirrors the concession period and are 35 International Public Partnerships Limited Risks and Risk Management continued generally highly effective.
However the risk that swap counterparties may fail and or there may be other reasons why such arrangements may become ineffective cannot be ruled out.
The Company has exposures to foreign currency exchange rate movement, as a result of its investments in assets which are in currencies other than GBP.
Foreign exchange movements may have a future effect RQ ERWK WKH &RPSDQ V FDVKIORZ DQG YDOXDWLRQ $Q FROODSVH RI RU UHVWUXFWXULQJ RI WKH XUR]RQH RU changes affecting the use of the Euro in countries where the Group has investments might have unforeseen negative consequences for the Company.
The Company may from time to time borrow money on a revolving and or short-term basis to assist it with working capital and and or to acquire new investments.
Such borrowing will generally be on a floating rate basis and limited in time.
While the Company fully expects to manage its treasury position effectively the Company is exposed to the risks consequential on this including an inability to repay loans when they fall due.
There can be no certainty that loans taken out by the Company or the Group or any underlying entity can be renewed on the same terms or at all.
Nor can there be certainty that additional equity capital can be raised from shareholders.
In some cases project entities may own assets that are expected to have a residual value to the Company once its contract with the public sector client has expired.
The Company makes assumptions around the value of this asset, typically very conservative, but there can be no assurances that these assumptions are correct.
7KH PDMRULW RI WKH &RPSDQ V DVVHWV DUH FRQFHVVLRQV WKDW ZLOO KDYH QR Yalue after the contact expires.
Unless the group enters in to additional investments to offset this diminution to value the &RPSDQ V 1$9 ZLOO UHGXFH DFFRUGLQJO The Group aims not to be exposed to significant credit risk but this cannot be fully avoided and different assets of the Group have different underlying credit risks.
This applies also to the other contractual counterparties of the Group and its underlying entities.
While the Company and the Group are exposed to the risks and other risks set out above, the policy of the Board and the Investment Advisor is to take an active approach to risk management.
This includes the review at least quarterly of the chief risks that are from time to time believed to affect the Company and the adoption of such mitigation strategies as may be reasonable in response.
