overview business review gove governance rnance financial statements shareholder information Shareholder relations The company is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the chairman, chief executive and finance director, have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views which is discussed with the board.
All directors are offered the opportunity to meet with major shareholders to listen to their views and, in addition to a monthly report prepared by the finance director, receive regular reports prepared by an independent capital markets advisory rm which provides comprehensive information relating to the companys major shareholders.
Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective investors covering the annual and interim results and the company seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor the companys governance policies and procedures.
The Business Review set out on pages 4 to 21 details the financial performance of the company as well as setting out the risks it faces.
All shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the companys AGMs, at which the chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees are available to answer questions.
The company secretary generally deals with questions from individual shareholders.
In addition, the groups website containing published information and press releases can be found at www.
com Internal control The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging that responsibility, the board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These procedures have been in place since the company listed and are regularly reviewed by the board.
Business performance is managed closely and the board and the executive committee have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: s 3TRATEGIC PLAN ACHIEVEMENT THROUGH A REGULAR REVIEW OF PROGRESS TOWARDS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES s &INANCIAL PERFORMANCE WITHIN A COMPREHENSIVE lNANCIAL PLANNING AND ACCOUNTING FRAMEWORK INCLUDING BUDGETING AND FORECASTING financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking appropriate management action: s #APITAL INVESTMENT AND ASSET MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE WITH DETAILED APPRAISAL AUTHORISATION AND POST INVESTMENT REVIEWS AND s 0RINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES WHICH ACCORDS WITH THE 4URNBULL GUIDANCE PUBLISHED BY THE &2# IN CTOBER AND IS supported by reports from the head of internal audit and risk that the significant risks faced by the group are being identied, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The board has delegated the management of risk to the group executive committee, chaired by the chief executive, which reviews the group risk register on a quarterly basis, and reports to the Audit Committee at least twice a year.
Management, with the assistance of the finance function, is responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the board and published where appropriate.
All financial information published by the group is subject to the approval of the board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
Risk management process There is in place an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group, which has operated throughout the year.
The groups risk management framework, which is developed by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk and approved by the group executive committee, is designed to support this process.
The risk framework governs the management and control of both financial and non-financial risks.
The adoption of this policy throughout the group enables a consistent approach to the management of risk at both regional and business unit level.
The internal audit function holds regular workshops across the group to ensure a consistent deployment of the framework and test compliance with the policy.
In addition, during the year, the Audit Committee received: s 2EPORTS FROM THE HEAD OF INTERNAL AUDIT AND RISK ON THE WORK CARRIED OUT UNDER THE ANNUAL INTERNAL AUDIT PLAN s 2ISK MANAGEMENT REPORTS INCLUDING THE STATUS OF ACTIONS TO MITIGATE MAJOR RISKS AND THE QUANTIlCATION OF SELECTED RISKS AND s 2EPORTS FROM THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS Through the monitoring processes set out above, the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the board is not aware of any change to this status up to the date of approval of this report.
