Risk management Risk disclosures provided in line with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 and disclosures on capital required by Group Risk International Accounting Standard 1: Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 are included within this section of the annual report pages 91 to 185 with further disclosures provided Management within the financial statements section pages 278 to 378.
All sections, paragraphs, tables objectives are to: and graphs on which an audit opinion is expressed are marked as audited.
Be the custodian of our risk management Philosophy and approach culture Our comprehensive risk management process involves identifying, quantifying, managing and Ensure the business mitigating the risks associated with each of our businesses.
operates within the board stated appetite Risk awareness, control and compliance are embedded in all our day-to-day activities.
Support the long-term Group Risk Management monitors, manages and reports on our risk to ensure it is within sustainability of the the stated appetite as mandated by the board of directors through the board risk and capital group by providing committee.
Business units are ultimately responsible for risks that arise.
an established, We monitor and control risk exposure through credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal independent framework risk reporting teams.
This approach is core to assuming a tolerable risk and reward profile, for identifying, helping us to pursue controlled growth across our business.
evaluating, monitoring Group Risk Management operates within an integrated geographical and divisional structure, and mitigating risk in line with our management approach, ensuring that the appropriate processes are used to Set, approve and address all risks across the group.
Group Risk Management has specialist divisions in the monitor adherence UK, South Africa, Australia and smaller risk divisions in other regions to promote sound risk management practices.
to risk parameters and limits across the Group Risk Management divisions with international responsibility are locally responsive yet group and ensure they globally aware.
This helps to ensure that all initiatives and businesses operate within our are implemented and defined risk parameters and objectives.
Group Risk Management continually seeks new ways to enhance its techniques.
adhered to consistently Aggregate and monitor our exposure across Overall group summary of the year in review from a risk classes risk perspective Co-ordinate risk management activities This section should be read in conjunction with, and against the background provided in, the overview of the operating environment section on pages 34 to 36. across the organisation, covering all legal entities Investec has continued to maintain a sound balance sheet with low leverage, and a diversified and jurisdictions business model.
This has been supported by the following key operating fundamentals: Give the boards Intimate involvement of executive management ensuring stringent management of risk, reasonable assurance liquidity and capital that the risks we Strong risk and capital management culture embedded into our day-to-day activities are exposed to are and values.
We seek to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and reward in our identified and, to the business, taking cognisance of all stakeholders interests best extent possible, Reward programmes that align directors and employees interests with those of managed and stakeholders, ensuring that these programmes promote effective risk management.
controlled Annual bonuses are closely linked to business performance, determined in the main by Run appropriate realised economic value-added profit performance against pre-determined targets above risk committees, as a risk and capital weighted return.
This model has been consistently applied within the group for in excess of ten years mandated by the board.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 91 Risk management continued Credit and counterparty exposures to a select target market: our risk appetite continues to favour lower risk, income-based lending, with credit risk taken over a Investec has short to medium term.
Exposure is taken against defined target clients displaying sound financial strength and integrity, a core competency and an established track continued to record.
Impairments in South Africa and the UK decreased from 218.1 million to maintain a sound 157.8 million, whilst impairments in Australia increased from 30.2 million to balance sheet 67.9 million, resulting in a total decrease in impairments on loans and advances from 248.3 million to 225.7 million excluding Kensington.
Since 31 March 2011, the default with low leverage.
loan portfolio in Australia declined substantially due to a large portion of the portfolio being sold at the year end.
The level of defaults in South Africa has improved, whilst the UK reported defaults marginally higher than the prior year.
The credit loss charge as a percentage of average gross loans and advances has improved from 1.27% at 31 March 2011 to 1.12%.
The percentage of default loans net of impairments but before taking collateral into account to core loans and advances amounts to 3.31% 31 March 2011: 4.66% Limited exposure to structured credit investments: representing approximately 1.7% of total assets No exposures to peripheral European sovereign debt and limited private client and corporate client exposures to peripheral Europe amounting to approximately 0.6% of total assets.
In addition the group has certain branch-related activities in Ireland, with total assets representing 1.6% of group assets A low leverage gearing ratio of 11.3 times A low level of net assets and liabilities exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting: with level 3 assets amounting to 0.9% of total assets Low equity investment risk exposure: within total investments comprising 3.4% of total assets Modest proprietary market risk within our trading portfolio.
Value at risk and stress testing scenarios remain at prudent levels Potential losses that could arise in our trading book portfolio when stress tested under extreme market conditions i. e. per extreme value theory amount to less than 0.2% of total operating income A high level of readily available, high quality liquid assets: cash and near cash of 10.3 billion, representing 31.9% of our liability base.
We continue to maintain a low reliance on interbank wholesale funding to fund core lending asset growth Continued increase in retail customer deposits and a growing retail franchise with our banks in the UK and Australia meeting Basel III liquidity requirements Healthy capital ratios: we have always held capital well in excess of regulatory requirements and we intend to perpetuate this philosophy.
We have continued to strengthen our capital base during the year Geographical and operational diversity with a high level of recurring income which continues to support sustainability of operating profit.
Geographic summary of the year in review from a risk perspective Detailed information on key developments during the financial year in review is provided in the sections that follow refer to pages 105 to 107, page 147 and pages 162 and 163, with a high level geographic summary of the most salient aspects provided below.
92 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information UK and Europe Credit risk The year in review remained challenging against a difficult economic background.
The rebalancing of our existing portfolio away from property collateralised lending activity has led to an increase in non-property related private client and corporate lending.
Core loans and advances increased marginally by 3.8% to 5.8 billion, primarily as a result of a cautious approach in accepting new loan exposures and a conscious effort to rebalance our existing portfolio mix.
Default loans net of impairments have increased from 4.23% to 4.92% of core loans and advances and the credit loss ratio has improved from 2.22% to 1.22%, largely as a result of a decrease in impairments in our Private Client division.
Traded market risk In the UK there has been continued growth in client activity across the Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange corporate sales desks.
The structured equity desks retail product sales have remained strong and they continue to develop their product range.
On the trading side the Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange trading desks performed strongly over the year, despite the difficult environment.
Balance sheet risk The bank maintained high cash and near cash balances throughout the year but did curtail its inflow of deposits given that it had significant surplus liquidity.
Total customer deposits increased by 7.3% from 1 April 2011 to 9.5 billion at 31 March 2012.
Good growth was experienced in the banks corporate and structured equity deposit book, whilst the Private Client division slowed its intake of deposits.
Average cash and near cash balances amounted to 3.5 billion during the year.
Southern Africa Credit risk Credit quality on core loans and advances has improved during the year in review.
Core loans and advances increased by 6.6% to R128.7 billion.
Default loans net of impairments as a percentage of core loans and advances decreased from 3.97% to 2.73% as some transactions have settled and others have been written off.
The credit loss ratio improved from 0.71% to 0.65%.
The majority of current year and historical defaults were recorded in the private client loan portfolio and largely comprise a relatively small number of clients where finance was provided at reasonably conservative loan to values but with no obvious serviceability except realisation of collateral.
Defaults have occurred when clients have been unable to realise sales to service and repay.
Traded market risk Market conditions have not been conducive to client flow or proprietary trading.
FX markets have been volatile with little or no clear trend as European conditions were the main driver of sentiment.
Local equity markets took direction from the FX market which also influenced South African bond yields.
Traders as the first line of defence have ensured that positions remain manageable in these conditions.
Value at risk has remained on the low side but higher than last year.
Balance sheet risk The bank continued to benefit from a growing retail franchise with total customer deposits increasing by 13.8% from 1 April 2011 to R176.1 billion at 31 March 2012.
Cash and near cash balances increased by 31.3% from 1 April 2011 to R69.1 billion at 31 March 2012, with excess reserves placed in highly liquid treasury bills and government bonds.
Australia Credit risk During the year core loans and advances to customers decreased by 6.1% to A$3 billion largely as a result of the sale of the majority of our non-core property development finance portfolio.
Our lending focus remains predominantly through selective growth within our professional finance business unit which provides finance to targeted members of the medical and accounting professions and selective growth within our other specialised finance portfolios.
The Australian business reported a significant increase in the credit loss ratio from 1.53% to 3.13% as additional impairments were required in light of weakened residential property prices in certain sectors of the market.
The ratio of default loans net of impairments to core loans and advances improved from 9.54% to 1.70% as a result of the sales mentioned above.
Traded market risk Australian trading activity remains modest, with limited client flow activity and difficult foreign exchange and interest rate trading environments.
Balance sheet risk Investec Australia maintained a strong liquidity position well in excess of regulatory and internal policy requirements throughout the year, with average cash and near cash balances amounting to A$1.4 billion.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 93 Risk management continued Salient features A summary of key risk indicators is provided in the table below.
Total assets excluding assurance assets to total equity.
Ratios are reflected at an Investec plc level including Australia.
Certain information is denoted as n a as these statistics are not applicable at a consolidated group level and are best reflected per banking entity or jurisdiction in line with regulatory and other requirements.
94 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information An overview of key risks In our ordinary course of business we face a number of risks that could affect our business operations.
These risks have been highlighted on page 39.
The sections that follow provide information on a number of these risk areas.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently identified by us or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future also negatively impact our business operations.
Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level, as described more fully below.
These committees and forums operate together with group Risk Management and are mandated by the board.
A diagram of our governance and risk framework is provided on page 190.
Committee Function Audit committees See pages 198 and 199 Members: Non-executive directors The Internal Audit, Compliance and Operational Risk Chairman: Sam Abrahams non-executive director departments report to the audit committees.
Frequency: DLC audit committee four times a year Investec Limited and Investec plc audit committees four times each per year Board risk and capital committee BRCC See page 202.
Members: Executive and non-executive directors senior management by invitation Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: Six times a year DLC capital committee See page 203.
Members: Executive and non-executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: At least quarterly Executive risk review forum ERRF See page 203.
Members: Executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: Every Friday except on BRCC dates Global credit committee Considers and approves the granting of credit to counterparties Members: Executive and senior management.
Non-executive in excess of the mandates granted to divisional and other credit directors have a level of oversight which is exercised forums on a global basis within the applicable committee Considers the level of acceptable counterparty and Chairman: Glynn Burger group risk and finance director geographical exposures within the board approved risk Frequency: Twice a week appetite framework Reviews and approves changes to credit policies and methodologies.
Group investment committee Is responsible for reviewing and approving: Members: Executive directors and senior management acquisitions or disposals of strategic investments in which Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO we act as principal and retain an equity interest above Frequency: Weekly predetermined thresholds : and capital expenditure or disposals above pre-determined thresholds.
Group deal forum Considers, approves and mitigates the risks inherent in any Members: Executive and senior management.
Non-executive new product or other non-standard transactions that we are directors have a level of oversight which is exercised considering.
within the applicable committee Chairman: Glynn Burger group risk and finance director Frequency: Weekly Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 95 Risk management continued Committee Function Group market risk forum Reviews and recommends limit adjustments in all existing Members: Global heads of Risk, Market Risk and the trading products and markets across all desks in the group desks: senior management: members of the Market Recommends limits for new products and new markets Risk teams and other members of group Risk Recommends methodology as to how risks are measured.
Management Chairman: Mark Trollip global head of Market Risk Frequency: Weekly Asset and liability committee Recommends and monitors our funding and liquidity policy and Members: Executive, senior management, economist, treasurer, non-trading interest rate risk policy, which translates into a suite business heads and head of Asset and Liability of limits that define our risk appetite Management Directs the implementation of the methodology, techniques, Chairman: Managing director, chief financial officer and head models and risk measures of Risk Reviews the structure of our balance sheet and business Frequency: Monthly or ad hoc if required strategies, taking into account market conditions, including stress tests Maintains liquidity contingency plans.
Group operational risk committee Provides support to BRCC and ERRF in the management of operational risk Members: Head of Operational Risk and embedded risk managers Approval of strategy for the management of operational risk within Investec plc Chairman: Bradley Tapnack Frequency: Half-yearly Challenges and approves the operational risk management framework, practices and guidelines in line with sound practice Approves and recommends operational risk related policies Considers and provides recommendations regarding matters relating to operational risk developments and regulatory requirements Promotes sound operational risk management practices Considers and recommends the enhancement of operational risk management practices and techniques.
Group legal risk forum Considers and manages legal risks throughout the group.
Members: Executive directors, senior management and divisional legal managers Chairman: David Nurek global head of legal risk Frequency: Half-yearly or ad hoc if required In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: BRCC Board risk and capital committee ERRF Executive risk review forum FSA Financial Services Authority SARB South African Reserve Bank APRA Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority 96 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Integrated global risk management structure Group risk and finance director Glynn Burger Head of Risk South Africa Kevin Kerr Head of Risk UK Ian Wohlman Head of risk Australia Peter Binnetter Divisional and geographic roles Global UK and Europe South Africa Australia Credit Risk Glynn Burger Ian Wohlman Justin Cowley Peter Binetter Market Risk Mark Trollip Nick Sheppard Adrienne Betts Adam Rapeport Balance Sheet Risk Management Cyril Daleski Wendy Robinson Cyril Daleski Peter Binetter Operational Risk Bradley Tapnack Bharat Thakker Chandre Griesel Shirley Snoyman Business Continuity Management Robert Cranmer Chris Hubbard Chantal Coetzer Ric Modesto Legal Risk David Nurek Richard Brearley David Nurek Stephen Chipkin Internal Audit Bradley Tapnack Noel Sumner Marle van der Walt Aik Leow Compliance Bradley Tapnack Richard Brearley Kathryn Farndell Elena Berkovic Credit and counterparty risk management Audited Credit and counterparty risk description Credit and counterparty risk is defined as the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from an obligors typically a clients or counterpartys failure to meet the terms of any obligation to us or otherwise to perform as agreed.
Credit and counterparty risk arises when funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether reflected onor off-balance sheet.
Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily from three types of transactions: Lending transactions, giving rise to a direct exposure.
The risk is created that an obligor will be unable or unwilling to repay capital and or interest on advances and loans granted to it.
This category includes bank placements, where we have placed funds with other financial institutions Issuer risk on financial instruments where payments due from the issuer of a financial instrument will not be received Trading transactions, giving rise to settlement and replacement risk collectively counterparty risk Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of a transaction does not take place as expected, with one party ef fecting required settlements as they fall due but not receiving settlements to which they are entitled.
In terms of our definition, settlement debtors receivable in the short term i. e. less than three days are excluded from credit and counterparty risk due to market guaranteed settlement mechanisms Replacement risk is the risk following default by the original counterparty resulting in the contract holder having to enter into a replacement contract with a second counterparty in order to finalise the transaction.
Credit and counterparty risk can manifest as country risk as a result of the geopolitical and transfer risk associated with exposures arising from transactions with borrowers who are resident in a particular foreign country, or dependent on that countrys economy.
Credit and counterparty risk may also arise in other ways and it is the role of the various independent credit committees, assisted by Credit Risk Management, to identify situations falling outside these definitions where credit risk may also be present.
Credit and counterparty risk governance structure Audited To manage, measure and mitigate credit and counterparty risk, independent credit committees exist in each geography where we assume credit risk.
These committees operate under board approved delegated limits, policies and procedures.
There is a high level of executive involvement and non-executive review and oversight in the credit decision making forums.
It is our policy that all centralised credit committees have a majority of voting members who are independent of the originating business unit.
All decisions to enter into a transaction are based on unanimous consent.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 97 Risk management continued In addition to the group credit committee, the following processes assist in managing, measuring and monitoring credit and counterparty risk: Day-to-day arrears management and regular arrears reporting ensure that individual positions and any potential trends are dealt with in a timely manner Watchlist committee, which reviews the management of distressed loans, potential problem loans and exposures in arrears that require additional attention and supervision Corporate watch forum, which reviews and manages exposures that may potentially become distressed as a result of changes in the economic environment or adverse share price movements, or that are vulnerable to volatile exchange rate or interest rate movements Arrears, default and recoveries forum which specifically reviews and manages distressed loans and potentially distressed loans for private clients.
Whilst we do not have a separate country risk committee, the local and global credit committees will consider, analyse, and assess the appropriate limits to be recorded when required, to assume exposure to foreign jurisdictions.
The local group credit committee has the authority to approve country limits within mandate.
The global credit committee is responsible for approving country limits not within the mandate of local group credit committees.
Credit and counterparty risk appetite There is a preference for primary exposure in the groups three main operating geographies i. e. South Africa, UK and Australia.
The group will accept exposures where we have a branch banking business.
The group will also tolerate exposures to other countries Sub-Saharan where it has core capabilities.
Credit and counterparty risk is always assessed with reference to the aggregate exposure to a single counterparty or group of related parties to manage concentration risk.
Our assessment of our clients includes consideration of their character and integrity, core competencies, track record and financial strength.
A strong emphasis is placed on income and cash flow streams generated by the clients, third party income or cash flow streams derived from lease or rental agreements in support of property related transactions.
In this manner, we seek comfort in mitigating our risk by thoroughly assessing the ability of our borrowers to meet their payment obligations.
Furthermore we have very little appetite for unsecured debt and ensure that good quality collateral is provided in support of obligations refer to page 130 for further information.
Target clients include high net worth individuals, certain professionally qualified individuals, high income earning individuals, corporates, state owned enterprises and banks.
Corporates must have scale, relevance, experienced management, able board members and strong earnings cash flow.
Interbank lending is largely reserved for those banks and institutions in the groups core geographies of activity which are systemic and highly rated.
Direct exposures to cyclical industries and start-up ventures tend to be avoided.
We typically originate loans with the intent of holding these assets to maturity, and thereby developing a hands on and longstanding relationship with our clients.
In certain instances we have elected to sell certain assets down and or securitised them refer to pages 134 to 136 for further information.
Sustainability considerations Credit risk committees engage in quantitative and qualitative risk assessments as part of the responsible lending approach to doing business.
Sustainability aspects form the cornerstone of the evaluation conducted by the credit committees.
In addition to the traditional financial review, evaluations encompass a review of a clients business model, governance, environmental practices and the social impact of the business.
Pricing is motivated by the relevant business unit on a transaction by transaction basis, with consideration given to the manner of origination of the asset and the forward strategy for the asset, capital usage and liquidity.
Pricing recommendations are discussed and agreed at the appropriate credit committee to ensure that the reward is appropriate to the risk and that pricing is not compromised in the pursuit of volume or relationship.
As a consequence of market behaviour the pricing for similar risk may differ from time to time.
Group Risk Management strives to maintain independence and objectivity in risk assessment and to give proactive input to lending transactions on a sustainable basis.
For example, with respect to mining transactions, group Risk Management not only routinely requires environmental impact assessments or rehabilitation plans, but also relies on support from leading specialist mining consultants to ensure the highest level of international compliance.
We focus on ensuring ongoing compliance with standards as they evolve.
We acknowledge that waste management and recycling transactions i. e. green investment are increasing and require a specialised understanding of the risk factors, due to both their technical nature and the lack of a single, recognised standard.
This does present a new challenge to group Risk Management, as a sophisticated understanding of the more complex technical aspects of environmental compliance is necessary.
We do support key provisions of the Equator principles but we are not a signatory.
Further information is provided on pages 83 to 87.
98 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Audited Management and measurement of credit and counterparty risk Fundamental principles employed in the management of credit and counterparty risk are: There is a preference for A clear definition of our target market primary exposure A quantitative and qualitative assessment of the creditworthiness of our counterparties in the groups Analysis of all related risks, including concentration risk concentration risk considerations three main include asset class, industry, counterparty and geographical concentration geographies i. e. Prudential limits South Africa, UK Regular monitoring and review of existing and potential exposures once facilities have and Australia.
been approved A high level of executive involvement in decision making with non-executive review and oversight.
Regular reporting of credit and counterparty risk exposures within our operating units is made to management, the executives and the board at the BRCC.
The board regularly reviews and approves the appetite for credit and counterparty risk, which is documented in risk appetite statements and policy documents and implemented by our group Credit division.
Despite strict adherence to the above principles increased default risk may arise from unforeseen circumstances particularly in times of extreme market volatility and weak economic conditions.
Investec completes scenario tests on its loan portfolio with regard to the capital held.
These tests stress the existing portfolio to allow the bank to identify underlying risks and manage them accordingly.
These stresses include but are not limited to residential and commercial property prices, foreign exchange rates, default rates, impairments and capital usage.
The credit risk stress tests also play an integral part in the banks capital planning process.
A large proportion of the portfolio is not rated by external rating agencies.
As a result we mainly place reliance upon internal considerations of counterparties and borrowers, and use ratings prepared externally where available as support.
Within the credit approval process all available internal and external ratings are included in the assessment of the client quality.
The internal rating models used are specific to each portfolio.
The internal ratings are used as an input into the credit decision and as a means of assessing the risk of rated portfolios.
Ongoing development of internal rating models has yielded good results in project finance, private bank property-related transactions, corporate, bank and financial institutions areas of operation.
We remain focused on developing our models in the light of our niche risk profile and against extreme downturn events.
Fitch, Standard and Poors, Moodys and DBRS have been approved as eligible external credit assessment institutions ECAIs for the purposes of determining external credit ratings with the following elections: In relation to sovereigns and securitisations, Fitch, Moodys, Standard & Poors and DBRS have been selected by Investec as eligible ECAIs In relation to banks, corporates and debt securities, Fitch, Moodys and Standard & Poors are recognised as eligible ECAIs If two assessments are available, the more conservative will apply Where there are three or more credit ratings with different risk weightings, the credit ratings corresponding to the two lowest ratings should be referred to and the higher of those two ratings should be applied.
Investec Bank Limited conducts its mapping of credit exposures in accordance with the mapping procedures specified by the Registrar.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 99 Risk management continued Credit and counterparty risk in the UK and Europe The UK and European group comprises businesses in the UK, including a branch in Ireland and The Specialised banking businesses in the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises mainly through Finance, Project our Private Client and Corporate Client activities, although some credit and counterparty risk Finance and does arise in other businesses.
Resource Finance Private Client activities businesses lend Our Private Client activities take place in the UK mainly London, including branches in Ireland and banking businesses in the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises from a money on a number of activities which we undertake which are explained in detail below.
structured basis The structured property finance area provides senior debt and other funding for property to corporates, transactions covering the residential and commercial markets.
Client quality and expertise are government and at the core of our credit philosophy.
institutions, with Our exposure to the property market is well diversified with strong bias towards prime locations for residential exposure and focus on tenant quality for commercial assets.
Debt service cover full recourse to ratios are a key consideration in the lending process supported by reasonable loan to security either a suitable value ratios.
All facilities are reviewed at least annually and property values are monitored by asset or to the reference to reports from our appointed panel valuation firms.
balance sheet Growth and Acquisition Finance provides debt funding to proven management teams, running UK based mid-market companies.
Transaction sizes typically range between 5 million and of the entity to 20 million.
Credit risk is assessed against debt service coverage from the robustness of the which the funds cash generation for the business both historically and against forecasts.
Asset Based Lending provides working capital and business loans secured on collateral or assets used in the conduct of the business, for example, accounts receivable, inventory, plant and machinery.
We also provide advances against cash flow or other assets such as committed income or rights.
Specialised Lending provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their controlled entities to facilitate value creation opportunities.
The team employs specialist bankers focusing on the private equity, media music, sports, legal services and family office sectors.
Facilities are structured around each clients particular requirements.
Risk is mitigated through sector expertise, client quality and certainty of serviceability.
An analysis of the private client loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on pages 128 and 129.
Corporate Client activities The bulk of Corporate Client activities are conducted from London and Ireland.
As part of the daily management of liquidity, the treasury function places funds with central banks and other commercial banks and financial institutions.
These market counterparties are highly rated, investment grade entities with credit risk of a systemic nature in the UK, Europe and US.
A rigorous internal assessment process, supported by rating agency information, is undertaken to analyse each counterparty to which we may be potentially exposed to ascertain their credit worthiness.
Our trading portfolio consists of positions in interest rates, foreign exchange and equities.
Credit risk arises from normal trading risks.
We maintain a thorough risk process that reviews and monitors all potential credit risks inherent in customer trading facilities.
These positions are marked to market daily with margin calls where necessary to mitigate credit exposure in the event of counterparty default.
Within the banking business, credit risk can arise from structured finance, project and resource financing, asset finance, corporate lending and structured credit and securitisation activities.
There are approved limits specifying the maximum exposure to each individual counterparty, to minimise concentration risk.
Facilities are secured on the assets of the underlying corporate.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying cash flow and security.
While most of the activities of our Corporate Client division are concentrated in the UK and to a lesser extent Europe, any exposure to counterparties outside this jurisdiction is mitigated through a stringent country risk approval and monitoring process, and covered by political risk insurance where deemed appropriate.
100 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information A summary of the nature of the lending and or credit risk assumed within some of the key areas within the banking business is provided below: Structured and Asset Finance: loans leases against fixed assets linked to the success of the business they are employed in.
These transactions amortise from anticipated cash flows Project Finance: provides advisory, debt and equity arranging services to renewable energy projects and public private projects, e. g. roads, hospitals, prisons.
Loans are secured on the projects themselves with a high degree of due diligence around both the delivery risks and the cash flow to repay any facilities Resource Finance: resource mining transactions considered in the credit decision process must have provable reserves and strong cash flows Credit investment and trading: arranging and execution of Investec securitisations, and credit investments and trading in securitisations both as principal and as broker Residential Mortgage Origination and securitisation: origination of target client assets Corporate loans: originate and participate in senior debt facilities covering medium to large corporates.
The average counterparty exposure is approximately 7.5 million per entity, giving portfolio diversity.
An analysis of the corporate client loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on pages 128 and 129.
Investment Banking activities Counterparty risk in this area is modest.
All share underwriting is fully sub-underwritten with well known market counterparties.
The business also trades approved shares on an approved basis and makes markets in shares where we are appointed corporate broker under pre-agreed market risk limits.
Settlement trades are all on a delivery versus payment basis, through major stock exchanges.
Credit risk only occurs in the event of counterparty failure and would be linked to any fair value losses on the underlying security.
Asset Management Investec Asset Management Limited regularly transacts with well known rated market counterparties.
These are all on an exchange traded delivery versus payment basis and exposure is to a move in the value of the underlying security in the value of the unlikely event a counterparty fails.
Direct cash placements follow our policy, as outlined above, of only being exposed to systemic banks of investment grade quality in the UK, Europe and US.
Credit and counterparty risk in South Africa Credit and counterparty risk is assumed mainly through our Private Client, Corporate Banking and Asset Finance ReichmansCapital divisions.
Private Client Lending products are primarily offered through our structured property finance, private client lending, specialised lending and growth and acquisition finance activities, and are targeted to meet the requirements of our clients.
Central to our credit philosophy is the concept of sustainability of income through the cycle.
As such, the client base has been defined to include high net worth clients who through diversification of income streams will reduce income volatility and individuals with a profession which has historically supported a high and sustainable income stream irrespective of the stage in the economic cycle.
A large portion of the lending portfolio is supported by residential and commercial property collateral.
Income producing assets are generally substantially let with good quality anchor tenants.
Collateral exposure to the South African property market is regionally diversified primarily Pretoria, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth.
Serviceability of a loan advanced against property and not only asset value and quality of the client are primary considerations in the credit assessment process.
Corporate Client Investec Corporate Treasury provides money market, interest rate and foreign exchange products to corporates and institutions.
We are an active market maker in the spot and forward US Dollar Rand interbank markets.
Trading transactions giving rise to issuer, settlement and replacement risk were among the primary areas of potential credit and counterparty risk in the year under review.
Simulation-based methodologies have been implemented for the majority of the Corporate Treasury product offering, the benefit of which is the identification of increases in exposures as a result of changes in volatility and prices and the identification of roll-off risk.
As part of the daily management of liquidity, the treasury function places funds with the central bank the SARB and other commercial banks and financial institutions.
These market counterparties are highly rated, investment grade entities with credit risk of a systemic nature.
The specialised finance, project finance and resource finance businesses lend money on a structured basis to corporates, government and institutions, with full recourse either to a suitable asset or to the balance sheet of the entity to which the funds are advanced.
Typical assets that Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 101 Risk management continued are funded include property, plant and equipment, infrastructure and movable assets.
Credit limits are set for each counterparty and monitored to ensure risk is mitigated.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying security, cash flow and, in the case of trading products, the nature of the underlying security traded.
The resource finance business may be exposed to countries presenting complex legal and political risks.
Political risk insurance is taken where necessary to ensure political risks are well managed.
There is also strong adherence to prudent country risk limits to manage concentration risk on an ongoing basis.
Most of the resource finance business activities form part of the corporate asset class as defined by Basel ll, since recourse in the event of default will be to the total assets of the corporate and not merely the resource project being financed.
Due to the relative illiquidity of the credit derivative market in South Africa, counterparty exposures and mitigation benefits obtained as a result of credit derivative transactions are negligible.
ReichmansCapital ReichmansCapital is an asset and trade finance business which operates on a premium margin business model for small and medium sized corporates.
The business is a relatively small portion of the overall group credit exposure.
Credit and counterparty risk in Mauritius Investec Bank Mauritius Limited offers various banking services and its primary business activities are corporate lending, property finance, resource finance and structured finance.
The target market includes both corporate and private clients.
Prudential limits have been set and are monitored daily.
Investec Bank Mauritius Limited is a subsidiary of Investec Bank Limited.
It has a decentralised credit approval and management process in compliance with our group credit philosophy, policy and procedures.
Credit and counterparty risk in Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited operates within a clearly defined framework for managing credit risk.
The policies and procedures for credit risk management are consistent with those of the group and comply with the prudential standards issued by the APRA.
Credit and counterparty risk is assumed through transacting with target private and corporate clients, certain professionally qualified individuals and high income individuals, project and resource finance, and the placement of surplus liquidity with highly rated domestic banks and financial institutions.
Details with respect to the nature of the credit and counterparty risk assumed is similar to that of the activity conducted within our UK operations.
An analysis of the private client and corporate client loan portfolios and asset quality information is provided on pages 128 and 129.
Asset quality analysis credit risk classification and provisioning policy Audited It is a policy requirement overseen by Central Credit Management that each operating division makes provision for specific impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments.
This is in accordance with established group guidelines and in conjunction with the watchlist committee process.
In the financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The information provided below reflects the guidelines and definitions that have been applied in assessing the asset quality of credit exposures see page 115.
The impairment definitions and guidelines are consistent with IFRS.
IFRS differs from the requirements laid out in the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards of the Basel II framework which has been adopted by the banking regulators in all of the locales in which we have operations.
IFRS focuses on the concept of incurred loss, whereas Basel ll centres on the concept of expected loss.
The reconciling differences are primarily due to the fact that IFRS impairments only reflect a decrease in the value of assets with credit risk where a loss trigger event has occurred, and only that portion of the expected loss which has actually been incurred at the reporting date.
A loss trigger event is an event which exhibits a high correlation to the crystallisation of loss.
102 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Regulatory and Arrears, default and economic capital recoveries classification classification IFRS impairment treatment category Description Performing assets For assets which form part of a Past due An account is considered to be past homogeneous portfolio, a portfolio due when it is greater than zero and impairment is required which less than or equal to 60 days past due recognises asset impairments that the contractual credit agreed payment have not been individually identified.
Management however is not concerned and there is confidence in The portfolio impairment takes into the counterpartys ability to repay the account past events and does not past due obligations.
cover impairments to exposures Special mention The counterparty is placed in special arising out of uncertain future events.
mention when that counterparty By definition, this impairment is only is considered to be experiencing calculated for credit exposures which difficulties that may threaten the are managed on a portfolio basis and counterpartys ability to fulfil their credit only for assets where a loss trigger obligation to the group i. e. watchlist event has occurred.
committee is concerned for the following reasons: Covenant breaches: There is a slowdown in the counterpartys business activity: An adverse trend in operations that signals a potential weakness in the financial strength of the counterparty: or Any restructured credit exposures until appropriate watchlist committee decides otherwise.
Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur if adverse conditions persist.
Supplementary reporting categories: Credit exposures overdue 1 60 days Credit exposures overdue 61 90 days.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 103 Risk management continued Regulatory and Arrears, default and economic capital recoveries classification classification IFRS impairment treatment category Description Assets in default Specific impairments are evaluated on Sub-standard The counterparty is placed in suba case-by-case basis where objective standard when the credit exposure evidence of impairment has arisen.
In reflects an underlying, well defined determining specific impairments, the weakness that may lead to probable following factors are considered: loss if not corrected.
Capability of the client to generate The risk that such credit exposure sufficient cash flow to service may become an impaired asset is debt obligations and the ongoing probable: viability of the clients business The bank is relying, to a large Likely dividend or amount extent, on available collateral: or recoverable on liquidation or The primary sources of repayment bankruptcy are insufficient to service the Nature and extent of claims by remaining contractual principal other creditors and interest amounts, and the Amount and timing of expected bank has to rely on secondary cash flows sources for repayment.
These Realisable value of security held secondary sources may include or other credit mitigants collateral, the sale of a fixed asset, Ability of the client to make refinancing and further capital.
payments in the foreign currency, Credit exposures overdue for more for foreign currency denominated than 90 days will at a minimum be accounts.
included in sub-standard or a lower quality category.
Doubtful The counterparty is placed in doubtful when the credit exposure is considered to be impaired but not yet considered a final loss due to some pending factors such as a merger, new financing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
Loss A counterparty is placed in the loss category when the credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted: or Assets in this category are expected to be written off in the short term since the likelihood of future economic benefits resulting from such assets is remote.
104 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Credit risk mitigation Audited Acceptable collateral generally exhibits characteristics that allow for it to be easily identified Collateral is and appropriately valued.
assessed with The bulk of collateral taken by private clients is commercial and residential real estate.
reference to the Commercial real estate generally takes the form of good quality property often underpinned sustainability of by strong third party leases.
Residential property is also generally of a high quality and based in desirable locations.
Residential and commercial property valuations will continue to form value and the part of our increased focus on collateral assessment.
likelihood of It is our policy to obtain a formal valuation of every commercial property offered as collateral realisation.
for a lending facility before advancing funds.
Revaluations of commercial properties held as collateral at the discretion of the relevant credit committee.
Residential properties are valued by desktop valuation and or approved valuers, if applicable.
Other common forms of collateral in the retail asset class are motor vehicles, cash and share portfolios.
The majority of credit mitigation techniques linked to trading activity is in the form of netting primarily International Swap Dealers Association, Global Master Securities Lending Agreement and International Securities Master Agreement and margining agreements primarily through Credit Support Agreements.
Where netting agreements have been signed and the enforceability is supported by external legal opinion within the legal jurisdiction of the agreement, the exposures for all product categories covered by such agreements should be stated net of any liabilities owing by Investec to the agreement counterparty for those product categories.
Set-off has been applied between assets subject to credit risk and related liabilities in the financial statements where: A legally enforceable right to set-off exists There is the intention and ability to settle the asset and liability on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In addition to the above accounting set-off criteria, banking regulators impose the following additional criteria: Debit and credit balances relate to the same obligor counterparty Debit and credit balances are denominated in the same currency and have identical maturities Exposures subject to set-off are risk-managed on a net basis Market practice considerations.
For this reason there will be instances where credit and counterparty exposures are displayed on a net basis in these financial statements but reported on a gross basis to regulators.
An analysis of collateral is provided on page 130. Credit and counterparty risk year in review UK and Europe In the year under review ongoing concerns over the vulnerability of various peripheral Euro area sovereign markets, especially Portugal, Italy, Greece and Spain, also began to weigh more heavily on markets, triggering a sharp tightening in credit conditions.
Near the turn of the calendar year, conditions were eased by the European Central Bank ECB providing in excess of 1 trillion of three year liquidity via two long-term refinancing operations LTROs : an agreement on the second Greek bailout: and signs that the Euro area and global authorities were taking steps to bolster the resources which could be made available to embattled Eurozone markets.
Against this difficult economic background a rebalancing in the lending portfolios has been in process during the year under review.
Our lending activity in structured property lending has been significantly reduced and we have proactively managed property collateralised exposures down.
The decrease in exposure to property collateralised assets has mainly been Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 105 Risk management continued achieved through a reduction in higher risk planning and development lending.
Opportunistic new transactions secured by property will continue to be pursued only if the merits of the The Group Risk transaction are justified and the appropriate returns for assuming the additional exposure are achieved.
Lending supported by proven cash flow rather than asset value propositions division has continues to be favoured.
Most property collateralised assets are located in the UK.
Our continued to exposure to Irish domiciled assets has been under intensive management for the past three work closely with years.
Non-property collateralised lending as a percentage of gross credit exposures has increased.
The trend in reducing exposure to property collateralised assets is expected to the business continue for some time as our asset mix rebalances.
units to manage Core loans and advances remained relatively static year-on-year with only a marginal the impact of the increase of 1.6% for total private client lending activity.
The rebalancing of our existing increased risks in portfolio away from property collateralised related activity has led to an increase in nonproperty private client and corporate lending.
the market and Default loans net of impairments have increased from 4.23% to 4.92% of core loans and resultant pressure advances.
The credit loss ratio has improved from 2.22% to 1.30%.
Gross default loans on our lending before collateral and impairments in the private client activities have risen from 9.41% at portfolios.
The UK and Channel Islands businesses have shown a deterioration in gross default loans from 3.9% to 5.3% for the year.
The Irish branch property collateralised portfolio continues to remain under intense active management but has shown no sign of further deterioration during the year.
There was an increase in the Kensington impairment charge as a result of adopting new guidelines published by UK FSA during the past year relating to provisioning methodology in respect of borrowers that have benefited from forbearance.
The overall Kensington arrears position remained stable and the legacy book continues to decrease in size.
The Irish mortgage book however, continued to deteriorate, due to the economic and political environment in the country impacting borrowers ability and willingness to pay, respectively.
Defaults in corporate loans were higher than in 2011.
Activity levels in the first half of 2012 were strong, but dropped off in the second half of the financial year when the Eurozone crisis took hold.
The group Risk division has continued to work closely with the business units to manage the impact of the increased risks in the market and resultant pressure on our lending portfolios.
The key focus of the group Risk division has been on proactive book management together with the business units, repositioning some of our portfolios asset mixes as well as taking advantage of opportunities that have arisen as a result of dislocated markets.
Southern Africa The financial year in review has seen a combination of trends and factors impacting on the credit quality and assessment of credit and counterparty risk: The existing debt burden on consumers in a low interest rate environment Low to moderate levels of discretionary spending and household demand for credit with increased spending emerging from the fourth quarter of 2011 Continuation of inflationary pressures as a result of oil and utility price increases Increased investment by corporates from the fourth quarter of 2011 Low to moderate infrastructure spending by government The European sovereign debt crisis and contagion fears Depreciation in the value of the Rand against the US Dollar, Pound and Euro, most notably in the third quarter of 2011 Less market volatility, although the European debt crisis contributed to market volatility towards the end of the third quarter of 2011.
Strong growth in the first quarter of 2012 with the JSE All Share index reflecting overall growth for the year in review of 4.2% The property market remains under pressure with low growth across the residential property market and moderate growth across the commercial property market.
106 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information The high net worth and or stable income streams of our target market clients provided a level of protection from decreases in property values over the last couple of years.
Many clients built an effective equity buffer over a period of time, resulting in lower average loan to value ratios which have reduced potential losses.
Lower levels of volatility relative to previous financial years have resulted in lower profitability levels for certain of the trading divisions.
For both interest rate and foreign exchange rate products simulation methodologies are employed which enable us to identify more accurately the level of potential exposures to counterparties for these trading activities.
The methodologies recognise volume of trading, volatility of products traded, deal tenor and credit mitigants in deriving granular counterparty exposure profiles and, in so doing, allow for roll-off risk assessments.
Loans and advances secured by share portfolios including BEE transactions are monitored frequently.
Most of these counterparties remain within credit approved loan to value or cover ratios and are performing on current debt obligations.
For assets written during the current year there has been adherence to lower loan to value lending and competitive pressure on margins.
Credit quality on core loans and advances improved.
The credit loss ratio has improved from 0.71% to 0.65%.
The majority of the current financial year and historical defaults were recorded in the private client loan portfolio and largely comprise a relatively small number of clients where development finance was provided at reasonable loan to values but with no serviceability except realisation of collateral.
A lot of emphasis has been placed on the strengthening of recoveries and administrative areas and increased involvement from executive and senior management to deal with potential problematic loans and working on the best outcome solution for our clients and ourselves.
Managing certain of the larger defaulted property developments in order to maximise recoveries will take longer than originally anticipated.
The corporate client loan portfolio reported one material default for the financial year in review and the settlement of a historical default exposure.
Australia As part of year end reporting at 31 March 2011, Investec Australia indicated its objective to divest and exit non-core businesses unlikely to provide growth opportunities, and or cease to fall within the framework of tightened credit risk.
This resulted in closing our property development finance business, including the sale of our default loan book.
To reflect this in a meaningful way, results have been allocated between ongoing core businesses and the property development finance business whose loan assets were substantially sold or recovered.
Credit risk-regulatory considerations Effective January 2012, the South African Banks Act was amended by the regulator in order to bring it in line with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions BCBS Enhancements to the Basel II framework document, commonly referred to as Basel 2.5.
Investecs credit capital holding was compliant prior to the implementation of the revisions and there was thus no material capital impact, while changes to disclosure were implemented successfully as of January 2012.
In addition, in order to enhance risk coverage, and in an attempt to capture the risk of the large mark to market losses incurred by many large financial institutions during the financial crisis where credit spreads on debt instruments widened substantially even without deterioration in the credit quality and ratings of the counterparties, the BCBS has introduced an additional capital charge on the over the counter OTC derivative portfolio of the bank.
This charge is referred to as Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA.
Further significant ratios required for disclosure in the future will include the Leverage Ratio a measure of qualifying capital to both onand off-balance sheet exposure pre the application of any credit conversion factors.
Together with the other major banks in South Africa, Investec has been participating in a global Quantitative Impact Study QIS in order to gauge the impact of these and other regulatory changes being proposed by the BCBS in the Basel III framework.
The SARB have released their first draft of proposed amendments to the Banks Act in line with the proposed Basel III regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems, in many cases, the amendments will follow a phased approach with implementation beginning 2013.
In Europe, the CRD IV package is being drafted, and the FSA is expected to publish revised rules to CRD IV later in 2012.
In line with Investecs prudent risk management and governance frameworks, we will continue to engage with the regulator and seek to adopt market best practice in accordance with these regulatory amendments.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 107 Risk management continued Credit and counterparty risk information Pages 97 to 107 describe where and how credit risk is assumed in our operations.
The tables that follow provide an analysis of the credit and counterparty exposures.
An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures Credit and counterparty exposures increased by 1.5% to 40.8 billion largely as a result of an increase in cash and near cash balances partially offset by a decrease in off-balance sheet exposure.
Cash and near cash balances increased by 10.0% to 10.3 billion and are largely reflected in the following line items in the table below: cash and balances at central banks, loans and advances to banks, non-sovereign and non-bank cash placements, sovereign debt securities.
Restated as discussed on page 370.
Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
108 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures by geography UK and Europe Southern Africa Australia Total Audited 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March million 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Cash and balances at central banks 1656 987 758 627 180 155 2594 1769 Loans and advances to banks 986 809 1671 564 68 96 2725 1469 Non-sovereign and non-bank cash placements 642 536 642 536 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 522 1400 454 1068 976 2468 Sovereign debt securities 1415 625 2420 2682 232 225 4067 3532 Bank debt securities 294 805 2257 1671 530 530 3081 3006 Other debt securities 87 104 196 83 82 80 365 267 Derivative financial instruments 519 464 837 1009 134 81 1490 1554 Securities arising from trading activities 243 422 119 14 7 369 436 Loans and advances to customers gross 5940 5732 10095 10651 1427 1619 17462 18002 Own originated loans and advances to customers securitised gross 501 583 535 484 1036 1067 Other loans and advances gross 994 812 333 395 54 1327 1261 Warehoused assets Kensington gross 1053 619 1053 619 Other securitised assets gross 67 107 67 107 Other assets 2 184 41 137 43 321 Property and equipment 20 66 20 66 Total on-balance sheet exposures 13798 13136 20324 20020 3195 3324 37317 36480 Guarantees 24 12 455 501 32 40 511 553 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 522 718 2235 2215 166 165 2923 3098 Total off-balance sheet exposures 546 730 2690 2716 198 205 3434 3651 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 14344 13866 23014 22736 3393 3529 40751 40131 Restated as discussed on page 370.
An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures by geography 35.2% 34.5% 8.3% 8.8% 56.7% 56.5% UK and Europe 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 Southern Africa Australia 40 751 million 40 131 million Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 109 Risk management continued A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures The table below indicates in which class of asset on the face of the consolidated balance sheet our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures are reflected.
Not all assets included in the balance sheet bear credit and counterparty risk.
Assets that Total credit we deem to and have no Note Total Audited counterparty legal credit referbalance 000 exposure exposure ence sheet As at 31 March 2012 Cash and balances at central banks 2593813 38 2593851 Loans and advances to banks 2725347 2725347 Non-sovereign and non-bank cash placements 642480 642480 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 975992 975992 Sovereign debt securities 4067093 4067093 Bank debt securities 3081061 3081061 Other debt securities 364976 12856 377832 Derivative financial instruments 1489835 423815 1913650 Securities arising from trading activities 369408 270738 640146 Investment portfolio 890702 1 890702 Loans and advances to customers 17461667 269459 2 17192208 Own originated loans and advances to customers securitised 1035913 1739 2 1034174 Other loans and advances 1327232 70245 1397477 Warehoused assets Kensington 1052805 378907 3 1431712 Other securitised assets 67350 3034072 4 3101422 Interest in associated undertakings 27506 27506 Deferred taxation assets 150381 150381 Other assets 43087 1759034 5 1802121 Property and equipment 19761 151924 171685 Investment properties 407295 407295 Goodwill 468320 468320 Intangible assets 192099 192099 Insurance assets 6265846 6265846 Total on-balance sheet exposures 37317820 14232580 51550400 Reflects future receivables in respect of assets subject to operating lease contracts.
Largely relates to exposures that are classified as equity risk in the banking book.
Further information is provided on pages 131 to 133.
Largely relates to impairments and the impact of hedge accounting.
Whilst the group manages all risks including credit risk from a day-to-day operational perspective, these assets are within s pecial purpose vehicles that ring-fence the assets to specific credit providers and limit security to the assets in the vehicle.
The table above reflects the net credit exposure in the vehicles that the group has reflected in the total credit and counterparty exposure with the maximum credit exposure referenced to credit providers external to the group in the column headed assets that we deem to have no legal credit exposure.
Largely relates to net investments in Kensington securitised vehicles to which Investec has no direct exposure as discussed on pages 137 to 140.
Also includes liquidity facilities provided to third party corporate securitisation vehicles in South Africa.
These facilities have remained undrawn and are reflected as a contingent liability, i. e. off-balance sheet exposure of the bank.
Other assets include settlement debtors where we deem to have no credit risk exposure as they are settled on a deliver y against payment basis.
110 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Assets that Total credit we deem to and have no Note Total Audited counterparty legal credit referbalance 000 exposure exposure ence sheet As at 31 March 2011 Cash and balances at central banks 1769042 36 1769078 Loans and advances to banks 1468705 1468705 Non-sovereign and non-bank cash placements 535983 535983 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 2467771 4 2467775 Sovereign debt securities 3532100 3532100 Bank debt securities 3006129 3006129 Other debt securities 267132 267132 Derivative financial instruments 1553613 245591 1799204 Securities arising from trading activities 435 728 307 759 743487 Investment portfolio 858610 1 858610 Loans and advances to customers 18002199 309843 2 17692356 Own originated loans and advances to customers securitised 1067409 1627 2 1065782 Other loans and advances 1261452 195284 2 1066168 Warehoused assets Kensington 619246 992935 3 1612181 Other securitised assets 107435 3751076 4 3858511 Interest in associated undertakings 23481 23481 Deferred taxation assets 114838 114838 Other assets 321 080 1 124 986 5 1446066 Property and equipment 64713 215088 279801 Investment properties 379527 379527 Goodwill 456608 456608 Intangible assets 136452 136452 Insurance assets 6361296 6361296 Total on-balance sheet exposures 36479737 14461533 50941270 Restated as discussed on page 370.
Reflects future receivables in respect of assets subject to operating lease contracts.
Whilst the group manages all risks including credit risk from a day-to-day operational perspective, these assets are within special purpose vehicles that ring-fence the assets to specific credit providers and limits security to the assets in the vehicle.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 111 Risk management continued Detailed analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures by industry as at 31 March 2012 Electricity, HNW and gas and Public and Finance Retailers ManufacCommercial Mining Leisure, Transport professional water utility non-business Business and and turing and real Residential and entertainment and com- 000 individuals Agriculture services services services insurance wholesalers commerce Construction estate mortgages resources and tourism munication Total Cash and balances at central banks 2413753 180060 2593813 Loans and advances to banks 367 2724980 2725347 Non-sovereign and non-bank cash placements 8170 29683 103241 183162 208865 14155 66569 28635 642480 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 2996 3476 969520 975992 Sovereign debt securities 3890011 177082 4067093 Bank debt securities 3081061 3081061 Other debt securities 9010 205347 33788 6831 75691 8354 12313 13642 364976 Derivative financial instruments 1817 124 20600 11017 1282143 16645 22800 17118 93102 8446 4565 11458 1489835 Securities arising from trading activities 256974 108 268 2086 1880 200 369408 Loans and advances to customers gross 12 049 126 50046 474685 217031 431421 799 931 432205 849478 85927 782779 310040 229299 749699 17461667 Own originated loans and advances to customers securitised gross 1035913 1035913 Other loans and advances gross 474282 852950 1327232 Warehoused assets Kensington gross 1052805 1052805 Other securitised assets gross 34800 32550 67350 Other assets 43087 43087 Property and equipment 398 442 1101 5390 1035 2569 4375 553 1633 330 1935 19761 Total on-balance sheet exposures 13 089 852 58738 495727 6791356 477878 10 184 837 670455 1087398 124584 985 755 1 905 755 393609 246507 805 369 37317820 Guarantees 334484 5879 48 1622 8578 4169 15364 17819 110866 8575 3571 510975 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 2123797 45302 17683 45214 137770 29448 82823 32762 16861 165337 29620 195360 2921977 Total off-balance sheet exposures 2458281 51181 17731 46836 146348 33617 98187 50581 16861 1 905 755 276203 38195 198931 3432952 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 15 548 133 58738 546908 6809087 524714 10 331 185 704072 1185585 175165 1 002 616 1 905 755 669812 284702 1 004 300 40750772 Summary analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures by industry Private client loans account for 70.6% of total net core loans and advances, as represented by the industry classification HNW and professional individuals.
A description of the type of lending we undertake within the Private Client division is provided on pages 100 and 101, and a more detailed analysis of the private client loan portfolio is provided on pages 128 and 129.
The remainder of core loans and advances largely reside within our Corporate Client division and are evenly spread across industry sectors.
A description of the type of lending we undertake within the Corporate Client division is provided on pages 100 to 102, and a more detailed analysis of the corporate client loan portfolio is provided on pages 128 and 129.
Other credit and counterparty exposures are largely reflective of cash and near cash balances held with institutions and central banks, thus the large balance reflected in the public and non-business services and finance and insurance sectors.
These exposures also include offbalance sheet items such as guarantees, committed facilities and contingent liabilities, largely to our HNW and professional individual Private Client division clients.
An overview of developments during the financial year is provided on pages 105 to 107.
Audited 31 March 31 March 000 2012 2011 Gross core loans and advances to customers 18497580 19069608 Total impairments 271198 311470 Portfolio impairments 20159 30844 Specific impairments 251039 280626 Net core loans and advances to customers 18226382 18758138 Average gross core loans and advances to customers 18783594 18583373 Current loans and advances to customers 17231735 17438856 Past due loans and advances to customers 1 60 days 290513 356756 Special mention loans and advances to customers 100561 87541 Default loans and advances to customers 874771 1186455 Gross core loans and advances to customers 18497580 19069608 Current loans and advances to customers 17 231 735 17 438 856 Default loans that are current and not impaired 10632 6746 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 523369 803813 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 731844 820193 Gross core loans and advances to customers 18 497 580 19 069 608 Total income statement charge for core loans and advances 225687 248343 Gross default loans and advances to customers 874771 1186455 Specific impairments 251039 280626 Portfolio impairments 20159 30844 Defaults net of impairments 603573 874985 Collateral and other credit enhancements 827572 1210061 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero 17 Ratios: Total impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 1.47% 1.63% Total impairments as a % of gross default loans 31.00% 26.25% Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 4.73% 6.22% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances to customers 3.31% 4.66% Net defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers Credit loss ratio i. e. income statement impairment charge as a % of average gross loans and advances 1.12% 1.27% Exposures cannot be set-off against one another as reflected on pages 120 and 121.
These numbers have declined over the period for the reason set out on page 107.
Exposures cannot be set-off against one another.
A further analysis of our private client and corporate client loan portfolios, broken down by type of loan, is provided on pages 128 and 129.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 121 Risk management continued An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers Audited 31 March 31 March 000 2012 2011 Default loans that are current 461086 59170 1 60 days 347693 414546 61 90 days 52386 66944 91 180 days 61864 431589 181 365 days 62197 230810 365 days 280619 427693 Past due and default core loans and advances to customers actual capital exposure 1265845 1630752 1 60 days 57159 33871 61 90 days 26 273 21405 91 180 days 22847 68058 181 365 days 28106 154279 365 days 227802 381518 Past due and default core loans and advances to customers actual amount in arrears 362187 659131 A further age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers Current Audited watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total As at 31 March 2012 Watchlist loans neither past due nor impaired Total capital exposure 10632 10632 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired Total capital exposure 341236 50361 42529 24499 64744 523369 Amount in arrears 54816 25504 15673 18320 51928 166241 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 450454 6457 2025 19335 37698 215875 731844 Amount in arrears 2343 769 7174 9786 175874 195946 As at 31 March 2011 Watchlist loans neither past due nor impaired Total capital exposure 6746 6746 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired Total capital exposure 372173 59603 113228 121612 137197 803813 Amount in arrears 30042 17585 33378 85937 100607 267549 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 52424 42373 7341 318361 109198 290496 820193 Amount in arrears 3829 3820 34680 68342 280911 391582 122 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers as at 31 March 2012 based on total capital exposure Current Audited watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 290513 290513 Special mention 35488 42178 7164 5795 9936 100561 Special mention 1 90 days 35488 9495 7164 5795 9936 67878 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 32683 32683 Default 461086 21692 10208 54700 56402 270683 874771 Sub-standard 187427 831 7835 28728 33585 24703 283109 Doubtful 129879 20861 2373 25972 22817 245980 447882 Loss 143780 143780 Total 461086 347693 52386 61864 62197 280619 1265845 An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers as at 31 March 2012 based on actual amount in arrears Current Audited watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 13992 13992 Special mention 33430 17666 4402 4103 7899 67500 Special mention 1 90 days 33430 6614 4402 4103 7899 56448 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 11052 11052 Default 9737 8607 18445 24003 219903 280695 Sub-standard 458 7835 9 040 14718 20627 52678 Doubtful 9279 772 9405 9285 199276 228017 Loss Total 57159 26273 22847 28106 227802 362187 Largely relates to solvent deceased estates and bonds under registration at the deeds office.
Due to the lengthy external process with respect to these exposures, which are out of the control of Investec, these exposures have been classified as special mention and will remain there until settled or their credit quality deteriorates.
Largely relates to debit card balances.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 129 Risk management continued Collateral A summary of total collateral Collateral held against Other Core credit and loans and counterparty 000 advances exposures Total As at 31 March 2012 Eligible financial collateral 2313351 208012 2521363 Listed shares 2079575 191074 2270649 Cash 233776 16938 250714 Debt securities issued by sovereigns Mortgage bonds 19089 855 1110610 20200 465 Residential mortgages 7731966 1109372 8841338 Residential development 868833 868833 Commercial property development 1 092 290 1238 1093 528 Commercial property investments 9396766 9396766 Other collateral 8 029 594 72545 8 102 139 Unlisted shares 1 261 143 1 261 143 Bonds other than mortgage bonds 537484 537484 Debtors, stock and other corporate assets 3458491 3458491 Guarantees 924641 60163 984804 Other 1847835 12382 1860217 Total collateral 29 432 800 1391167 30 823 967 As at 31 March 2011 Eligible financial collateral 2687083 816454 3503537 Listed shares 2256102 204733 2460835 Cash 422946 479472 902418 Debt securities issued by sovereigns 8035 132249 140284 Mortgage bonds 19459165 137433 19596598 Residential mortgages 7368151 7368151 Residential development 1283378 1283378 Commercial property development 858367 1398 859765 Commercial property investments 9949269 136035 10085304 Other collateral 8382223 98558 8480781 Unlisted shares 1633746 1633746 Bonds other than mortgage bonds 555128 20240 575368 Debtors, stock and other corporate assets 2839077 2839077 Guarantees 1570899 78318 1649217 Other 1783373 1783373 Total collateral 30528471 1052445 31580916 A large percentage of these exposures for example bank placements are to highly rated financial institutions where limited collateral would be required due to the nature of the exposure.
130 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Equity and investment risk in the banking book Equity and investment risk description Equity and investment risk in the banking book arises primarily from the following activities conducted within the group: Principal Investments Private Equity and Direct Investments : Investments are selected based on the track record of management, the attractiveness of the industry and the ability to build value for the existing business by implementing an agreed strategy.
In addition, as a result of our local market knowledge and investment banking expertise, we are well positioned to take direct positions in listed shares where we believe that the market is mispricing the value of the underlying portfolio of assets.
These investment positions are carefully researched with the intent to stimulate corporate activity.
In South Africa, we also continue to pursue opportunities to help create and grow black owned and controlled companies Lending transactions within the Private Client and Corporate Client divisions : The manner in which we structure certain transactions results in equity, warrant and profit shares being held, predominantly within unlisted companies Property activities: We source development, investment and trading opportunities to create value and trade for profit within agreed risk parameters Central Funding: In South Africa the Central Funding division is the custodian of certain equity and property investments, which have largely arisen from corporate acquisitions made, notably in the early 2000s.
Management of equity and investment risk As equity and investment risk arise from a variety of activities conducted by us, the monitoring and measurement thereof varies across transactions and or type of activity.
Nature of equity and investment risk Management of risk Listed equities Investment committee, market risk management and ERRF Investment Banking Principal Finance investments Investment committee, the Investec Bank Limited Direct Investments division investment committee and ERRF Embedded derivatives, profit shares and investments arising from Credit risk management committees and ERRF lending transactions Investment and trading properties Investment committee, Investec Property Group Investment committee in South Africa and ERRF Central Funding investments Investment committee and ERRF Stress testing scenario analyses are performed regularly and reported to ERRF, BRCC and the board.
As a matter of course, concentration risk is avoided and investments are well spread across geographies and industries.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 131 Risk management continued Valuation and accounting methodologies For a description of our valuation principles and methodologies refer to page 287 and pages 320 to 324 for factors taken into consideration in determining fair value.
We have a low level of assets exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting with level 3 assets amounting to 0.9% of total assets refer to page 321 for further information.
The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
It is noted that the ultimate impact on the income statement reflects the groups net attributable earnings from the investment.
Unrealised revaluation gains through profit and loss are included in tier 1 capital.
Revaluations that are posted directly to equity are excluded from capital within Investec Limited and included in tier 2 capital within Investec plc.
132 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Summary of investments held and stress testing analyses The balance sheet value of investments is indicated in the table below.
On-balance On-balance sheet Valuation sheet Valuation value of change value of change Audited investments stress test investments stress test 000 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Country category 2012 2012 2011 2011 Unlisted investments 778894 116834 681730 102260 UK and Europe 280183 42027 116994 17549 South Africa 493607 74041 558184 83728 Australia 5104 766 6552 983 Listed equities 111809 27765 187402 46850 UK and Europe 27843 6961 61337 15334 South Africa 76985 19246 117124 29281 Australia 6981 1745 8941 2235 Investment and trading properties 577008 71258 589244 81693 UK and Europe 58336 11667 30554 6111 South Africa 474979 50852 530810 70006 Australia 43693 8739 27880 5576 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 67432 23602 85432 29902 UK and Europe 35979 12593 32387 11336 South Africa 31453 11009 53045 18566 Australia Total 1535143 239459 1543808 260705 For the purposes of the above analysis, the exposures arising from the consolidation of the Investec Property Fund have been reflected at the level of our economic ownership, being 50.01%.
In order to assess our earnings sensitivity to a movement in the valuation of these investments the following stress testing parameters are applied: Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 20% Investment properties 10% Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 35% Stress testing summary Based on the information as at 31 March 2012, as reflected above we could have a 239 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a severe stress scenario.
This would not cause the group to report a loss but could have a significantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
Capital requirements In terms of Basel II capital requirements, unlisted and listed equities within the banking book are represented under the category of equity risk and investment properties, profit shares and embedded derivatives are considered in the calculation of capital required for credit risk.
Refer to page 180 for further detail.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 133 Risk management continued Securitisation credit investment and trading activities exposures The information below sets out the initiatives we have focused on over the past few years, albeit that some of these business lines have been curtailed given the current economic climate.
UK and Europe In the UK and Europe the group focuses on securitisation of its assets, predominantly residential and commercial mortgages.
We also undertake trading and investment in structured credit investments where we have invested in rated and unrated debt instruments largely within the UK and Europe and to a lesser extent in the US.
We retain residual net exposures amounting to 938 million to the assets originated, warehoused and securitised by Kensington.
Further information is provided on pages 137 to 140.
South Africa In South Africa, our securitisation business was established over ten years ago.
Over this time, we have arranged a number of corporate bond and commercial paper programmes and third party securitisations.
We have also assisted in the development of select securitisation platforms with external third party originating intermediaries.
At present we have provided limited warehouse funding lines to these intermediaries.
Furthermore, we provide a standby liquidity facility to one conduit namely, Grayston Conduit 1 Pty Limited Series 1 and Series 2.
These facilities, which totalled R1.7 billion as at 31 March 2012 31 March 2011: R2.0 billion, has not been drawn on and is thus reflected as off-balance sheet contingent exposures in terms of our credit analysis refer to pages 135 and 136.
The liquidity risk associated with these facilities is included in the stress testing for the group and is managed in accordance with our overall liquidity position.
We have also sought out select opportunities in the credit debt markets and traded and invested in structured credit investments.
These have largely been investments in rated instruments within the UK and Europe.
In addition, we have own originated, securitised assets in our private client business in South Africa.
The primary motivations for the securitisation of assets within our Private Client division are to: Provide an alternative source of funding Provide a source of revenue Act as a mechanism to transfer risk Leverage returns through the retention of equity tranches in low default rate portfolios.
Total assets that have been originated and securitised by the Private Client division amount to R6.1 billion March 2011: R6.3 billion and include auto loans R0.9 billion and residential mortgages R5.2 billion.
These securitisation structures have all been rated by Moodys.
Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited acquired Experien in October 2007 now Investec professional finance.
As is the case in the South African Private Client division assets originated by the business have been securitised.
These amount to A$825 million 31 March 2011: A$750 million.
Accounting policies Audited Refer to pages 284 to 295. Credit analysis In terms of our analysis of our credit and counterparty risk, exposures arising from securitisation credit investment and trading activities reflect only those exposures to which we consider ourselves to be at risk notwithstanding accounting conventions.
In addition, assets that have been securitised by our Private Client division are reflected as part of our core lending exposures and not our securitisation credit investment and trading exposures as we believe this reflects the true nature and intent of these exposures and activities.
134 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Exposure Exposure as at as at 31 March 31 March Nature of exposure 2012 2011 Balance sheet and credit risk Asset quality activity million million classification relevant comments Capital treatment Structured credit Other debt securities and Risk-weighted investments 849 900 other loans and advances.
or supervisory deductions against Rated 723 713 primary and secondary capital.
Unrated 126 176 Other 11 Kensington 12 65 Other securitised assets.
Refer to pages 137 Risk-weighted mortgage assets: We are required to fully to 140 or supervisory Net exposures after consolidate assets acquired deductions against impairments to the from Kensington.
However, primary and securitised book i. e. only those assets to which secondary capital.
those assets have we are at risk are reflected in been securitised this analysis with the balance reflected under no credit exposures.
Kensington 927 535 We are required to fully Refer to pages 137 Risk-weighted mortgage assets: consolidate assets acquired to 140 Net exposures after from Kensington.
However, impairments to the only those assets to which we warehouse book are legally at risk are reflected i. e. those assets that in this analysis with the have been originated balance reflected under no and placed in special credit exposures.
purpose vehicles awaiting securitisation Warehouse lines 857 497 Other loans and advances.
Risk-weighted provided to own depending on rating originated loans of counterparty and advances to customers and investment in third party intermediary originating platforms mortgage and auto loans Analysed as part of We apply Private Client division 1 034 1 067 Own originated loans and assets which have advances to customers the groups overall securitisation rules: securitised.
asset quality on core either risk-weighted been securitised loans and advances or supervisory as reflected on deductions against page 135 primary and secondary capital.
South Africa liquidity 135 188 Off-balance sheet credit Unutilised facility that facilities provided to exposure as these facilities is risk-weighted.
third party corporate have remained undrawn and securitisation vehicles reflect a contingent liability of the bank.
Subsequent to the year end approximately 200 million of these assets were securitised.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 135 Risk management continued Analysis of structured rated and unrated credit investments 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 million Rated Unrated Other Total Rated Unrated Other Total US corporate loans 18 18 20 20 US ABS 1 1 3 3 European ABS 8 5 13 3 7 10 European RMBS 510 90 600 514 147 661 European CMBS 65 5 70 75 5 80 European credit cards 5 5 European corporate loans 67 26 93 17 17 South African RMBS 2 2 25 25 South African CMBS 2 2 Australian RMBS 52 52 66 66 Other credit default swaps 11 11 Total 723 126 849 713 176 11 900 Further analysis of rated structured credit investments as at 31 March 2012 C and million AAA AA A BBB BB B below Total US corporate loans 17 1 18 US ABS 1 1 European ABS 3 5 8 European RMBS 177 139 53 65 22 32 22 510 European CMBS 3 23 21 5 9 4 65 European corporate loans 43 12 12 67 South African RMBS 1 1 2 Australian RMBS 20 23 7 2 52 Total as at 31 March 2012 243 201 82 89 48 32 28 723 Total as at 31 March 2011 263 143 106 72 71 28 30 713 136 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Kensington group plc salient features Warehouse Securitised % As at 31 March 2012 book portfolio Total of total Assets and business activity statistics Mortgage assets under management million 1432 1 938 3370 IFRS adjustments million 77 67 10 Mortgage assets under management million 1509 1871 3380 First charge % of total mortgage assets under management 94.1% 93.6% 93.8% Second charge % of total mortgage assets under management 5.9% 6.4% 6.2% Fixed rate loans % of total mortgage assets under management 0.7% 0.1% 0.3% Number of accounts 13633 21738 35371 Average loan balance first charge 141597 106907 120083 Largest loan balance 1091675 1174323 1174323 Weighted average loan mature margin % 4.1% 4.7% 4.5% Product mix pre-IFRS adjustments million 1509 1871 3380 100.0% Prime 6 6 0.2% Near prime 504 380 884 26.2% Prime buy to let 1 1 Adverse 349 1383 1732 51.2% Adverse buy to let and right to buy 61 108 169 5.0% Start Irish operations 588 588 17.4% Geographic distribution million 1509 1871 3380 100.0% UK North 284 609 893 26.4% UK South West 69 132 201 5.9% UK South East 207 388 595 17.6% Outer London 143 231 374 11.1% Inner London 67 129 196 5.8% Midlands 151 382 533 15.8% Start Irish operations 588 588 17.4% Spread of value of properties % 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 500 000 3.5% 1.1% 1.9% 250 000 500 000 23.5% 9.9% 15.2% 200 000 250 000 16.5% 11.6% 13.5% 150 000 200 000 20.6% 20.0% 20.2% 100 000 150 000 23.2% 30.6% 27.7% 70 000 100 000 11.2% 20.7% 17.1% 50 000 70 000 1.4% 5.0% 3.7% 50 000 0.1% 1.1% 0.7% Asset quality statistics Weighted average current LTV adjusted for house price index movement 105.6% 79.8% 91.3% Bad debt provision is based on house price index assumptions of: UK: calendar year: house price growth of nil going forward, with an additional -20% haircut to the price to reflect forced sale discount.
Ireland: peak to trough decline of 53%, including calendar year: house price decline assumption of -9% for 2012, and house price growth assumption of 1%, 3%, 4%, 4% per annum respectively for the period 2013 2016, and an additional forced sale discount of 5% 6%.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 137 Risk management continued Kensington group plc salient features continued Warehouse Securitised % As at 31 March 2012 book portfolio Total of total LTV spread % of book 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 65% 11.5% 21.8% 17.6% 65% 70% 3.4% 6.3% 5.1% 70% 75% 3.7% 8.5% 6.5% 75% 80% 4.5% 9.4% 7.4% 80% 85% 5.5% 11.0% 8.7% 85% 90% 7.3% 12.0% 10.1% 90% 95% 8.6% 9.1% 8.9% 95% 100% 8.6% 7.1% 7.7% 100% 46.9% 14.8% 28.0% % of accounts 90 days in arrears 33.2% 29.3% 30.8% Number of accounts 90 days in arrears 4515 6368 10883 Total capital lent in arrears million 748 848 1596 100.0% Arrears 0 60 days 73 136 209 13.1% Arrears 61 90 days 56 97 153 9.6% Arrears 90 days 565 571 1136 71.2% Possession 54 44 98 6.1% Debt to income ratio of clients % 20.2% 19.1% 19.6% Investec investment exposure to assets reflected above million 1 053 36 1 089 On balance sheet provision million 127 24 151 Investec net investment exposure to assets reflected above million 926 12 938 138 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Kensington group plc salient features continued Warehouse Securitised % As at 31 March 2011 book portfolio Total of total Assets and business activity statistics Mortgage assets under management million 1613 2605 4218 IFRS adjustments million 34 63 29 Mortgage assets under management million 1647 2542 4189 First charge % of total mortgage assets under management 93.8% 94.6% 94.3% Second charge % of total mortgage assets under management 6.2% 5.4% 5.7% Fixed rate loans % of total mortgage assets under management 0.7% 0.3% Number of accounts 14753 28073 42826 Average loan balance first charge 143689 109232 120542 Largest loan balance 1106793 1211581 1211581 Weighted average loan mature margin 4.1% 4.6% 4.4% Product mix pre-IFRS adjustments million 1647 2542 4189 100.0% Prime 5 5 0.1% Near prime 553 418 971 23.2% Prime buy to let 1 1 Adverse 396 1682 2078 49.7% Adverse buy to let and right to buy 66 124 190 4.5% Start Irish operations 626 318 944 22.5% Geographic distribution million 1647 2542 4189 100.0% UK North 315 711 1026 24.5% UK South West 79 156 235 5.6% UK South East 228 462 690 16.5% Outer London 155 280 435 10.4% Inner London 73 162 235 5.6% Midlands 171 453 624 14.9% Start Irish operations 626 318 944 22.5% Spread of value of properties 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 500 000 3.5% 1.4% 2.2% 250 000 500 000 23.8% 12.5% 16.4% 200 000 250 000 16.0% 12.1% 13.4% 150 000 200 000 20.5% 19.8% 20.0% 100 000 150 000 23.2% 28.4% 26.6% 70 000 100 000 11.4% 19.3% 16.6% 50 000 70 000 1.5% 5.2% 3.9% 50 000 0.1% 1.3% 0.9% Asset quality statistics Weighted average current LTV of active portfolio adjusted for house price deflation 93.7% 80.5% 85.8% Bad debt provision is based on house price index assumptions of: UK: calendar year 2011: house price decline assumption of circa -12.5% for 2011 and flat thereafter, and an additional -10% haircut to the price to reflect forced sale discount.
Ireland: calendar year 2011: house price decline assumption of -4.9%, and house price growth assumption of 1% for 2012 to 2015.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 139 Risk management continued Kensington group plc salient features continued Warehouse Securitised % As at 31 March 2011 book portfolio Total of total LTV spread % of book 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 65% 14.2% 23.6% 20.1% 65% 70% 3.6% 6.1% 5.2% 70% 75% 4.2% 7.4% 6.3% 75% 80% 5.0% 9.1% 7.6% 80% 85% 6.2% 10.6% 8.9% 85% 90% 7.1% 11.3% 9.7% 90% 95% 8.8% 9.5% 9.2% 95% 100% 10.5% 7.4% 8.6% 100% 40.4% 15.0% 24.4% % of accounts 90 days in arrears 30.9% 31.0% 31.0% Number of accounts 90 days in arrears 4566 8694 13260 Total capital lent in arrears million 745 1197 1942 100.0% Arrears 0 60 days 90 171 261 13.4% Arrears 61 90 days 58 110 168 8.7% Arrears 90 days 558 859 1417 73.0% Possession 39 57 96 4.9% Debt to income ratio of clients % 19.5% 19.3% 19.3% Investec investment exposure to assets reflected above million 619 113 732 On balance sheet provision million 84 48 132 Investec net investment exposure to assets reflected above million 535 65 600 140 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Traded market risk management Audited Traded market risk description Traded market risk is a measure of potential change in the value of a portfolio of instruments as a result of changes in the financial environment resulting in changes in underlying market risk factors such as interest rates, equity markets, bond markets, commodity markets, exchange rates and volatilities between now and a future point in time.
The market risk management team identifies, quantifies and manages the effects of these potential changes in accordance with Basel ll and policies determined by the board.
Within our trading activities, we act as principal with clients or the market.
Market risk, therefore, exists where we have taken on principal positions, resulting from proprietary trading, market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money markets.
The focus of these businesses is primarily on supporting client activity.
Our strategic intent is that proprietary trading should be limited and that trading should be conducted largely to facilitate clients in deal execution.
Audited Traded market risk governance structure To manage, measure and mitigate market risk, we have independent market risk management teams in each geography where we assume market risk.
Local limits have been set to keep potential losses within acceptable risk tolerance levels.
A global market risk forum mandated by the various boards of directors manages the market risks in accordance with pre-approved principles and policies.
Risk limits are reviewed and set at the global market risk forum and ratified at the ERRF in accordance with the risk appetite defined by the board.
Limits are reviewed at least annually or in the event of a significant market event e. g. 11 September 2001 or at the discretion of senior management.
Management and measurement of traded market risk Market risk management teams review the market risks on our books.
Detailed risk reports are produced daily for each trading desk.
These reports are distributed to management and the traders on the desk.
Any unauthorised excesses are recorded and require a satisfactory explanation from the desk for the excess.
The production of risk reports allows for the monitoring of every instrument traded against prescribed limits.
New instruments or products are independently validated before trading can commence.
Each traded instrument undergoes various stresses to assess potential losses.
Each trading desk is monitored on an overall basis as an additional control.
Trading limits are generally tiered with the most liquid and least risky instruments being assigned the largest limits.
The market risk teams perform a profit attribution, where our daily traded income is attributed to the various underlying risk factors on a dayto-day basis.
An understanding of the sources of profit and loss is essential to understanding the risks of the business.
Measurement techniques used to quantify market risk arising from our trading activities include sensitivity analysis, value at risk VaR, stressed VaR, expected tail loss ETL and extreme value theory EVT.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to simulate extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
VaR numbers are monitored daily at the 95%, 99% and 100% maximum loss confidence intervals, with limits set at the 95% confidence interval.
ETLs are also monitored daily at the 95% and 99% levels.
Scenario analysis considers the impact of a significant market event on our current trading portfolios.
We consider the impact for the 10 days after the event, not merely the instantaneous shock to the markets.
Included in our scenario analysis are for example the following: October 1987 Black Monday, 11 September 2001 and the December Rand crisis in 2001.
We also consider the impact of extreme yet plausible future economic events on the trading portfolio as well as possible worst case not necessarily plausible scenarios.
Scenario analysis is done once a week and is included in the data presented to ERRF.
All VaR models, while forward-looking, are based on past events and depend on the quality of available market data.
The accuracy of the VaR model as a predictor of potential loss is continuously monitored through back testing.
This involves comparing the hypothetical clean trading revenues arising from the previous days closing positions with the one-day VaR calculated for the previous day on these same positions.
If the revenue is negative and exceeds the one-day VaR, a back testing breach is considered to have occurred.
In South Africa, we have internal model approval and so trading capital is calculated as a function of the 99% 10-day VaR.
Backtesting results and a detailed stress testing pack are submitted to the regulator on a monthly basis.
In the UK, all desks are currently on capital adequacy CAD 1 level for regulatory capital.
This arises from the consolidation offset between various asset classes diversification.
The UK commodities desk was closed and all residual positions were unwound by April 2011.
The graphs below show total daily VaR and profit and loss figures for our trading activities over the reporting period.
The values shown are for the 99% one-day VaR, i. e. 99% of the time, the total trading activities will not lose more than the values depicted below.
Based on these graphs, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR figures.
UK and Europe The average VaR utilisation was lower than that in 2011 and the VaR at year end was close to the low for the year at 0.6 million, mainly as a result of a reduction in risk on the structured equity derivatives desk.
There were four exceptions over the year i. e. where the loss was greater than the 99% one-day VaR.
This is more than the expected two to three exceptions per year at the 99% level.
Most of these exceptions came in the second quarter of the year with the increased volatility experienced during the height of the European Sovereign crisis.
South Africa UK and Europe VaR for 2012 in the South African trading book was slightly higher than for 2011, though still lower than pre-crisis 2007 levels.
Using hypothetical clean profit and loss data for backtesting resulted in four exceptions, which is more than the two to three exceptions that a 99% The average VaR utilisation was lower than that in 2011 and the VaR at year end was close to the low for the year at 0.6 million, mainly as a result of a reduction in risk on the structured equity derivatives desk.
There were four exceptions over the year i. e. where the loss was greater VaR implies.
The exceptions were due to normal trading losses and most were due to trade in the FX market.
Using actual profit and loss resulted in one exception which is lower than expected.
There have been five exceptions i. e. where the loss is greater than the VaR.
This is more than the expected number of exceptions at the 99% level as a result of the unusually high levels of market volatility, specifically in interest rate and foreign exchange markets where the Australian trading activity was most active.
99% 1-day VaR backtesting A$ 250 000 200 000 150 000 100 000 50 000 0 -50 000 -100 000 -150 000 -200 000 -250 000 P L -300 000 99% 1-day VaR ETL UK and South Europe Australia Africa 95% 95% 95% one-day one-day one-day Audited 000 A$000 Rmillion 31 March 2012 Commodities 0.1 Equity derivatives 846 3.5 Foreign exchange 48 2 2.2 Interest rates 367 40 3.9 Consolidated 876 40 5.8 31 March 2011 Commodities 71 10 0.1 Equity derivatives 1339 3.3 Foreign exchange 13 8 1.3 Interest rates 409 30 2.4 Consolidated 1 636 40 5.8 The consolidated ETL for each desk and each entity is lower than the sum of the individual ETLs.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes.
The method used is known as extreme value theory EVT, the reported stress scenario below calculates the 99% EVT which is a 1-in-8 year possible loss event.
These numbers do not assume normality but rather rely on fitting a distribution to the tails of the distribution.
UK and Europe Australia South Africa using using using 99% EVT 99% EVT 99% EVT Audited 000 A$000 Rmillion 31 March 2012 Commodities 0.1 Equity derivatives 2467 16.3 Foreign exchange 119 6 17.2 Interest rates 659 70 24.3 Consolidated 2230 71 20.3 UK and Europe Australia South Africa using using using 99% EVT 99% EVT 99% EVT Audited 000 A$000 Rmillion 31 March 2011 Commodities 266 0.3 Equity derivatives 3782 24.3 Foreign exchange 33 15 5.6 Interest rates 2087 121 10.0 Consolidated 3915 273 13.6 Profit and loss histograms UK and Europe The histogram below illustrates the distribution of revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is skewed to the profit side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised on 139 days out of a total of 252 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2012 was 120 635 2011: 144 616. profit and loss 40 35.0 35 32.0 30 28.0 28.0 25 22.0 21.0 20 17.0 15 11.0 10 8.0 8.0 7.0 7.0 7.0 6.0 5.0 5.0 5 3.0 3.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0 -1.8 -1.8 -1.6 -1.4 -1.2 -1.0 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.0 Pro t loss earned per day million Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 145 Frequency: Days in a year Risk management continued South Africa The histogram below illustrates the distribution of daily revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is skewed to the profit side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised on 181 days out of a total of 247 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2012 was R1.5 million 2011: R1.2 million.
The graph shows that negative trading revenue was realised on 133 days out of a total of 249 days in the trading business.
The risk management software runs independently from source trading systems and values all trades separately.
The values from the two systems are reconciled daily.
The values from the risk system are also used for profit attribution, another risk management tool.
Risk limits are set according to guidelines set out in our risk appetite policy and are calculated on a statistical and non-statistical basis.
Statistical limits include VaR and ETL analyses at various confidence intervals.
Historical VaR is used over 500 days of unweighted data, where every risk factor is exposed to daily moves over the past two years.
With the equity markets for example, every share and index is considered independently as opposed to techniques where proxies are used.
146 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Frequency: Days in a year Frequency: Days in a year Non-statistical limits include product limits, tenor, notional, liquidity, buckets and option sensitivities greeks.
When setting and reviewing these limits, current market conditions are taken into account.
Bucket limits are set on time buckets, generally at three month intervals out to two years and then, on a less granular basis, out to 30 years.
Traded market risk year in review Market conditions have not been conducive to client flow or proprietary trading.
South African equity markets took direction from the FX market which also influenced South African bond yields.
VaR has remained on the low side but higher than last year.
In the UK there has been continued growth in client activity across the interest rate and foreign exchange corporate sales desks.
On the trading side the Interest Rate and foreign exchange trading desks performed strongly over the year, despite the difficult environment.
Australian trading activity remains modest, with limited client flow activity and difficult foreign exchange and interest rate trading environments.
Revenue arising from customer ow trading activities within our Corporate Banking division million 80 77.1 76.4 70 60 50 43.4 43.2 40 27.7 30 22.8 20 11.1 10 5.4 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 0 UK and Europe Southern Africa Australia Total Audited Market risk derivatives We enter into various derivatives contracts, both as principal for trading purposes and as customer for hedging foreign exchange, commodity, equity and interest rate exposures.
These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate agreements.
The risks associated with derivative instruments are monitored in the same manner as for the underlying instruments.
Risks are also measured across the product range to take into account possible correlations.
Information showing our derivative trading portfolio over the reporting period on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives can be found on pages 329 and 330.
The notional principal indicates our activity in the derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at year end.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument represents the present value of the positive or negative cash flows which would have occurred had we closed out the rights and obligations arising from that instrument in an orderly market transaction at year end.
Both these amounts reflect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical financial instruments used to hedge these positions.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 147 Risk management continued Balance sheet risk management Balance sheet risk description Balance sheet risk management encompasses the independent monitoring and prudential management of the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising market liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
Balance sheet risk governance structure and risk mitigation Under delegated authority of the board, the group has established asset and liability management committees ALCOs within each core geography in which it operates, using regional expertise and local market access as appropriate.
The ALCOs are mandated to ensure independent supervision of liquidity risk and non-trading interest rate risk.
The size, materiality, complexity, maturity and depth of the market as well as access to stable funds are all inputs considered when establishing the liquidity and non-trading interest rate risk appetite for each geographic region.
Specific statutory requirements may further dictate special policies to be adopted in a region.
Detailed policies cover both domestic and foreign currency funds and set out sources and amounts of funds necessary to ensure the continuation of our operations without undue interruption.
We aim to match-fund in currencies, other than the domestic currency, where it is practical and efficient to do so and hedge any residual currency exchange risk arising from deposit and loan banking activities.
The groups liquidity policy requires each geography to be self-funding so that there is no reliance on inter-group lines either from or to other group entities.
Branches and subsidiaries have no responsibility for contributing to group liquidity.
The ALCOs typically comprise the managing director, the head of risk, the head of Corporate Client, economists, divisional heads, the balance sheet risk management team, the treasurer, Private Client representatives and any appropriate co-opted personnel.
The ALCOs meet on a monthly basis to discuss the balance sheet, market conditions and decide on strategies to mitigate any undesirable liquidity and interest rate risk.
The groups central treasury function is mandated to manage the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability portfolios on a day-to-day basis.
The treasurer is required to exercise tight control of funding, liquidity, concentration and non-trading interest rate risk within parameters defined by the board approved risk appetite policy.
Most non-trading interest rate risk and asset funding requirements are transferred from the originating business to the treasury function.
The groups central treasury function directs pricing for all deposit products including deposit products offered to the private clients, establishes and maintains access to stable wholesale funds with the appropriate tenor and pricing characteristics, and manages liquid securities and collateral, thus providing for a controlled and flexible response to volatile market conditions.
The central treasury function is the sole interface to the wholesale market for both cash and derivative transactions.
We maintain an internal funds transfer pricing system based on prevailing market rates.
Our funds transfer pricing system charges the businesses the price of short-term and long-term liquidity.
The costs and risks of liquidity are clearly and transparently attributed to business lines and are understood by business line management.
The balance sheet risk management team, based within group Risk Management, independently identifies, quantifies and monitors risks, providing daily independent governance and oversight of the central treasury activities and the execution of the banks policy, continuously assessing the risks whilst taking changes in market conditions into account.
In carrying out its duties the balance sheet risk management team monitors historical liquidity trends, tracks prospective onand off-balance sheet liquidity obligations.
Identifies and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals which permit early detection of liquidity issues through daily liquidity reporting, performs scenario analysis which quantifies our exposure, thus providing a comprehensive and consistent governance framework.
The balance sheet risk team further pro-actively identifies proposed best risk practice and measures adopted in the broader market and implements the changes where relevant.
The scenario modelling and daily liquidity stress tests are designed to measure and manage the liquidity position such that payment obligations can be met under a wide range of normal, company-specific and market-driven stress scenarios.
These scenarios consider the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and draw-downs on lending facilities are varied, and the ability to access funding and to generate funds from asset portfolios is restricted.
The parameters used in the scenarios are regularly reviewed, taking into account changes in the business environments and input from business units.
The objective is to have sufficient liquidity, in an acute stress, to continue to operate for a minimum period as detailed in the board approved risk appetite.
The integrated balance sheet risk management framework is based on similar methodologies as those contemplated under the BCBS liquidity risk measurement standards and monitoring and is compliant with the principles of sound liquidity risk management and supervision as well as guidelines for the management of interest rate risk on the banking book.
There is a regular internal audit of the balance sheet risk management function, the frequency of which is determined by the independent audit committee.
The group operates an industry recognised third party system to identify, measure, manage and monitor liquidity risk on both a current and forward-looking basis.
The system is reconciled to the banks general ledger and audited by internal audit thereby ensuring integrity of the process.
148 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Daily, weekly and monthly reports are independently produced showing bank activity, exposures and key measures against thresholds and limits and are distributed to management, Non-trading ALCO, the central treasury function, ERRF, BRCC and the board.
interest rate Statutory reports are submitted to the relevant regulators in each jurisdiction within which we risk in the operate.
banking book Audited Non-trading interest rate risk description is an inherent consequence Non-trading interest rate risk, otherwise known as interest rate risk in the banking book, is the impact on net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of unexpected of conducting adverse movements in interest rates arising from the execution of our core business strategies banking and the delivery of products and services to our customers.
activities, and Sources of interest rate risk include: arises from the Repricing risk: Arises from the timing differences in the fixed rate maturity and floating provision of retail rate repricing of bank assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet derivative positions.
This affects the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, and wholesale when applied to our rate sensitive portfolios non-trading Yield curve risk: Repricing mismatches also expose the bank to changes in the slope and banking products shape of the yield curve and services.
Basis risk: Arises from imperfect correlation in the adjustments of the rates earned and paid on different instruments with otherwise similar repricing characteristics Optionality: We are not materially exposed to optionality risk, as contract breakage penalties on fixed-rate advances specifically cover this risk, while prepayment optionality is restricted to variable rate contracts and has no impact on interest rate risk.
These affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, when applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios, which has a direct effect on future net interest income and the economic value of equity.
Management and measurement of non-trading interest rate risk Non-trading interest rate risk in the banking book is an inherent consequence of conducting banking activities, and arises from the provision of retail and wholesale non-trading banking products and services.
The group considers the management of banking margin of vital importance, and our core non-trading interest rate risk philosophy is reflected in day-to-day practices which encompass the following: The group complies with the BCBS framework for assessing banking book non-trading interest rate risk The management of interest rate risk in the banking book is centralised within Central Treasury and Central Treasury is mandated by the board to actively manage the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability portfolios.
The treasurer is required to exercise tight control of funding, liquidity, concentration and non-trading interest rate risk within parameters defined by the Risk Appetite Policy Most non-trading interest rate risk and asset funding requirements are transferred from the originating business to Central Treasury.
The policy dictates that long term non-trading interest rate risk is materially eliminated.
The Bank swaps its Fixed Deposits and Loans with maturities greater than one year to three-month risk in the wholesale market via Interest Rate Swaps Central Treasury directs pricing for all deposit products including deposit products offered to the private clients, in so doing we manage access to funding at cost-effective levels The bank maintains an internal funds transfer pricing system based on prevailing market rates which charges out the price of longand short-term funding to consumers of liquidity and provides long-term stable funding for our asset creation activity Central Treasury is the primary interface to the wholesale market Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 149 Risk management continued Daily management of interest rate risk by Central Treasury, subject to independent ALCO review Technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments by geography and global trends Independent measurement and analysis of both traditional interest rate repricing mismatch and NPV sensitivity to changes in interest rate risk factors, detailing the sources of interest rate exposure.
Non-trading interest rate risk is measured and managed from both earnings and economic value perspectives, with the aim to protect and enhance net interest income in accordance with the board approved risk management framework and risk appetite.
The standard tools that are used to measure non-trading interest rate risk as defined above are: the repricing gap: net interest income sensitivity also referred to as earnings risk : and economic value or NPV sensitivity.
This is consistent with the standardised interest rate measurement recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book nontrading interest rate risk.
Economic value measures have the advantage that all future cash flows are considered and therefore can highlight risk beyond the earnings horizon.
The aim is to protect and enhance net interest income and economic value in accordance with the board approved risk appetite.
The repricing gap provides a basic representation of the balance sheet, with the sensitivity of earnings in changes to interest rates calculated off the repricing gap.
This allows for the detection of interest rate risk by concentration of repricing buckets.
Net interest income sensitivity measures the change in accruals expected over the specified horizon in response to a shift in the yield curve.
Economic value sensitivity and stress testing to macro-economic movement or changes measures the interest risk implicit change in net worth as a result of a change in interest rates on the current values of financial assets and liabilities.
Technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments are used to estimate a set of forward-looking interest rate scenarios incorporating movements in the yield curve level and shape, after taking global trends into account.
This combination of measures provides senior management and the ALCOs with an assessment of the financial impact of identified rate changes on potential future net interest income and sensitivity to changes in economic value.
Our Risk Appetite Policy requires that interest rate risk arising from fixed interest loans risk is transferred from the originating business to the central treasury function by match-funding.
In turn, Central Treasury hedges all fixed rate assets with a term of more than one year on a dealby-deal basis to within three-months repricing with the use of variable vs. fixed interest rate swaps.
The market for these vanilla swaps is deep, with the result that such hedging is efficient.
Likewise, Central Treasury also hedges all fixed rate deposits with a term of more than one year to within three-months repricing.
These derivative hedging trades are executed with the banks interest rate trading desk.
Limits exist to ensure there is no undesired risk retained within any business or product area.
Operationally, non-trading interest rate risk is transferred within pre-defined guidelines from the originating business to the central treasury function and aggregated or netted.
The Central Treasury then implements appropriate balance sheet strategies to achieve a cost-effective source of funding and mitigates any residual undesirable risk where possible, by changing the duration of the banking groups discretionary liquid asset portfolio, or through derivative transactions which transfer the risk into the trading books within the Corporate Client division to be traded with the external market.
The Central Treasury mandate allows for a tactical response to market opportunities which may arise during changing interest rate cycles.
Any resultant interest rate position is managed under the Market Risk Limits.
150 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Interest rate sensitivity gap The tables below show our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs assuming no management intervention.
The tables below reflect our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates assuming no management intervention.
The numbers represent the change to the mark-to-market values of the lending and deposit taking activities, should such a hypothetical scenario arise.
This sensitivity effect does not have a significant direct impact on our equity.
UK and Europe Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies million GBP USD EUR Other GBP All GBP 200bp down 22.0 0.5 0.9 0.2 20.7 200bp up 22.0 0.5 0.9 0.2 20.7 South Africa Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies million ZAR GBP USD EUR AUD All ZAR 200bp down 23.1 6.3 7.5 2.8 1.8 97.0 200bp up 15.7 6.5 6.2 6.5 1.4 56.0 Australia million AUD 200bp down 5.91 200bp up 5.91 Liquidity risk Audited Liquidity risk description Liquidity risk is the risk that we have insufficient capacity to fund increases in assets, or are unable to meet our payment obligations, as they fall due, without incurring unacceptable losses.
This includes repaying depositors or maturing wholesale debt.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution-specific and marketwide events.
Liquidity risk is further broken down into: Funding liquidity: which relates to the risk that the bank will be unable to meet current and or future cash flow or collateral requirements in the normal course of business, without adversely affecting its financial position or its reputation Market liquidity: which relates to the risk that the bank may be unable to trade in specific markets or that it may only be able to do so with difficulty due to market disruptions or a lack of market liquidity.
Sources of liquidity risk include: unforeseen withdrawals of deposits: restricted access to new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics: inability to liquidate a marketable asset in a timely manner with minimal risk of capital loss: unpredicted customer non-payment of loan obligations: and a sudden increased demand for loans in the absence of corresponding funding inflows of appropriate maturity.
Management and measurement of liquidity risk Cohesive liquidity management is vital for protecting our depositors, preserving market confidence, safeguarding our reputation and ensuring sustainable growth with established funding sources.
Through active liquidity management, we seek to preserve stable, reliable and cost effective sources of funding.
Inadequate liquidity can bring about the untimely demise of any financial institution.
As such, the group considers Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 153 Risk management continued ongoing access to appropriate liquidity for all its operations to be of paramount importance, and our core liquidity philosophy is reflected in day-to-day practices which encompass the following: Our liquidity management processes encompass principles set out by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction, namely the FSA, SARB, APRA, and the Bank of Mauritius The group complies with the BCBS Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision The group has committed itself to implementation of the BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk measurement standards and monitoring and the enhanced regulatory framework to be established, to be implemented in 2015 and 2018 The risk appetite is clearly defined by the board and each geographic entity must have its own board approved policies with respect to liquidity risk management Each geographic entity must be self sufficient from a funding and liquidity standpoint so that there is no reliance on intergroup lines either from or to other group entities Branches and subsidiaries have no responsibility for contributing to group liquidity We maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered, cash, government or rated securities typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash well in excess of the statutory requirements as protection against unexpected disruptions in cash flows Funding is diversified with respect to currency, term, product, client type and counterparty to ensure a satisfactory overall funding mix We monitor and evaluate each banking entitys maturity ladder and funding gap cashflow maturity mismatch on a liquidation, going concern and stress basis Daily liquidity stress tests are carried out to measure and manage the liquidity position such that payment obligations can be met under a wide range of normal and unlikely but plausible stressed scenarios, in which the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and drawdowns on lending facilities are varied, and the ability to access funding and to generate funds from asset portfolios is restricted.
The objective is to have sufficient liquidity, in an acute stress, to continue to operate for a minimum period as detailed in the board approved risk appetite Our liquidity risk parameters reflect a collection of liquidity stress assumptions which are reviewed regularly and updated as needed.
These stress factors go well beyond our experience during the height of the recent financial crisis The balance sheet risk management team independently monitors key daily funding metrics and liquidity ratios to assess potential risks to the liquidity position, which further act as early warning indicators The group centrally manages access to funds in both domestic and offshore markets through the Central Treasury divisions The maintenance of sustainable prudent liquidity resources, takes precedence over profitability Each major banking entity maintains an internal funds transfer pricing system based on prevailing market rates.
The central treasury function charges out the price of longand short-term funding to internal consumers of liquidity, which ensures that the costs, benefits, and risks of liquidity are clearly and transparently attributed to business lines and are understood by business line management.
The funds transfer pricing methodology is designed to signal the right incentive to our lending business The group maintains adequate contingency funding plans.
Our liquidity risk management reflects evolving best practice standards in light of the challenging environment.
Liquidity risk management encompasses the ongoing management of structural, tactical day-to-day and contingent stress liquidity.
Management uses assumptions-based planning and scenario modelling that considers market conditions, prevailing interest rates, and projected balance sheet growth, to estimate future funding and liquidity needs whilst taking the desired nature and profile of liabilities into account.
These metrics are used to develop our funding strategy and measure and manage the execution thereof.
The funding plan details the proportion of our external assets which are funded by customer liabilities, unsecured wholesale debt, equity and loan capital, thus maintaining an appropriate mix of structural and term funding, resulting in strong balance sheet liquidity ratios.
This ensures the smooth management of the day-to-day liquidity position within conservative parameters and further validates that, in the event of either a firm-specific or general market contingent event, we are able to generate sufficient liquidity to withstand short-term liquidity stress or market disruptions.
We maintain a funding structure with stable private client deposits and long-term wholesale funding well in excess of illiquid assets.
We target a diversified funding base, avoiding undue concentrations by investor type, maturity, market source, instrument and currency.
This validates our ability to generate funding from a broad range of sources in a variety of geographic locations, which enhances financial flexibility and limits dependence on any one source so as to ensure a satisfactory overall funding mix.
We acknowledge the importance of our private client base as the principal source of stable and well diversified funding for our private client risk assets.
We continue to develop products to attract and service the investment needs of our private client client base.
Although the 154 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information contractual repayments of many private client customer accounts are on demand or at short Group cash and near cash notice, in practice such accounts remain a stable source of funds.
Our Private Client division continued to successfully raise private client deposits despite competitive pressures with total up 10% to deposits increasing by 3.6% from 1 April 2011 to 12.9 billion at 31 March 2012.
We also have a number of innovative retail deposit initiatives within our Corporate Client division and 10 251 million these continued to experience strong inflows during the financial year.
On average our fixed and notice customer deposits have amounted to approximately 70% of total deposits since April 2006, thereby displaying a strong stickiness and willingness to reinvest by our retail customers.
Investec plc Entities within the group actively participate in global financial markets and our relationship is cash and near cash continuously enhanced through regular investor presentations internationally.
Entities are only up 2% to allowed to have funding exposure to wholesale markets where they can demonstrate that the market is sufficiently deep and liquid, and then only relative to the size and complexity of 4 576 million their business.
We have instituted various offshore syndicated loan programmes to broaden and diversify term-funding in supplementary markets and currencies, enhancing the proven capacity to borrow in the money markets.
The group remains committed to increasing its core deposits and accessing domestic and foreign corporate clients when appropriate.
Decisions Investec Limited on the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based on relative costs, general cash and near cash market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
up 31% to The groups ability to access funding at cost-effective levels is influenced by maintaining or improving the entitys credit rating.
A reduction in these ratings could have an adverse R69 077 million effect on the groups funding costs, and access to wholesale term funding.
Credit ratings are dependent on multiple factors including business model, strategy, capital adequacy levels, quality of earnings, risk appetite and exposure, and control framework.
We engage in transactions that involve the use of both special purpose entities and asset Average cash and near cash securitisation structures.
Securitisation represents a relatively modest proportion of our for the group current funding profile, but provides additional flexibility and source of term liquidity.
These up to entities form part of the consolidated group balance sheet as reported.
Our funding and liquidity capacity is not reliant on these entities to any material extent and we do not rely on 10 012 million these vehicles for funding in the normal course of business.
As mentioned above, we hold a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered readily available, high quality liquid assets, typically in the form of government or rated securities eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash well in excess of the statutory requirements as protection against unexpected disruptions in cash flows.
Investec remains a net liquidity provider to the interbank market, placing significantly more funds with other banks than our short-term interbank borrowings.
These portfolios are managed within limits and, apart from acting as a buffer under going concern conditions, also form an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy.
We do not rely on interbank deposits to fund term lending.
From 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 average cash and near cash balances over the period amounted to 10 billion 3.5 billion in UK and Europe: R66 billion in South Africa and A$1.4 billion in Australia.
The group does not rely on committed funding lines for protection against unforeseen interruptions to cash flow.
We are currently unaware of any circumstances that could significantly detract from our ability to raise funding appropriate to our needs.
Each banking entity within the group maintains a contingency funding plan to, as far as possible, protect stakeholder interests and maintain market confidence in order to ensure a positive outcome in the event of a liquidity crisis.
The liquidity contingency plans outline extensive early warning indicators and clear and decisive crisis response strategies.
Early warning indicators span bank specific and systemic crises.
Rapid response strategies address action plans, roles and responsibilities, composition of decision making bodies involved in liquidity crisis management, internal and external communications including public relations, sources of liquidity, avenues available to access additional liquidity, as well as supplementary information requirements.
This plan helps to ensure that cash flow estimates and commitments can be met in the event of general market disruption or adverse bank specific events, while minimising detrimental long-term implications for the business.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 155 Risk management continued Total Investec group cash and near cash trend million 11 000 Average 10 000 9 000 8 000 7 000 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 Sept 11 Apr 11 May 11 Jun 11 Jul 11 Aug 11 Oct 11 Nov 11 Dec 11 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Investec plc cash and near cash trend million 6 000 5 000 Average 4 000 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 Apr 11 May 11 Jun 11 Jul 11 Aug 11 Sept 11 Oct 11 Nov 11 Dec 11 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Investec Limited cash and near cash trend Rmillion 80 000 Average 70 000 60 000 50 000 40 000 30 000 20 000 10 000 0 Apr 11 May 11 Jun 11 Jul 11 Aug 11 Sept 11 Oct 11 Nov 11 Dec 11 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 156 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information An analysis of cash and near cash 18.7% 9.1% 26.1% 81.5% 9.4% 60.6% 20.7% 43.9% 30.0% Cash Near cash central bank guaranteed liquidity Total group Investec plc Investec Limited Near cash other monetisable assets 10 251 million 4 576 million 69 077 million Bank and non-bank depositor concentration by type 17.4% 17.4% 1.3% 5.1% 4.1% 7.1% 4.1% 84.9% 0.5% 8.7% 24.8% 32.8% Financial institutions 57.8% banks 34.0% Corporates Private clients Fund managers UK and Europe South Africa Australia Public sector Other 11 291 million R190 027 million A$2 371 million Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 157 Risk management continued Liquidity mismatch The tables that follow show our contractual liquidity mismatch across our core geographies.
The tables may not agree directly to the balances disclosed in the respective balance sheets since the tables may incorporate cash flows on a contractual, undiscounted basis based on the earliest date on which the group can be required to pay.
The liquidity position of the group strengthened in 2012, and we continued to enjoy strong inflows of customer deposits whilst maintaining good access to wholesale markets despite the ongoing Eurozone crisis and underlying market conditions.
Our liquidity and funding profile reflects our strategy, risk appetite and business activities.
The tables reflect that loans and advances to customers are largely financed by stable funding sources.
With respect to the contractual liquidity mismatch: No assumptions are made except as mentioned below, and we record all assets and liabilities with the underlying contractual maturity as determined by the cash flow profile for each deal As an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy, we maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered cash, government, or bank paper typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash as a buffer against both expected and unexpected cash flows.
The actual contractual profile of this asset class is of little consequence, as practically Investec would meet any unexpected net cash outflows by repoing or selling these securities, we have: Set the time horizon to on demand to monetise our statutory liquid assets for which liquidity is guaranteed by the central bank Set the time horizon to one month to monetise our cash and near cash portfolio of available-for-sale discretionary treasury assets, where there are deep secondary markets for this elective asset class Reported the contractual profile by way of a note to the tables.
With respect to the behavioural liquidity mismatch: The new funding we would require under normal business circumstances is shown in the behavioural mismatch.
Many retail deposits, which are included within customer accounts, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a contractual basis.
In practice, these instruments form a stable base for the groups operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers.
To this end, behavioural profiling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity, as the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice but expected cash flows vary significantly from contractual maturity.
An internal analysis model is used, based on statistical research of the historical series of products.
This is used to identify significant additional sources of structural liquidity in the form of core deposits that exhibit stable behaviour.
In addition, re-investment behaviour, with profile and attrition based on history, is applied to term deposits in the normal course of business.
160 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Australia Contractual liquidity as at 31 March 2012 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Cash and short-term funds banks 383 383 Investment trading assets 1139 12 25 6 8 64 56 1310 Securitised assets 2 29 73 79 171 461 10 825 Advances 17 104 139 324 434 1012 149 2179 Other assets 5 27 36 81 53 332 534 Assets 1541 150 264 445 694 1590 547 5231 Deposits non-banks 435 279 842 544 106 153 12 2371 Negotiable paper 26 176 10 14 972 1198 Securitised liabilities 2 27 69 344 371 813 Subordinated liabilities 71 71 Other liabilities 2 12 18 52 28 69 181 Liabilities 437 334 1099 916 543 1224 81 4634 Intercompany loans Shareholders funds 597 597 Contractual liquidity gap 1104 184 835 471 151 366 131 Cumulative liquidity gap 1104 920 85 386 235 131 Note: contractual liquidity adjustments as discussed on page 158 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Investment trading assets 280 135 62 137 814 118 1546 Advances 207 98 127 289 364 945 149 2179 Behavioural liquidity as discussed on page 158 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Behavioural liquidity gap 1476 245 841 644 28 358 132 Cumulative 1476 1231 390 254 226 132 Includes call deposits of A$414 million and the balance reflects term deposits which have finally reached are reaching contractual maturity.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 161 Risk management continued Balance sheet risk year in review UK and Europe The official UK Bank rate remained at 0.5% during the period under review, marking three years of record low rates.
The MPC fended off some calls for a rate increase over spring 2011 while inflation was rising CPI inflation eventually hit 5.2% in September, before signs of a slowdown in the economy and a tightening in credit conditions resulted in the committee sanctioning further Quantitative Easing QE in October.
Originally the MPC voted to add a further 75 billion of asset purchases to take the target to 275 billion, but raised the QE target by another 50 billion in February to 325 billion.
In what was a choppy year due to factors such as the weather and an extra Bank holiday for the Royal Wedding, the British economy shrank by 0.3% in the final quarter of calendar year 2011, but the general expectation is for a modest rebound in Q1 2012.
The UKs long-term sovereign credit rating remains AAA according to all the main ratings agencies, but both Moodys and Fitch placed Britain on a negative outlook.
However there has not been a perceptible market reaction to this news.
Signs of firm economic growth in Europe for much of the beginning of the financial year resulted in the ECB raising its main refinancing rate by 25bps in both April and July 2011, to 1.5%.
However these hikes were reversed in November and December as the economic outlook began to deteriorate rapidly.
At the end of March 2012 the refinance rate stood at 1.0%.
As the Eurozone debt crisis continued, Portugal needed to be bailed out in May 2011, joining Greece and Ireland.
Concerns over the vulnerability of various peripheral Euro area sovereign markets, especially Italy and Spain, plus the possible knock-on effects on the Eurozone banking system, triggered a major tightening in credit conditions from June 2011 onwards.
To help to get the flow of credit moving again, and to help banks refinance an estimated 240 billion of liability maturities in the first three months of 2012, the ECB held two three-year Longer-Term Refinancing Operations LTROs, whose combined take-up exceeded 1 trillion.
Indeed at the end of March the Eurosystem had over 750 billion of excess liquidity.
In addition, a second Greek bailout helped to ease fears of an uncontrolled default by the Hellenic Republic, despite a 53.5% nominal haircut being enforced through a bond swap.
Also the Euro area authorities gave the go ahead to run the two rescue facilities, the EFSF and its replacement the ESM, in tandem, thereby raising Europes bailout capacity by 200 billion to 700 billion.
From the end of 2012 there were some signs that the Euro area economy could have begun to stabilise and by the end of the period, key yields and capital market spreads had come down sharply.
The Eurozone banks were most impacted, with US money funds refusing to place funds with them even on a short-term basis.
With the announcement of the provision of USD swap lines between the Fed and the ECB as well as the announcement by the new ECB President of the three year LTRO to be held in December, panic subsided.
489 billion Euros were provided in the first LTRO and an additional 530 billion were provided in February 2012.
Appetite for risk assets, especially those with maturities shorter than the maturity date of the LTRO, increased dramatically.
Various liquidity risk indicators reversed their impending doom direction and markets have acquired a faintly optimistic tone.
Greece did default in an orderly way but there are still questions about the ability and willingness of the Eurozone to provide the backstop facilities to ensure Spain, Portugal or Italy do not provide a new focus for sovereign risk fears.
The bank entered the year with a healthy surplus liquidity position which was managed down over the course of the year.
In December the bank re-entered the mass retail funding market with two new notice products and attractive rates on term fixed rate products.
The bank also improved the payoff profiles for its structured deposit offering.
Both actions have seen a healthy in-flow of retail funds.
No wholesale funding transactions were entered into over the course of the year as retail continued to provide the funds necessary for the business.
Cash and near cash balances as at 31 March 2012 amounted to 3.6 billion 2011: 3.5 billion with total customer deposits increasing by 7.4% during the year to 9.5 billion.
South Africa The financial year was characterised by no official change in interest rates, despite the fact that inflation exceeded the target at the end of the third quarter.
However, the yield curve fluctuated markedly around the short end anchor point as firstly fears of rates cuts surfaced in the first half of the year and then speculation on a possible rate hike surfaced in the latter part of the year.
The monetary authorities indicated that inflation would remain out of the target range for a significant period, but concern over global weakness and possible recession on the back of the European bank and credit crisis stayed their hand.
2011 saw borrowing costs for debt stressed Euro sovereigns spiral to new highs in November on the spike in risk aversion, driving global money market rates up and the rand weaker.
The Rand was also very volatile, ending the year weaker than it started, although it depreciated by double this to R8.57:USD R13.31:GBP in November.
The high level of liquidity in global markets on the back of Central Banks action, including the quantitative easing in the UK and the ECB provision of unlimited three year loans, has driven demand for both SAs bonds and emerging market assets in general, with the result that the Rand has ended the financial year close to fair value currently estimated around R7.67:USD.
One over-riding constant though was a continual upward pressure on longer-term spreads to the three-month JIBAR benchmark as banks competed to lengthen their deposit books in the face of a marked drop in the appetite for longer duration assets from Money Market funds in particular.
Investec continued to build its cash resources over the course of the year as general fund raising activities more than exceeded a slight uptick in lending activities.
The bank continued to benefit from a growing retail franchise with total customer deposits increasing by 14% from 1 April 2011 to R176.1 billion at 31 March 2012.
Cash and near cash balances increased by 31.3% from 1 April 2011 to R69.1 billion at 31 March 2012.
Our liquidity was further boosted by several successful medium-term senior and subordinated notes issues refer to pages 348 to 351.
Syndicated loan deals in Europe and the Far East and other structured transactions raised about USD1.75 billion longer-term funds.
Our major focus along with other major South African banks has been a desire to reshape the nature of our deposit books towards more retail and longer-term funds in order to meet the new Basel III liquidity guidelines that will be implemented in 2015.
We anticipate no problems in meeting the new regulations in time: however, the impact on overall margins will be negative in the short to medium term.
162 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Australia The Australian economy has remained one of the strongest advanced economies in the world, supported by the connection to Asia with the trade surplus up 1.5% of GDP.
The Australian Dollar exhibited periods of extreme strength from time to time, exceeding the USD1.10 level for a while in July, but closed the 2011 12 financial year at USD1.0350.
The unemployment rate has remained subdued at 5.3% albeit some signs of softness in employment growth occurred through the year and significant shifts in structural demand have been evident arising from the demand in the mining sector but weakness in retail trade.
Inflation remains contained with the underlying rate remaining in the middle of the Reserve Bank of Australias 2% 3% target band.
Public finances are in a positive condition relative to most Western governments, with Australian Commonwealth Government net debt peaking at around 9% of GDP.
Credit growth, particularly at the consumer end, remains weak and the household savings ratio remains strongly positive, in part reflecting a continued cautionary approach by consumers, reflecting sensitivity to the economic headlines relating to European sovereign risk that dominated the second half of 2011.
The Australian banking system has strengthened liquidity, as a result of the weak demand for credit and higher savings ratio, along with the new legislative support for covered bonds adding a new instrument for access to term debt funding.
As expected, the government also reviewed the threshold level for its retail deposit guarantee, and adjusted the level from $1 million initially set in October 2008 in response to the global financial crisis to A$250 000 on a continuing basis.
In response to the evolving environment the Reserve Bank of Australia reduced interest rates in the second half of the year with two reductions of 0.25% each to take the cash rate from 4.75% to 4.25%.
Investec Australia maintained a strong liquidity position well in excess of regulatory and internal policy requirements throughout the year, with average cash and near cash balances amounting to A$1.4 billion.
Total customer deposits increased by 7.2% from 1 April 2011 to A$2.4 billion at 31 March 2012.
Investec group We successfully embarked on several term debt funding initiatives, accessing domestic and foreign corporate clients when appropriate, taking advantage of pockets of well-priced liquidity.
This allowed us to maintain liquidity above internal and external liquidity targets.
Decisions concerning timing of issuance and the tenor of liabilities are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of organic balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
Investec plc: We issued 75 million of senior bank debt with a term of 18 months.
Investec Bank plc: We issued a further tranche of 75 million of subordinated debt maturing February 2022.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL : Undertook a further term securitisation of A$215 million Professional Finance assets from the Impala securitisation vehicle IBAL bought back $125 million of previously issued government guaranteed term debt.
Investec Bank Limited IBL : We issued 10 year subordinated debt totalling R3.0 billion over the course of the year We issued medium-term 3.5 and 10 year notes totalling R2.8 billion over the course of the year We raised 1.2 billion USD equivalent multicurrency syndicated loan for 24 months to boost our foreign currency cash reserves.
Regulatory considerations balance sheet risk Regulators are proposing to both strengthen and harmonise global liquidity standards and to ensure a strong financial sector and global economy.
We believe that we are well positioned for the proposed regulatory reform as we have reduced risk and maintained strong capital, funding and liquidity.
In December 2010, BCBS updated its guidelines for liquidity risk measurement standards and monitoring, which supplemented the 2008 Principles of Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision.
The group has committed itself to implementation of the BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk measurement standards and monitoring the enhanced regulatory framework to be established.
Investec has been proactively reporting on these ratios internally according to the emerging Basel definitions since February 2010.
In some jurisdictions Investec already exceeds minimum requirements of these standards, whilst in other geographies we have commenced with strategies to reshape our liquidity and funding profile where necessary, as we move towards the compliance timeline.
The strategic impact of Basel III internationally is significant, and has the potential to change the business model of non-compliant banks whilst the regulatory developments could result in additional costs.
We have been an active participant in regulatory and industry forums to promote best practice standards on liquidity management.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 163 Risk management continued Two key liquidity measures as defined are: Banks are Liquidity coverage ratio LCR This ratio is designed to promote short-term resilience of one month liquidity profile, by expected to ensuring that banks have sufficient high quality liquid assets to meet potential outflows in a commence stressed environment.
reporting on Net stable funding ratio NSFR the ratios in This ratio is designed to capture structural issues over a longer time horizon by requiring 2012 and full banks to have a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities.
implementation Both the LCR and the NSFR will be subject to an observation period and will include a review clause to address any unintended consequences.
Banks are expected to commence and compliance reporting on the ratios in 2012 and full implementation and compliance of the LCR and NSFR of the LCR and in 2015 and 2018 respectively.
NSFR in 2015 and UK 2018 respectively.
In December the FSA conducted its Supervisory Liquidity Review Process SLRP for the bank.
This was followed up by its Individual Liquidity Guidance letter in February 2012.
The UK is committed to implementing the BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk measurement.
Our UK operation currently meets both the new liquidity ratios LCR and NSFR.
The UK governments recent announcement on regulatory reform, particularly the Independent Commission on Banking, implies considerable change might lie ahead for the banking industry.
Our UK business continues to engage with the regulators to establish the potential implications for the bank.
Investec plc currently meets both the new liquidity ratios LCR and NSFR.
South Africa South Africa is also committed to implementing the BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk measurement, by the due dates of 2015 and 2018.
Investec is involved in the process in the following ways: Collectively via the Banking Association of South Africa and their task groups Direct bilateral consultation with SARB and SARB task teams As part of the Quantitative Impact Study by BCBS via SARB As part of National Treasury Structural Funding and Liquidity Risk task team.
The banking industry in South Africa will find it difficult to meet the new ratios LCR and NSFR as a result of the shortcomings and constraints in the South African environment.
The banking sector in South Africa is characterised by certain structural features such as a low discretionary savings rate and a higher degree of contractual savings that are captured by institutions such as pension funds, provident funds and providers of asset management services.
The proposed liquidity measures have the potential to impact growth and job creation in the economy.
In recognition thereof, the Finance Minister instituted a Structural Funding and Liquidity task team to investigate the constraints in the South African market and make recommendations to address these limitations.
The SARB issued the first draft for the proposed changes to implement the new liquidity framework in early April 2012 and it is expected to be finalised early in 2013.
The regulator has issued Guidance note 5 2012, following the BCBS guideline for Treatment of jurisdictions with insufficient liquid assets, which makes provisions for contractual committed liquidity facilities from the relevant central bank, with a fee where a jurisdiction has an insufficient supply of Level 1 assets in their domestic currency to meet the aggregate demand of banks with significant exposures in this currency.
164 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Policies and procedures Australia The Australian regulatory environment has progressed, as expected, towards full introduction of Basel III standards through the release by APRA of discussion papers, draft standards and certain new laws passed by the Federal Parliament.
In respect of Liquidity, APRA released a Discussion Paper titled Implementing Basel III Liquidity Reforms in Australia and a Draft Prudential Standard APS 210 Liquidity.
APRA proposes to apply the qualitative liquidity requirements of Basel III upon the release of the final APS 210 expected in mid to late 2012, and the quantitative liquidity requirements for larger ADIs in line with the Basel III minimums and timeframes with only minor modification relating to the national discretion provided under Basel III where clarification is required for Australian circumstances.
The most notable modification being the potential allowance of a secured committed liquidity facility with the Reserve Bank of Australia as a mechanism for ADIs to cover any shortfall in Australian Dollars between the ADIs liquidity needs at its holding of HQLA High Quality Liquid Assets due to the insufficient supply of HQLA in Australia.
As part of the evolution of these reforms, the Federal government passed legislation enabling the issuance of Covered Bonds by Australian Banks, and the Federal government reviewed and modified its guarantee regime for retail deposits the Financial Claims Scheme, confirming the commitment to the scheme and lowering the coverage level from the A$1 million threshold, set in October 2008 in response to the global financial crisis, to a ongoing new threshold of A$250 000.
Investec Australia currently meets both the new liquidity ratios LCR and NSFR.
Operational risk Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss or earnings volatility arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Loss is not limited to financial consequences, but may affect business objectives, customer service and regulatory responsibilities.
We recognise that there is a significant risk inherent in the operations of a bank.
We therefore endeavour to manage exposures and events, through the promotion of sound operational risk management practices, to an acceptable level.
This is done taking the cost and benefits of mitigation into account.
We have adopted the standardised approach to calculate the regulatory operational risk capital requirement.
Operational risk management framework The objective of the framework is to set out a structured and efficient approach to manage operational risk and thereby improve business performance and comply with regulatory requirements.
Governance Risk appetite Risk and control Internal risk External risk Indicators Scenarios assessments events events Reporting Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 165 Technology Risk management continued Governance The governance structure adopted by the operational risk management function operates in terms of a levels of defence model and provides combined assurance as described below: Board and board committees Assurance Reliance Monitor and review the operational risk exposures and metrics External assurance and supervision External assessment of operational risk environment Onsite reviews by the SARB, FSA and APRA Internal assurance Independent review of framework and its effectiveness Audit findings integrated into operational risk management process Group operational risk management Challenge and review business unit operational practices and data Maintain operational risk framework and policy Report to board and board committees on operational risk exposures, events and emerging issues Business unit management Identify, own and mitigate operational risk Establish and maintain an appropriate operational risk and control environment Maintain an embedded operational risk management capability At a group level policies and practices have been established by group Operational Risk Management to ensure that operational risk is managed in an appropriate and consistent manner.
Operational risk at the business unit level is managed by embedded risk managers ERMs.
Significant risk exposures and events are subject to action and escalation by ERMs in terms of the Operational Risk Appetite policy.
This policy sets out the operational risk exposure that the group is willing to accept or retain.
Operational risk practices The following practices are key to the management of operational risk as described below: Practice Activity Risk and control assessment Qualitative assessment to identify key risks and controls Allows for improvement of ineffective controls and risk management decisions through an enhanced understanding of the operational risk profile.
Risk indicators Monitoring of risk exposures Assists in predictive capability through provision of early warning signs.
Internal risk events An incident, event or loss resulting from failed processes, people and systems or external events A causal analysis is performed to link the event and consequence to risks and controls Enables business to identify and correct control weakness.
External risk events Collected from selected public sources and analysed in a similar manner to internal risk events Analysis allows for improvement of the control environment through the awareness of possible risks.
Scenarios Extreme, unexpected but plausible loss events not yet experienced for which the financial and non-financial impacts are evaluated Used to measure the exposure arising from key risks, which is considered in determining internal operational risk capital requirements.
166 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Practice Activity Reporting Group operational risk management reports to the board, BRCC and audit committee on a regular basis Purpose is to ensure that risk exposures are understood at all levels throughout the group and key risks are appropriately escalated and managed on a timely basis.
Technology An infrastructure supports practices through capture, assessment and linking of operational risks and related data.
The practices which form part of the operational risk management framework, as described above, are monitored on an ongoing basis by group Operational Risk Management and the ERMs.
These components are integrated to inform each other, enabling more efficient monitoring of operational risk data integrity, compliance with the policies and practices, and the operational risk profile across the group.
Group operational risk profile The figures below represent the distribution of the value and number of risk events across the Basel risk event types.
Operational risk events by risk category % of total value of risk events 66.67% 52.89% 27.86% 23.39% 11.60% 2011 % of total value of 10.80% risk events 3.26% 2.10% 2012 % of total value of 1.24% 0.01% 0.07% 0.45% risk events 0.34% Damage Business Clients, Execution, Employment External Internal disruption products and to physical delivery and practices and fraud fraud and system business assets process workplace practices management safety failures Operational risk events by risk category % of total number of risk events 54.48% 51.14% 47.40% 44.12% 2011 % of total number of risk events 2012 % of total number 0.37% 0.31% 0.23% 0.20% 0.68% 0.93% 0.11% 0.03% 0.02% of risk events Damage Execution, Employment External Business Clients, Internal disruption products and to physical delivery and practices and fraud fraud and system business assets process workplace failures practices management safety Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 167 Risk management continued The increase in value of execution, delivery and process management events is primarily due to a small number of isolated events with a larger impact.
Employment practices and workplace safety represent losses associated with the resolution of employment issues.
The increase in value is primarily due to changes in the external market conditions.
The controls in place to mitigate both of these risk event types are considered and continually improved.
External fraud includes credit card fraud.
In line with market trends, the number of events relating to external fraud has increased within the group, consequently a continual focus on initiatives to improve, detect, prevent and mitigate credit card fraud has limited the financial loss.
Key operational risk considerations The following risks, which may result in reduction of earnings and or loss of value should they materialise, are a key focus of the group.
Financial crime Financial crime is the risk of loss due to, but not limited to, fraud, forgery, theft and corruption.
It also includes the execution of trades which have not been appropriately authorised.
It is identified, assessed, monitored and measured to ensure that the risk of loss is understood, managed and mitigated.
Financial crime is mitigated as follows: Ensuring that appropriate action is taken in respect of fraudulent activities Identifying criminal acts against the group and investigating and recovering losses Engaging with external specialists and industry forums Senior management is responsible for implementing appropriate financial crime risk mitigation and control practices.
Group Forensic Risk management provides and maintains the framework, policies, practices and monitoring to promote sound risk management practices and provide investigative support.
Regulatory and compliance risk Regulatory and compliance risk relates to the failure to comply with applicable laws, regulation or codes.
It has become increasingly significant due to the extent and complexity of laws and regulations with which the group is expected to comply.
Group Compliance and Group Legal assist in the management of this risk through the identification and adherence to legal and regulatory requirements to which the group is or will become subject.
Information security risk Information security continues to remain a key area of focus.
The group ensures that information security risk is appropriately mitigated within a rapidly changing technology and threat landscape.
ERMs focus on ensuring the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information.
Process management risk This risk of loss arises due to failed process management.
Losses in this area are continually mitigated through careful consideration of control effectiveness.
Developments During the year under review the operational risk management function revisited the operational risk governance structure to ensure alignment with sound practices, other risk disciplines and changes within the group structure.
Output from other assurance activities has also been integrated to enhance the operational risk management process.
Enhancement of the risk and control environment remains a key area of focus through the constant development of the operational risk management framework as practices are advanced.
This is also achieved through an increase in industry interaction, which creates awareness of best practice.
The group also monitors regulatory developments and actively engages with regulators.
Insurance The group maintains adequate insurance to cover key insurable risks.
The insurance process and requirements are managed by the group insurance risk manager.
Regular interaction between group operational risk management ensures that there is an exchange of information in order to enhance the mitigation of operational risks.
168 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Business continuity management The group maintains a global business continuity management capability which incorporates an appropriate level of resilience into the banks operations to minimise the risk of severe operational disruptions occurring.
In the event of a major disruption, an incident management framework will be used to manage the disruption.
Continuity will be achieved through a flexible and adaptable response, which includes relocating impacted business to the designated recovery site s. Dedicated resources ensure all governance processes are in place with business and technology teams responsible for activating and managing the recovery process.
The group conducts regular exercises and testing of recovery procedures to ensure that its recovery capability remains appropriate.
Reputational risk Reputational risk is damage to our reputation, name or brand.
Reputational risk arises as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational risk, including strong values that are regularly and proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
We are aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and confidence in the organisation.
The groups policies and practices are regularly reinforced through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
Pension risk Pension risk arises from obligations arising from defined benefit pension schemes, where Investec plc is required to fund any deficit in the schemes.
There are two defined benefit schemes within Investec plc and both are closed to new business.
Pension risk arises if the net present value of future cash outflows is greater than the current value of the asset pool set aside to cover those payments.
Primary sources at risk include: A mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities Market-driven asset price volatility Increased life expectancy of individuals leading to increased liabilities.
Investec plc monitors the position of the funds closely and regularly assesses potential adverse movements in the schemes in close conjunction with external, independent advisers.
Further information is provided on pages 345 to 347.
Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
Our objective is to identify, manage, monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout the group.
We seek to actively mitigate these risks by identifying them, setting minimum standards for their management and allocating clear responsibility for such management to legal risk managers, as well as ensuring compliance through proactive monitoring.
The scope of our activities is continuously reviewed and includes the following areas: Relationship contracts Legislation governance Litigation Corporate events Incident or crisis management Ongoing quality control.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 169 Risk management continued The legal risk policy is implemented through: Identification and ongoing review of areas where legal risk is found to be present Allocation of responsibility for the development of procedures for management and mitigation of these risks Installation of appropriate segregation of duties, so that legal documentation is reviewed and executed with the appropriate level of independence from the persons involved in proposing or promoting the transaction Ongoing examination of the inter-relationship between legal risk and other areas of risk management, so as to ensure that there are no gaps in the risk management process Establishing minimum standards for mitigating and controlling each risk, including the nature and extent of work to be undertaken by our internal and external legal resources Establishing procedures to monitor compliance, taking into account the required minimum standards Establishing legal risk forums, bringing together the various legal risk managers, to ensure we keep abreast of developments and changes in the nature and extent of our activities, and to benchmark our processes against best practice.
Overall responsibility for this policy rests with the board.
The board delegates responsibility for implementation of the policy to the global head of Legal Risk.
The global head assigns responsibility for controlling these risks to the managers of appropriate departments and focused units throughout the group.
A legal risk forum is constituted in each significant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half-yearly and more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired by the global head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the chief executive officer of each legal entity.
Capital management and allocation Although Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries are managed independently, the governance of capital management is consistent across the two groups.
The DLC structure requires the two groups to independently manage each groups balance sheet and hence capital is managed on this basis.
This approach is overseen by the BRCC via the Investec DLC capital committee which is a board sub-committee with ultimate responsibility for the capital sufficiency of both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The legal and regulatory treatment of capital is independent of existing shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure that shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Investec Limited were a single unified enterprise.
Investec plc is regulated by the FSA in the UK and Investec Limited is regulated by the SARB.
In addition, a number of subsidiaries are subject to local regulatory oversight of capital sufficiency by the regulators for the jurisdictions in which they operate.
Philosophy and approach Over recent years, capital adequacy standards for banks have been raised as part of attempts to increase the stability and resilience of the global banking sector.
Investec has always held capital in excess of regulatory requirements and the group intends to ensure that it continues to remain well capitalised.
Accordingly, the group maintains capital adequacy targets of a minimum tier 1 capital ratio of 11% and a total capital adequacy ratio range of 15% to 18%, on a consolidated basis, for Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The determination of target capital is driven by our risk profile, strategy and risk appetite, taking into account regulatory and market factors applicable to the group.
At the most fundamental level, we seek to balance our capital consumption between prudent capitalisation in the context of the groups risk profile and optimisation of shareholder returns.
Our internal economic capital framework is designed to manage and achieve this balance.
The internal capital framework is based on the groups risk identification, review and assessment processes and is used to provide a risk-based approach to capital allocation, performance and structuring of our balance sheet.
The objectives of the internal capital framework are to quantify the minimum capital required to: Maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the boards risk appetite across all risks faced by the group Support a target level of financial strength aligned with a long-term external rating of at least A Provide protection to depositors against losses arising from risks inherent in the business Provide sufficient capital surplus to ensure that the group is able to retain its going concern basis under relatively severe operating conditions Informal discussions with the groups regulators to assist in setting minimum regulatory capital.
The DLC capital committee seeks to optimise the balance sheet such that capital held is in excess of internal capital.
170 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Internal capital performs a critical role in: Investment decision making and pricing that is commensurate with the risk being taken Allocating capital according to the greatest expected marginal risk-based return, and tracking performance on this basis Determining transactional risk-based returns on capital Rewarding performance taking into account the relative levels of risk adopted by forming a basis for the determination of economic value added at a transactional level, and hence the basis for discretionary variable remuneration Comparing risk-based performance across business areas.
The framework has been approved by the board and is managed by the DLC capital committee, which is responsible for oversight of the management of capital on a regulatory and an internal basis.
In order to achieve these objectives, the internal capital framework describes the following approach to the integration of risk and capital management.
The simplified integration of risk and capital management Risk modelling Pricing and Risk Risk Internal and performance identification assessment capital quantification measurement Managed by each Managed by Risk reporting business unit.
group Capital Capital and business as and group Risk Management Group management usual risk departments with oversight by strategy and planning management with oversight by DLC capital ERRF BRCC committee BRCC Scenario testing Risk assessment and identification We review the business annually to map our universe of key risks, which are ultimately reviewed and agreed by the BRCC following an extensive process of engagement with senior management.
This is a bottom-up process initially performed by each business unit across the group.
Key risks are then debated and agreed at senior management level and ultimately by BRCC.
Assessment of the materiality of risks is directly linked to the boards stated risk appetite and approved risk management policies covering all key risks.
Risk reporting As part of standard business practice, key identified risks are monitored by group Risk Management and by Internal Audit to ensure that risks are managed to an acceptable level of risk.
Detailed performance and control metrics of these risks are reported to each ERRF and BRCC meeting, including, where appropriate, the results of scenario testing.
Key risk types that are considered fall within the following: Credit and counterparty risk Traded market risk Equity risk in the banking book Balance sheet liquidity and non-trading interest rate risk Legal risk Operational risk.
Each of these risk categories may consist of a number of specific risks, each of which are analysed in detail and managed through ERRF and BRCC.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 171 Ongoing risk management Risk management continued Role of regulatory capital in capital management On 1 January 2008, we began operating under the Basel II regulatory regime across all regulated entities.
We have adopted the standardised approach under pillar 1 to determine our regulatory minimum capital requirements.
Since the introduction of Basel II, a number of significant amendments have either been introduced or are expected to be introduced over the coming financial year and beyond.
Such changes reflect regulatory objectives around financial stability and affect many areas of our approach to ensuring prudential ongoing management of our risks.
With respect to capital sufficiency, rules will tend to require banks generally to hold greater amounts of higher quality capital which will have impacts on a range of processes within all banks.
We have historically managed our capital to a very high standard and as such we are well placed to meet any new requirements.
Because of this, even after allowing for regulatory changes, the risk appetite of the board and senior management remains unchanged.
Local management within each geography are responsible for compliance with the entitys minimum regulatory requirements, although the allocation of capital supply is controlled by the DLC capital committee.
While consideration of regulatory capital is an important component of our management of capital sufficiency, we do not use regulatory capital as the exclusive driver of capital allocation.
Therefore, while regulatory capital requirements under pillar 1 form the minimum capital for Investec plc, Investec Limited and their various regulated subsidiaries, our capital management framework places emphasis on the internal assessment of capital requirements and is based on a conservative assessment of the underlying risk of the portfolio.
This requirement has been adopted within our approach to pillar 2, of which the internal capital framework constitutes a central role.
Risk modelling and quantification internal capital Internal capital requirements are quantified by analysis of the potential impact of key risks to a degree consistent with our risk appetite.
Internal capital requirements are supported by the board approved risk assessment process described above.
Quantification of all risks are based on analysis of internal data, management expertise and judgement and external benchmarking.
The following risks are included within the internal capital framework and quantified for capital allocation purposes: Credit and counterparty risk, including: Underlying counterparty risk Concentration risk Securitisation risk Traded market risk Equity and property risk held in the banking book Balance sheet risk, including: Liquidity Non-trading interest rate risk Strategic and reputational risks Business risk Operational risk Pension risk UK only Operational risk is considered as an umbrella term and covers a range of independent risks including, but not limited to fraud, litigation, business continuity, outsourcing and out of policy trading.
The specific risks covered are assessed dynamically through constant assessment of the underlying business environment.
Capital management, planning and scenario testing A group capital plan is prepared and maintained to facilitate discussion of the impact of business strategy and market conditions on our capital sufficiency.
This plan is designed to assess capital sufficiency under a range of economic and internal conditions over the medium term three years, with the impact on earnings, asset growth and liquidity considered.
The plan provides the board via the BRCC with an input into strategy and the setting of risk appetite by considering business risks and potential vulnerabilities, capital usage and funding requirements given constraints where these exist.
Stressing the business plans through the capital planning process is an important tool by which the board can gain insight to potential sources of vulnerability of the capital sufficiency of the group by way of market, economic or internal events.
As such, we stress the capital plans based 172 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information on conditions most likely to place us under duress.
The conditions themselves are agreed by the DLC capital committee after consultation with relevant internal and external experts The use of and research.
Such plans are used by management to formulate balance sheet strategy and agree management actions, trigger points and influence the determination of our risk appetite.
internal capital means that all In particular, our capital plans are designed to allow senior management and the board to review: transactions are Changes to capital demand caused by implementation of agreed strategic objectives, considered in the including the creation or acquisition of new businesses, or as a result of the manifestation context of the of one or more of the risks to which we are potentially susceptible impact on the The impact on profitability of current and future strategies allocation of our Required changes to the capital structure capital resources, The impact of implementing a proposed dividend strategy and hence on the basis of their The impact of alternate market or operating conditions on any of the above.
contribution to At a minimum level, each capital plan assesses the impact on our capital adequacy over expected case, upturn and downturn scenarios.
On the basis of the results of this analysis return on risk the DLC capital committee and the BRCC are presented with the potential variability in adjusted internal capital adequacy and are responsible, in consultation with the board, for consideration of the capital.
Pricing and performance measurement The use of internal capital means that all transactions are considered in the context of the impact on the allocation of our capital resources, and hence on the basis of their contribution to return on risk-adjusted internal capital.
This is to ensure that expected returns are sufficient after taking recognition of the inherent risk generated for a given transaction.
This approach allows us to embed risk and capital discipline at the level of deal initiation.
Using expectations of risk-based returns as the basis for pricing and deal acceptance ensures that risk management retains a key role in ensuring that the portfolio is appropriately managed for that risk.
In addition to pricing, returns on internal capital are monitored and relative performance is assessed on this basis.
Assessment of performance in this way is a fundamental consideration used in setting strategy and risk appetite as well as rewarding performance.
These processes have been embedded across the business with the process designed to ensure that risk and capital management form the basis for key decisions at both a group and a transactional level.
Responsibility for oversight for each of these processes ultimately falls to the BRCC.
For an assessment of return on equity and our return on internal capital utilised refer to pages 50 to 52.
Responsibility for the risk and capital management process The Investec plc and Investec Limited boards of directors are ultimately responsible for the respective silos capital management.
The groups senior management take active roles in allocating capital at a transactional level.
At the highest level, the boards have delegated direct responsibility for capital management to the BRCC, and in turn to the DLC capital committee.
These forums have been in place for several years and their roles and responsibilities are discussed on page 202.
In order to manage local capital considerations, Investec plc convenes a separate capital committee on a weekly basis to monitor the capital positions of its various subsidiaries, in particular the businesses in the UK and Australia.
A formally constituted capital management committee also exists in Australia.
Capital adequacy within the Southern African operations is discussed monthly through the regulatory forum, which includes Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Mauritius Limited.
The use of these committees ensures that capital is actively managed from the lowest and most detailed reporting level and cascades up to the ultimate responsible body the BRCC.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 173 Risk management continued The following areas within the group have specific operational capital management responsibilities: Business units, in particular those who conduct their business out of a regulated entity and use large amounts of capital Private Client and Corporate Client : The transactional consultants within the business units consider the capital requirements and the projected return on this capital as part of the deal approval process.
Pricing explicitly takes into account capital usage Management are responsible for translating their detailed individual strategies into a bottom-up capital usage projection for incorporation into the group capital plan.
These plans assist senior management with prioritising the use of our available capital Group Finance: Regulatory r eporting is the responsibility of a dedicated team within group Finance, who are responsible for ensuring regulatory capital requirements are continuously met Financial control, through the capital management function, is responsible for the development and implementation of the internal capital framework and to manage and report on regulatory capital requirements.
The development of the internal capital framework includes the result of analysis performed by Risk Management The capital management function also coordinates, with assistance from business units, the development of the groups capital plan As part of the responsibility for the internal capital framework, the allocation of capital is managed centrally by group Finance As with Risk Management, the group Finance IT division plays a critical role in ensuring the integrity of the ledger and all supporting applications which contribute to the regulatory and business intelligence reporting processes.
Risk management: The credit approval process for each relevant transaction is approved only after review and approval by our central credit risk management team.
Capital usage forms an explicit part of the approval process For exposures which generate market risk, the market risk management team quantify and monitor market risk generated by trading activities.
Traded market risk is closely monitored by our various risk management fora As part of operational risk management, a process managed by centralised operational risk management and embedded risk managers within each business unit identifies, assesses and quantifies key operational risks arising from Investecs operations.
Quantification is then used as the basis for the operational risk capital used held via the internal capital framework Underpinning all risk management functions is their IT Support division, which ensures that all applications used to calculate and report risk are functioning properly and reconcile to underlying source systems.
Board and group executive: The board has ultimate responsibility for the oversight of day-to-day risk management, capital management and ensuring that both risk and capital are managed commensurate with our strategy and risk appetite.
This responsibility is mandated to BRCC The BRCC has delegated management of capital to the DLC capital committee and risk management to ERRF.
Regulatory considerations capital management The regulation and supervision of financial institutions continues to undergo significant change in response to the global financial crisis.
Changes to rules defining eligibility of qualifying capital and the risk weighting of asset classes proposed under the so-called Basel III and capital requirement directive amendments pose the largest potential changes to the groups balance sheet management priorities.
These guidelines have yet to be implemented into law within the groups operating jurisdictions, and therefore remain subject to refinement and change.
In addition to Basel III there are a number of sources of potential regulatory change that may affect our capital sufficiency and balance sheet management functions, each of which are closely monitored.
The DLC capital committee is responsible for ensuring that the impact of any regulatory change is analysed, understood and prepared for.
To allow the committee to carry out this function, the groups regulatory and capital management teams closely monitor regulatory developments and regularly present to the committee on latest developments.
As part of any assessment the committee is provided with analysis showing the groups capital sufficiency taking into account the most up-to-date interpretation of those changes.
In addition, regular sessions with the board are held to ensure that members are kept up to date with the most salient changes and their impact on the group and its subsidiaries.
Capital disclosures in terms of Basel II The tables that follow provide information as required in terms of Basel II.
174 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Accounting and regulatory treatment of group subsidiaries Investec plc and Investec Limited are the two listed holding companies in terms of the DLC structure.
Investec Bank plc IBP and Investec Bank Limited IBL are the main banking subsidiaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL is a subsidiary of IBP.
The regulatory treatment of the groups principal subsidiaries and associates is set out below: Investec plc Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the Investec plc group Bank controlling company Subject to Yes UK None Investec plc consolidated supervision Investec 1 Limited Subject to 100% Yes UK None consolidated supervision Regulated subsidiaries Banking and securities trading Investec Capital Asia Limited Hong Kong 100% Yes Hong Kong Subject to regulatory rules Securities and Futures Commission Hero Nominees Limited Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Financial Services Commission Investec Bank Australia Australian 100% Yes Australia Subject to regulatory rules Limited Prudential Regulation Authority ASIC AUSTRAC Investec Bank plc FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Bank Channel Guernsey Financial 100% Yes Guernsey and Subject to regulatory rules Islands Limited Services Jersey Commission Jersey Financial Services Commission Investec Bank Switzerland Swiss Financial 100% Yes Switzerland Subject to regulatory rules AG Market Supervisory Authority Investec Trust Guernsey Guernsey Financial 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Limited Services Commission Investec Trust Jersey Jersey Financial 100% Yes Jersey Subject to regulatory rules Limited Services Commission Investec Trust Switzerland Association Roman 100% Yes Switzerland Subject to regulatory rules S. A. des Intermediaries Financiers Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 175 Risk management continued Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the Investec plc group Regulated subsidiaries continued Investec Securities US LLC Securities and 100% Yes USA Subject to regulatory rules Exchange Commission and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Kensington Mortgage FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Company Limited Kensington Personal Loans FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited NUA Homeloans Limited The Financial 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Regulator of Ireland NUA Mortgages Limited The Financial 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Regulator of Ireland Start Mortgages Limited The Financial 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Regulator of Ireland Investec Wealth & Investment FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited Investec Wealth & Investment FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Trustees Limited Hargreave Hale Limited FSA 35% ProporUK Subject to regulatory rules tionately consolidated Evolution Securities Limited FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Darwin Strategic Limited FSA 52% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Williams fide Bro Limited FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules WDB Asset Management FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited WDB Private Investment FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Management Limited Asset Management Investec Asset Management FSA, Australian 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited Securities Investment Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission Investec Asset Management FSA, Securities 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules US Limited and Exchange Commission Investec Fund Managers FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited Investec Asset Management Hong Kong 100% Yes Hong Kong Subject to regulatory rules Asia Limited Securities and Futures Commission Investec Asset Management Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Guernsey Limited Financial Services Commission 176 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the Investec plc group Asset Management continued Investec Asset Management The Financial 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Ireland Limited Regulator of Ireland Investec Asset Management Taiwan Financial 100% Yes Taiwan Subject to regulatory rules Taiwan Limited Supervisory Commission Investec Asset Management Australian Securities 100% Yes Australia Subject to regulatory rules Australia Pty Limited and Investment Commission Investec Africa Frontier Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Private Equity fund GP Financial Services Limited Commission Not regulated subject to consolidated Unregulated subsidiaries supervision Investec Holding Company 100% Yes UK None Limited Investec Group UK plc 100% Yes UK None Investec Asset Finance plc 100% Yes UK None Leasedirect Finance Limited 75% Yes UK None Investec Finance plc 100% Yes UK None Investec Group Investments 100% Yes UK None UK Limited Investec Ireland Limited 100% Yes Ireland None Investec Trust Holdings AG 100% Yes Switzerland None Kensington Group plc 100% Yes UK None Kensington Mortgages 100% Yes UK None Limited Newbury Park Mortgage 100% Yes UK None Funding Limited St Jamess Park Mortgage 100% Yes UK None Funding Limited Investec Experien Pty Limited 100% Yes Australia None Guinness Mahon & Co 100% Yes UK None Limited Evolution Group plc 100% Yes UK None Investec Limited Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major impediments on the Entities that transfer of funds and % are given a regulatory capital within Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of the Investec Limited interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation group Bank controlling company Investec Limited SARB 100% Yes SA None Regulated subsidiaries banking and securities trading Investec Bank Limited SARB 100% Yes SA None Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 177 Risk management continued Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major impediments on the Entities that transfer of funds and % are given a regulatory capital within Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of the Investec Limited interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation group Regulated subsidiaries banking and securities trading continued Investec Bank Mauritius Bank of Mauritius 100% Yes Mauritius None Limited Investec Securities Limited JSE, FSB, BESA, 100% Yes SA None SAFEX Asset Management Investec Asset Management 100% Yes SA None Holdings Pty Limited Investec Asset Management FSB SAFEX 100% Yes SA None Pty Limited Investec Fund Managers SA FSB SAFEX 100% Yes SA None RF Pty Limited Insurance Investec Employee Benefits FSB 100% Deconsolidated SA None Holdings Pty Limited Investec Employee Benefits FSB 100% Deconsolidated SA None Limited Investec Assurance Limited FSB and Long-Term 100% Deconsolidated SA None Insurance Act Not regulated subject to consolidated Unregulated subsidiaries supervision Reichmans Holdings Limited 100% Yes SA None AEL Investment Holdings 100% Yes SA None Pty Limited Investpref Limited 100% Yes SA None KWJ Investments Pty 100% Yes SA None Limited Securities Equities Pty 100% Yes SA None Limited Sechold Finance Services 100% Yes SA None Pty Limited Investec Personal Financial 100% Yes SA None Services Pty Limited Fedsure International Limited 100% Yes SA None Investec Share Plan Services 100% Yes SA None Pty Limited Investec International 100% Yes Gibraltar None Holdings Gibraltar Limited World Axis Management Pty 100% Yes SA None Limited Investec Group Data Pty 100% Yes SA None Limited Fuzztique Pty Limited 100% Yes SA None Investec Property Group 100% Yes SA None Holdings Pty Limited There are no current or foreseen material practical or legal impediments to the prompt transfer of capital resources or repayment of liabilities among the parent undertaking and its subsidiary undertakings, other than indicated on the table above.
178 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Capital management and allocation Capital structure Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all capital instruments is provided on pages 351 to 353.
Investec Investec plc IBP IBAL Limited IBL million million A$million Rmillion Rmillion As at 31 March 2012 Regulatory capital Tier 1 Called up share capital 1071 292 29 Share premium 1108 129 10887 13527 Retained income 465 328 297 12532 7807 Treasury shares 42 825 Other reserves 426 194 7 143 6 Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries 164 2 Goodwill and intangible assets 605 379 90 266 96 Primary capital tier 1 1516 1341 492 22471 21273 Less: deductions 23 22 58 248 248 1493 1319 434 22223 21025 Tier 2 capital Aggregate amount 809 649 98 8915 8915 Less: deductions 23 22 7 248 248 786 627 91 8667 8667 Other deductions from tier 1 and tier 2 31 26 Total capital 2248 1920 525 30890 29692 As at 31 March 2011 Regulatory capital Tier 1 Called up share capital 1026 292 27 Share premium 1059 105 10719 11845 Retained income 491 314 364 10903 7067 Treasury shares 11 807 Other reserves 278 196 5 389 250 Minority interests in subsidiaries 170 7 Goodwill and intangible assets 542 381 90 314 108 Primary capital tier 1 1445 1253 561 20890 19081 Less: deductions 24 22 63 297 297 1421 1231 498 20593 18784 Tier 2 capital Aggregate amount 702 577 104 7039 7039 Less: deductions 24 22 6 297 297 678 555 98 6742 6742 Other deductions from tier 1 and tier 2 31 27 Total capital 2068 1759 596 27335 25526 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited.
The information for Investec plc includes the information for IBP and IBAL.
The information for Investec Limited includes the information for IBL.
The information for IBP includes the information for IBAL.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 179 Risk management continued Capital management and allocation continued Capital requirements Investec Investec plc IBP IBAL Limited IBL million million A$million Rmillion Rmillion As at 31 March 2012 Capital requirements 1026 915 389 18276 17504 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 792 731 328 13201 13081 Corporates 233 226 256 7881 7773 Secured on real estate property 247 239 4 1246 1246 Counterparty risk on trading positions 21 21 7 498 498 Short-term claims on institutions and corporates 24 28 2 2041 2033 Retail 76 76 9 314 314 Institutions 14 14 14 1125 1125 Other exposure classes 177 127 36 96 92 Securitisation exposures 22 22 382 382 Equity risk standardised approach 26 26 9 2428 2376 Listed equities 2 2 2 281 229 Unlisted equities 24 24 7 2147 2147 Market risk portfolios subject to internal models approach 56 53 2 463 421 Interest rate 16 16 2 125 125 Foreign exchange 16 13 120 120 Commodities 2 2 Equities 24 24 216 174 Operational risk standardised approach 130 83 50 1802 1244 As at 31 March 2011 Capital requirements 983 872 442 16377 15537 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 769 707 385 11869 11662 Corporates 225 219 295 7541 7369 Secured on real estate property 268 259 6 1166 1166 Counterparty risk on trading positions 18 17 9 395 364 Short-term claims on institutions and corporates 20 19 3 1553 1553 Retail 53 53 11 291 291 Institutions 20 20 12 845 841 Other exposure classes 165 120 49 78 78 Securitisation exposures 23 23 450 450 Equity risk standardised approach 21 21 8 2160 2109 Listed equities 2 2 3 346 295 Unlisted equities 19 19 5 1814 1814 Market risk portfolios subject to internal models approach 52 50 2 129 90 Interest rate 14 14 1 40 40 Foreign exchange 20 20 21 21 Commodities 1 1 1 Equities 18 16 67 28 Operational risk standardised approach 118 71 47 1769 1226 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited.
180 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Capital adequacy Investec Investec plc IBP IBAL Limited IBL As at 31 March 2012 million million A$million Rmillion Rmillion Primary capital tier 1 1516 1341 492 22471 21273 Less: deductions 23 22 58 248 248 1493 1319 434 22223 21025 Tier 2 capital Aggregate amount 809 649 98 8915 8915 Less: deductions 23 22 7 248 248 786 627 91 8667 8667 Other deductions from tier 1 and tier 2 31 26 Total capital 2248 1920 525 30890 29692 Risk-weighted assets banking and trading 12827 11421 2983 192376 184253 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 9910 9130 2516 138965 137704 Corporates 2909 2819 1971 82961 81824 Secured on real estate property 3093 2983 32 13117 13117 Counterparty risk on trading positions 268 264 43 5245 5245 Short-term claims on institutions and corporates 301 355 13 21489 21401 Retail 950 950 68 3301 3301 Institutions 176 176 109 11846 11846 Other exposure classes 2213 1583 280 1006 970 Securitisation exposures 274 274 4017 4017 Equity risk standardised approach 325 321 68 25558 25011 Listed equities 26 25 16 2954 2407 Unlisted equities 299 296 52 22604 22604 Market risk portfolios subject to internal models approach 695 659 16 4867 4424 Interest rate 200 200 14 1314 1314 Foreign exchange 195 159 1266 1266 Commodities 1 1 2 17 17 Equities 299 299 2270 1827 Operational risk standardised approach 1623 1037 383 18969 13097 Capital adequacy ratio 17.5% 16.8% 17.6% 16.1% 16.1% Tier 1 ratio 11.6% 11.5% 14.6% 11.6% 11.4% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information 181 Risk management continued Capital management and allocation continued Capital adequacy continued Investec Limited IBL Investec plc IBP IBAL As at 31 March 2011 million million A$million Rmillion Rmillion Primary capital tier 1 1445 1253 561 20890 19081 Less: deductions 24 22 63 297 297 1421 1231 498 20593 18784 Tier 2 capital Aggregate amount 702 577 104 7039 7039 Less: deductions 24 22 6 297 297 678 555 98 6742 6742 Other deductions from tier 1 and tier 2 31 27 Total capital 2068 1759 596 27335 25526 Risk-weighted assets banking and trading 12292 10911 3387 172370 163537 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 9623 8851 2957 124918 122751 Corporates 2807 2743 2266 79376 77573 Secured on real estate property 3354 3232 44 12270 12270 Counterparty risk on trading positions 219 218 66 4153 3829 Short-term claims on institutions and corporates 256 236 23 16342 16342 Retail 668 668 88 3067 3067 Institutions 253 253 95 8892 8852 Other exposure classes 2066 1501 375 818 818 Securitisation exposures 284 284 4737 4737 Equity risk standardised approach 266 264 57 22740 22204 Listed equities 31 30 20 3646 3110 Unlisted equities 235 234 37 19094 19094 Market risk portfolios subject to internal models approach 649 626 14 1358 943 Interest rate 174 174 8 420 420 Foreign exchange 256 246 1 221 221 Commodities 5 9 9 Equities 219 206 708 293 Operational risk standardised approach 1470 886 359 18617 12902 Capital adequacy ratio 16.8% 16.1% 17.6% 15.9% 15.6% Tier 1 ratio 11.6% 11.3% 14.7% 11.9% 11.5% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited.
182 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Risk, governance and additional information Analysis of rated counterparties in each standardised credit exposure class Investec plc The table below shows the exposure amounts associated with the credit quality steps and relevant risk weightings.
