24 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Risk management Managing corporate, operational and financial risks As described in the Corporate Governance report on page 39 the operations of the Group and the implementation of its objectives and strategy are subject to a number of key risks and uncertainties.
Risks are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis and appropriate procedures are put in place to monitor and, to the extent possible, mitigate these risks.
Were more than one of the risks to occur, the overall impact on the Group may be compounded.
A summary of the key risks affecting the Group and the steps taken to manage these is set out as follows: Risk and description Impact Mitigation The returns and cash proceeds from the Groups early-stage companies can be very uncertain The following risks are typically Portfolio company failure directly impacts the Groups The Groups staff has significant experience in associated with early-stage value and profitability.
sourcing, developing and growing early-stage companies that can have a high technology companies to significant value, including At any time, a large proportion of the Groups portfolio risk of failure: systematic opportunity evaluation and business value may be accounted for by one, or very few, building methodologies.
may not be able to secure later technology companies which could exacerbate the rounds of funding: impact of one or more such company failures.
Members of the Groups senior team often serve as non-executive directors or advisers to portfolio companies may not be able to source or Cash realisations from the Groups portfolio through to help identify and remedy critical issues promptly.
retain appropriately skilled staff: trade sales and IPOs could vary signicantly from year to year.
The Group has spin-out company holdings across competing technologies may different sectors to reduce the impact of a single enter the market: company failure or sector demise.
technology can be materially The Group maintains significant cash balances and seeks unproven and may fail: and to employ a capital efficient process deploying low levels other administrative, taxation of initial capital to enable identication and mitigation of or compliance issue leads to potential failures at the earliest possible stage.
It may be difficult for the Group and its early-stage companies to attract capital The Groups operations are reliant The UKs recession and subsequent limited growth The Group has significant balance sheet and on the capital markets, particularly have had and may continue to have an adverse managed funds capital to deploy in attractive those in the UK.
As the Groups effect on trading conditions in the UK, particularly portfolio opportunities.
operations, and the operations for smaller businesses.
The Group operates a capital markets function of the majority of its portfolio Environment may contribute to a shortage of potential which carries out fundraising mandates for companies, are based in the UK, capital providers for early-stage technology businesses portfolio companies.
the financial and operational such as those that the Group creates.
performance of the Group and The Group maintains close relationships with varied particularly the ability of its The Groups portfolio companies may take longer, or nd co-investors that focus on companies at differing portfolio companies to attract it more difficult, to secure funding for their ongoing stages of development.
development capital is inuenced development and the commercialisation of their IP.
by the general economic climate Failure of companies within the Groups portfolio may and trading conditions in the UK.
make it more difficult for the Group or its spin-out companies to raise additional capital.
Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Risk and description Impact Mitigation Universities or other research-intensive institutions may terminate their partnerships or other collaborative relationships with the Group The Groups business, results Termination or non-renewal of arrangements through Members of the Groups senior team work closely with of operations and prospects failure to perform obligations may result in the loss of partner institutions to ensure that each commercial are at least partially dependent exclusive rights.
relationship is mutually beneficial and productive.
on competitive advantage gained The loss of exclusive rights may limit the Groups ability The Group sources a limited number of opportunities from access to proprietary to secure attractive IP opportunities to commercialise.
opportunity ow through partnerships and other This could potentially have a material adverse effect The Groups track record in IP commercialisation collaborative arrangements on the Groups long-term business, results of can make the Group a partner of choice for other with research-intensive operations, performance and prospects.
institutions, acting as a barrier to entry to competitors.
institutions and commercial The Group continues to consider and, where appropriate, partners, such as Fusion IP enter into new and innovative collaborations.
The Group may lose key personnel or fail to attract and integrate new personnel The area in which the Group operates Loss of key executives and employees of the Group or Senior team succession planning.
is a specialised area and the Group an inability to attract, retain and integrate appropriately The Group carries out regular market comparisons therefore requires highly qualied skilled and experiences staff could have an adverse for staff and executive remuneration.
There effect on the Groups business, competitive advantage, is a risk that the Groups employees financial condition, results of operations and or The Group seeks to offer a balanced incentive package could be approached and solicited future prospects.
considering the mix of salary, benets, performanceby competitors or other technologybased long-term incentives and benets such as exible based companies and organisations.
working or salary sacrifice arrangements.
Given the relatively small size of The long term incentives for all senior staff are in the the Group, its operations are reliant form of shares in the Group and all executives are on a small number of key individuals.
Scaling the team presents an additional potential risk.
The Group encourages staff development and inclusion through coaching and mentoring.
There may be changes to, or impacts from, legislation, government policy or regulation There may be unforeseen changes Changes could result in universities and research University partners are incentivised to protect their IP in, or impacts from, government institutions no longer being able to own, exploit or for exploitation as the partnership agreements share policy, regulation or legislation protect intellectual property.
returns between universities, academic founders and including taxation legislation.
Changes in government policy or legislation may make This could include changes to it unattractive for research academics to participate The Groups university partners also maintain close the terms upon which public in the commercialisation of the IP that they create.
links with the government to manage their position monies are made available with respect to future legislative changes.
to universities and research Changes to tax legislation or the nature of the Groups institutions or their ownership activities, in particular in relation to the substantial The Group utilises professional advisers as appropriate of resulting intellectual property.
shareholder exemption, may adversely affect the Groups to support its monitoring of, and response to changes tax position and accordingly its value and operations.
in, tax or other legislation.
The Group operates an FSA-authorised subsidiary and The Group has internal policies and procedures to regulatory changes or breaches could ultimately lead ensure its compliance with applicable FSA Regulations to reputational damage or fines.
and these are subject to external review.
In addition, through its normal operations the Group is exposed to a number of financial risks, comprising liquidity, market and credit risks.
Further quantitative information is set out in note 2 to the Groups financial statements.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
