JLIF Limited Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 25.
Risks and Risk Management Risk is the potential for events and consequences to occur that can create either threats to success or opportunities for benefit.
Threats to the success of the business could adversely impact the Groups business model, reputation or financial condition.
Alternatively, Risk is the potential for under a well-formed risk management framework, potential risks can be identified in advance and converted into opportunities.
events and consequences The September 2012 Prospectus details all the potential risks that to occur that can create could occur in a PPP project.
In the normal course of business, each asset will have a rigorous risk management framework with a either threats to success comprehensive risk register that is reviewed and updated regularly or opportunities for benefit.
and approved by its board.
The purpose of JLIFs risk management policies and procedures is not to completely eliminate risk, as this is not possible: rather it is to reduce the likelihood of them occurring and to ensure that JLIF is adequately prepared to deal with risks and to minimise their impact should they crystallise.
Risk identification and monitoring Strategic, Economic and External JLIF has a comprehensive risk management framework and Risk Register that assesses a the probability of each identified risk being Currency Risk realised: and b the impact it may have on JLIF.
This is captured in a The Portfolio currently contains four assets that are exposed to rating system assigning a 1, 2 or 3 to the probability and a 1, 2 or 3 to foreign exchange movements: Abbotsford Hospital and Vancouver the magnitude of the impact 1 being the least probable, smallest General Hospital in Canada, the E18 road in Finland and Kromhout impact and 3 being most probable, maximum impact.
As at 31 December 2012 these assets represented 20.4% of the Portfolio Value and by currency as follows: These values are then multiplied together and used to determine the severity of the risk.
The following red-amber-green system below is used: 14.2% Canadian Dollar Red score 6-9 very likely to occur or has occurred in the recent 6.2% Euro past: significant potential impact on the firms stakeholders, This mix of currencies provides JLIF with some diversification across reputation and or profits if risk occurred.
However, the Net Asset Value of these four Amber score 3-5 likely to occur, with a medium reputational projects will vary in Sterling terms due to currency movements.
Over and or impact on profits if the risk did occur.
the longer term, this balance sheet exposure is not intended to be hedged.
Over the shorter term, cash distributions arising from these Green score 1-2 very unlikely to occur, minor impact if risk did projects will be monitored and hedged if appropriate.
should JLIF borrow under its facility, this may be in foreign currency Against each risk is identified any mitigating control or managing as a partial hedge.
factors which can be applied to reduce the likelihood and or severity of that risk.
The risks are then each re-evaluated against that Inflation Risk mitigation to review their severity and steps are put into place to enact The underlying assets in the Portfolio have some exposure to inflation.
Each asset receives a Unitary Payment UP from a public sector The Risk Register is a live document which is updated frequently as client.
This UP is paid every year from the end of construction until new risks emerge and existing risks either increase or decrease in the contract expires, which is typically around 25 years.
The Risk Register is presented to the The UP is calculated to cover the following costs incurred by the SPV JLIF Board at each Board meeting for consideration and approval.
in delivering the contract: The projects have experienced general managers who report to their Financing costs bank debt or bond finance is used to meet the individual boards.
The general managers are based on site and costs of construction and is then repaid over the contract period : maintain relationships between the project, clients, sub-contractors and other partners.
This ensures effective management of potential Operational costs in maintaining the asset.
Operational costs risks, such that the projects can reasonably foresee risks and include both soft services, for example, cleaning and catering, and implement a mitigation strategy, which maintain a robust investment.
hard services, for example, replacing roofs, lifts, glazing etc.
: and JLIFs Risk Register covers five main areas of risk: Cost of equity i. e. the expected return of the SPV shareholders.
Strategic, Economic and External The UP is used by the SPV to pay for operational costs first, then 2.
Operational, Business, Processes and Resourcing senior debt and finally equity.
Asset Specifics Each aspect of the Risk Register is explained in detail below.
Finance costs in the underlying assets are fixed when the contract is Investors have been supportive of JLIFs capital raises since IPO, and signed through the use of interest rate swaps or fixed rate loans : this leads JLIF to believe that its strategy of raising equity capital to therefore, interest rates do not affect the loan exposure on the project.
match an acquisition programme is attractive to investors.
Market In each project company, the forthcoming principal repayments and intelligence researched by JLIF supports the appeal of infrastructure interest costs on the finance are, therefore, fixed and visible from the funds, particularly those that are fully seeded and provide a stable yield, beginning of the contract.
Therefore, it is normal to fix, that is, not and, therefore, is confident of a successful further equity issuance apply inflation to, the portion of the UP related to these costs.
during 2013, should suitable acquisitions opportunities arise.
The operational costs are affected by inflation and this needs to be Competitors reflected in the revenue from the client i. e. the UP.
A proportionate JLIF, in pursuing acquisition opportunities and in seeking to raise amount of the UP corresponding to operational costs is therefore further capital, competes against a number of other listed and private indexed meaning this rises or falls with changes in inflation.
JLIF differentiates itself from its peer group creates a natural hedge, meaning a derivative does not need to be through many factors, including its low costs of operation, entered into in order to mitigate the effect of inflation.
diversification of assets and, therefore, spread of risk across sectors In some cases, the public sector client requests that the whole UP to and geographical markets, its First Offer Agreement with John Laing be index-linked.
In these cases the project company typically uses an and the experience of its management team in delivering value index swap to fix the fixed costs and leaves a proportion of the income enhancements from operational PPP assets.
free of the swap so that it moves with inflation to match the service cost inflation liabilities.
UK Future of Capital Spending The outturn position of fixed versus inflation hedged costs is not With respect to the Companys Investment Policy to hold at least 50% usually perfectly correlated and a small amount of flexibility is of its investments by value within the UK, future UK spending in allowed within the projects to ensure robustness.
infrastructure is a risk to JLIF in the event that it is stopped or the procurement model employed offers such a risk allocation that it would For the UK projects which are linked to RPI or RPIX, the assumed not be possible for JLIF to invest under its current Investment Policy.
This affords JLIF relative protection against inflation, because current inflation is running at a higher rate than The immediate impact on the secondary PPP market in which the assumed in the underlying assets.
Following a consultation by the Company invests would be small as there is sufficient deal flow in the UKs Office for National Statistics at the end of 2012, it was UK market to sustain this space in the short term.
Furthermore, this is determined that the method used to calculate RPI would remain supported by assets continuing to be disposed of by primary participants unchanged and hence there will be no impact on JLIFs contracted seeking to recycle equity to reinvest in new infrastructure projects.
What would be the medium to long term impact on the secondary market is more difficult to determine.
There are a growing number of Acquisitions and Pipeline assets overseas which are procured in a similar way to those in the JLIFs intention is to grow the Portfolio by the acquisition of further UK, thereby lending themselves to natural diversification by UK assets.
There is a risk that acquisitions from either John Laing or dominated infrastructure funds.
other vendors may not materialise.
However, JLIF benefits from the In the UKs Autumn Statement in December 2012, the Chancellor of First Offer Agreement into which it has entered with John Laing giving the Exchequer announced that investment in infrastructure continues it the right of first offer to a significant pipeline of infrastructure to form a crucial part of the countrys strategy for future growth.
A projects, valued by John Laing at in excess of 310 million for the next new model to be used in the procurement of certain projects, PF2, three years.
These are assets that have already reached financial was outlined which is intended to revive a pipeline of PPP projects close and are either currently in their construction phase or are that had previously been delayed or postponed.
Under the new model already operational and are suitable for addition to JLIFs Portfolio.
the public sector will seek to act as a minority equity co-investor and JLIF has acquired 140.8 million of new assets and invested a further introduce funding competitions for equity prior to financial close.
It 14.8m in an existing asset during 2012, all of which complied with will also ensure that procurement is much faster and economically the Companys Investment Policy.
For details of the individual efficient than previously committing that the tendering phase for any acquisitions and how they continue to increase the diversity of the project will not be allowed to exceed 18 months, unless an exemption Portfolio please refer to the Investor Adviser Report and the Portfolio from the Chief Secretary to the Treasury is agreed.
Flexibility will be Value Breakdown sections of this Annual Report.
achieved by removing soft services such as cleaning and catering from project contracts and through the ability to add or remove JLIF actively reviews its acquisition strategy and seeks both to engage elective services once a contract is operational.
Greater risk will be in acquisitions from the wider market as well as from John Laing.
retained by the public sector such as insurance risk and general The increasing number of third party acquisitions has seen JLIFs change in law risk.
However, the private sector will be required to credibility as a buyer increase and has further broadened its furnish equity return information for publication.
The financing diversification of co-shareholders, contractors, clients, sectors and structure of PF2 will be designed to enable access to long term debt geographical markets.
It is JLIFs experience that in 2012 the finance, and in particular, the capital markets.
JLCM believes the secondary market for PPP assets was relatively active and this is announcement of PF2 will have a positive impact on the UK expected to continue in the short to medium term.
This is further infrastructure market unlocking a pipeline of previously postponed evidenced by the entrance of new market participants.
Please refer projects and boosting liquidity.
The impact of PF2 will not be to the Outlook section of the Investment Adviser Report for further immediate for JLIF but JLIF hopes to recognise the positive benefits information on expectations regarding future market activity.
in the near to medium term.
Funding of Acquisitions and Future Equity Raising To achieve JLIFs stated ambition to acquire assets there is a risk that these cannot be funded.
In February 2013, JLIF procured a 150 million multi-currency revolving credit facility to enable it to make acquisitions in between equity raisings.
This facility affords JLIF the flexibility to capitalise on opportunities as and when they arise outside of capital raising periods.
JLIF Limited Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW 27.
Operational, Business, Processing and Resourcing The yield being delivered by the underlying projects is in line with expectations and the Companys intention with regard to dividend JLIF invests in low-risk operational projects: however, there are still payments have improved the September 2012 Prospectus.
These risks are identified in the September 2012 Prospectus.
The majority of underlying assets are managed by JLCM is responsible for the preparation of a fair market valuation of John Laing under management services agreements.
This provides the Portfolio, which is presented to the Directors.
To provide additional JLIF with a management team of experienced professionals who, in assurance to both the Board and JLIFs investors with respect to the most cases, have worked on the project for many years and, in others, valuation, an independent verification exercise is performed by a for periods prior to achievement of financial close.
Such professionals leading accountancy firm and an opinion provided to the Directors.
have excellent relationships with client and co-shareholders: and a Subsequently, the Board approves a valuation of the Portfolio for the detailed understanding of the project, particularly as project managers year ended 31 December 2012. are often based on site.
This day-to-day project involvement provides a foresight rarely afforded by remote management.
Potential issues can Compliance and Legal be mitigated such that the projects are minimally affected, if at all.
JLIF is required to comply with certain London Stock Exchange and In the event that a project should sustain a material issue that affects its Guernsey regulatory requirements.
John Laing Capital Management cash flows, the diversity of the JLIF Portfolio would enable it to mitigate JLCM, as Investment Adviser to JLIF, is regulated by the FSA and such a downside without materially impacting the overall Portfolio.
it is necessary to ensure that both JLIF and JLCM comply with the necessary regulations.
As stated in its Investment Policy, JLIF will focus on projects that have completed construction and are in their operational phase, providing JLIF is well informed as to relevant legislation and guidance that has yield.
Acquiring assets that are still in their construction period would the potential to impact the Company directly or the underlying assets.
be likely to deliver no yield until the project enters its operational Changes in law that affect funds will generally be foreseeable and period.
This is because senior lenders often negotiate into the loan JLIF will have the opportunity to reflect this in its business plan and documents clauses disallowing distributions to be made to accommodate any negative changes as well as designing potential shareholders until construction of the asset has been completed and upside from any advantageous movements in law.
debt has begun to be repaid, although there are some exceptions.
Last year, JLIF reported the introduction of the Bribery Act and the JLIF analyses each potential acquisition on a long term, holistic basis Solvency II directive as being the most recent developments in the to ensure it fits with the existing Portfolio and the growth that JLIF regulatory environment.
As expected, the introduction of the Solvency would like to achieve.
II directive has had no impact on JLIFs business in 2012.
JLIFs Board, as well as its Investment Adviser JLCM, undertakes regular All of the projects in the Portfolio have obligations to provide training to remain current on the requirements of the Bribery Act and operations and maintenance services to maintain the infrastructure its implications for the operation and management of JLIFs business for the length of the concession period.
The project company, in which activities.
JLIF is a shareholder, enters into sub-contracts with experienced facilities management companies to provide these services.
JLIF The Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive AIFMD maintains a diverse range of suppliers to its projects and in this way is remains a current topic in the investment industry.
This is coupled able to manage the potential impact of a failure of any single service with the introduction of Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act provider.
The chart below shows the exposure of the JLIF Portfolio to FATCA.
JLIF is represented in the current discussions on AIFMD 1 each supplier by Portfolio Value.
and is engaging with its advisers on the potential implications of FATCA, the impact of which is not yet fully known.
AIFMD is likely to be FM counterparty exposure chart enacted in the UK in 2013.
JLIF seeks regular advice on potential new 7 legislation and guidance to be best prepared.
2 JLIF supports regulation in the financial services industry and takes 2 compliance issues in earnest.
It is a member of the Association of 1 5 1 1 Investment Companies AIC and the Company Investment Adviser 8 JLCM is regulated by the FSA.
4 1 Asset Specific 2 3 3 JLIFs policy is to only raise new funds in the equity markets when 2 there is a specific investment opportunity imminent with a reasonable 1 1 chance of completing.
This is to minimise the amount of un-invested 1 1 1 1 cash held by JLIF as clearly this is inefficient use of shareholder 1 1 1 funds.
This policy protects against the risk that completion of an asset is delayed or does reach completion at all, either due to issues regarding consents or project specifics issues such as non-compliance with a project document.
To manage this risk further, JLIF ensures that any consents or approvals required under the project documentation are sought by the vendor at an early stage of the sale process to avoid unnecessary Financial delays and to agree a recovery plan with the Operator and The financial position of JLIF is robust and the Company remains continuously review that plan to ensure the project is in a fit state to optimistic for the year ahead and is keen to participate in acquisitions acquire before the longstop date in the sale and purchase agreement.
from both John Laing and third party vendors.
The bank facility affords JLIF further flexibility to grow the Portfolio as and when opportunities arise.
1 It should be noted that for some projects there is more than one supplier of operational and maintenance services and in those instance the value of those projects has been included in the chart more than once.
Johnson Controls Sodexo Amey Seddon Pinnacle Housing Rydon Maintenance Reliance Skanska Lemcon Oy JLIS Serco Hyde Housing Balfour Beatty ISS Mediclean Thales Carillion Sir Robert McAlpine Vinci Interserve NCS Caerphilly SPIE Matthew Hall United House Strukton Relative Exposure by Portfolio valuation
