Principal risks and uncertainties Our performance and prospects may Interruption to product supply Patent invalidity, patent infringement be affected by risks and uncertainties litigation and changes in patent laws relating to our business and operating environment.
Our internal Risk: Risk: controls include a risk management BTG relies on third-party contractors for BTG can be subject to patent challenge process to identify key risks and, the supply of many key materials and at any time.
Challenges can relate to the where possible, manage the risks services, such as filling and freeze-drying validity of BTGs patents or to alleged through systems and processes of end products.
These processes carry infringement by BTG of intellectual and by implementing specific risks of failure and loss of product.
property rights of others, which might mitigation strategies.
Problems at contractors facilities result in litigation costs and or loss of may lead to delays and disruptions in earnings.
BTG might be obliged to sue supplies.
Some materials and services third parties for their infringement of its may be available from one source only patents in order to protect revenue and regulatory requirements make streams.
Failure by BTG to maintain or substitution costly, time-consuming or renew key patents might lead to losses The most significant risks identified commercially unviable.
BTGs polyclonal of earnings and liabilities to licensees or in an annual update of the Groups antibody products rely on serum licensors.
BTG may not be able to secure risk register that could materially produced from our sheep flocks in the necessary intellectual property rights affect the Groups ability to achieve its Australia, which could be subject to in relation to products in development, financial and operating objectives are disease outbreaks or fire.
BTG relies limiting the potential to generate value summarised in this section.
Other risks on its single site in Wales for supply of from these products.
Changes in patent are unknown or deemed less material.
manufactured antibody products, with laws and other intellectual property the consequent possibilities for regulations in territories where BTG or disruption to supplies.
its licensees conduct business that make it more difficult or time-consuming BTG manufactures its own bead and to prosecute patents, or which reduce brachytherapy products at single sites the term of granted patents or periods in Farnham, UK, and Oxford, CT, USA, of market exclusivity protection, could respectively, with the consequent adversely impact the Groups financial possibilities for disruption to supplies.
BTGs patent portfolio is BTG plans to undertake the manufacture currently subject to several challenges.
of PEM at its Farnham site, requiring the establishment of new manufacturing Controls and mitigating actions: facilities to meet the requirements of Dedicated internal resource Good Manufacturing Practice.
This site supplemented by external expertise will require regulatory approval and a monitors patent portfolios, third-party licence to support the commercialisation patent applications and intellectual of PEM.
Any delay in establishing this property rights: development and facility or obtaining the necessary implemention filing, defence and manufacturing licences may result in a enforcement IP strategies: robust delay in the approval of PEM reducing processes in place to automate patent future earning potential.
The continuity renewals: internal controls established of potential PEM revenues will also be to avoid disclosure of patentable subject to single source risk.
material prior to filing patent applications.
Controls and mitigating actions: Rigorous monitoring of suppliers: dual sourcing implemented where practicable: inventories maintained and monitored through sales and operational planning process and production changes implemented where needed to ensure continued product supply: rigorous quality control procedures in place: regular checks made on sheep flock health: disaster recovery plans under regular review.
26 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Patent expiry, competition may reduce Failure to comply with regulations Product liability and other key risks may current revenues may result in product delays, failures, not be capable of being adequately regulatory actions and financial penalties insured Risk: Risk: Risk: BTGs key current royalty-generating The pharmaceutical industry is highly The manufacturing, testing, marketing products are expected to continue to regulated and the Group must comply and sale of BTGs products involve provide royalty revenues until their with a broad range of regulations relating significant product liability and business patents or licence agreements expire.
to the development, approval, interruption risks.
As the developer, Any unforeseen patent loss, supply, manufacturing and marketing of its manufacturer and or seller of certain safety or compliance issues with these products.
This is particularly true in the products, BTG may be held liable for products could result in premature US, from which the Group derives most death or personal injury to persons cessation of the revenues.
of its revenues and where the Group has receiving the products during established its own sales and marketing development or after the product is BTG earns revenues from sales of its operations.
acute care products CroFab, DigiFab relating to quality assurance apply to and Voraxaze.
CroFabis patent Controls and mitigating actions: the Groups manufacture of products, protected but DigiFaband BTG maintains product liability insurance particularly in the pharmaceutical area.
Voraxazehave no patent protection and operates quality systems relating Regulatory regimes are complex and at this time: CroFab and DigiFab to the manufacture of its products dynamic, and alterations to the are protected by significant know-how and a pharmacovigilance system to regulations may result in delays in and complex manufacturing processes monitor safety events arising with product development, approval or and BTG expects revenues to continue respect to products sold.
Ensuring compliance with regardless of patent protection.
However, be commercially viable to adequately such regulations necessitates allocation future competition cannot be ruled out insure against the occurrence of of significant financial and operating and competing products could materially other key risks.
adversely impact BTGs financial results.
Failure to comply with certain rules, laws Instituto Bioclon have announced the and regulations may result in criminal completion of a Phase III clinical trial of a and civil proceedings against the Group.
potential competitor product to CroFab.
Significant breaches could result in large financial penalties, which could BTG also earns revenues from sales materially adversely impact the Groups of its bead and brachytherapy products, financial performance and prospects.
all of which are subject to competition.
Moreover, failure by BTG or a BTG While these medical devices benefit from partner company to comply with patent protection certain patents are regulations may result in a product subject to challenge.
being withdrawn from the market with a subsequent loss of revenues.
Controls and mitigating actions: New royalty streams may emerge.
Controls and mitigating actions: For example, regulatory approval A Code of Conduct has been in the US and elsewhere of Zytiga established, supported by a mandatory as a treatment for men with advanced training programme: robust compliance prostate cancer has resulted in new systems are in place to ensure sales revenues during 2011 12: additional and marketing activities comply future royalty streams would result if with regulations in the US and other alemtuzumab is approved to treat territories: standard operating multiple sclerosis and from AZD9773 procedures are in place to ensure if approved to treat severe sepsis.
BTG compliance with good clinical and acquired US commercial rights to uridine manufacturing practice and to manage triacetate from Wellstat Therapeutics pharmacovigilance requirements, Corporation in July 2011, and EU named monitored through quality control patient supply rights in May 2012 which systems.
Internal expertise is may lead to a new revenue stream if maintained to manage these risks.
Mitigations with respect to the bead products include product development, geographic expansion, appropriate IP lifecycle management and the conduct of clinical studies to expand their indicated uses and sales.
27 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties Inability to access new products and The success of development activities programmes may limit and market acceptance is uncertain future growth Risk: Risk: BTG conducts limited fundamental The development of medical products is research to generate its own inherently uncertain and the timelines development programmes but instead and costs to approval may vary seeks to acquire new products and significantly from budget or expectation.
late-stage development programmes The product may not demonstrate the from other organisations.
There is expected safety and efficacy benefits significant competition from other and may not be approved by regulatory companies also seeking to acquire bodies, such as the US Food and Drug new products and programmes who Administration.
Manufacturing may have greater financial resources difficulties or patent litigation may cause and sales and marketing reach than programmes to be delayed or halted or BTG.
BTG may not be able to acquire products withdrawn.
Failure of a latesuitable products and programmes, stage programme such as PEM would which will materially adversely impact materially adversely impact the Groups the Groups financial future performance financial prospects.
Regulatory approval and growth prospects.
requirements may change, resulting in further uncertainty.
Even if a product is Controls and mitigating actions: approved that is no assurance of Dedicated product acquisition team commercial success.
in place: strategy is to focus on niche opportunities that leverage BTGs US Controls and mitigating actions: commercial operations and those that Experienced development team in may be a better fit with BTG than with place: focus is on acquiring late-stage other organisations.
Development teams programmes that have already working to develop follow-on products demonstrated proof of concept and from existing technology platforms potentially have lower-risk development such as embolisation beads.
pathways: development programmes monitored to identify risks and challenges and recommend mitigating and corrective actions.
Certain products are licensed to other companies who may have greater resources to support product development.
Regulatory team in place, consultation undertaken with applicable regulatory authorities.
28 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Competition may erode revenues Pricing and reimbursement pressures Currency and treasury effects can are increasing adversely impact results Risk: Risk: Risk: The Group operates in competitive There is increasing pressure on Many of BTGs revenues and receipts markets.
The products on which BTG healthcare budgets causing payers are denominated in US dollars and currently earns revenues, or from which to demand increasing treatment and movements in foreign exchange rates it anticipates earning revenues once on economic benefits before agreeing to could adversely impact results.
the market, face competition from other reimburse product suppliers at all or Controls and mitigating actions: products that are already approved or in at appropriate prices.
In March 2010, BTG actively manages its exchange development.
Competing products may healthcare reform legislation was risks where feasible, using short-term have superior efficacy and side effect adopted in the US, requiring hedging transactions guided by market profiles, cost less to produce or be manufacturers to increase the rebates expectations and economic forecasts offered at a lower price than BTGs or discounts they give on products to seek to match actual receipts and products: such competition could reimbursed or paid for by public payers payments over a rolling 12-month period materially adversely impact Group including Medicaid and Medicare.
This policy can result revenues.
purpose of the reform is to increase in both exchange gains and losses but healthcare coverage in the US Controls and mitigating actions: provides a level of certainty over population and to manage treatment BTG focuses on niche opportunities cash receipts.
of chronic conditions efficiently and addressing specialist markets where cost effectively.
Management of acute there is limited competition and high conditions is generally not affected.
barriers to entry: CroFaband BTGs acute care and implantable DigiFabhave no current competitors: oncology products treat serious medical both products are complex to conditions and the impact of existing manufacture.
We differentiate the healthcare reform on current Group embolisation and drug-eluting bead revenues is not expected to be material products from competitors by supporting to the Groups financial position.
a range of clinical studies to generate Approval and commencement of sales in safety and efficacy data to expand their the US of PEM, a potential treatment for indicated uses.
varicose veins, may result in the Group increasing the discounts or rebates given on its other reimbursed products in the US.
If BTG acquires products in future that are more impacted by healthcare reforms, revenue expectations could be lower.
Failure of a product to qualify for government or health insurance reimbursement or the failure to achieve an appropriate sales price could adversely impact the Groups financial performance.
Future healthcare reforms may become more onerous and may have a negative impact on Group revenues.
Controls and mitigating actions: BTG focuses primarily on niche products that address serious unmet needs: early on in a products development, the Group conducts pricing and reimbursement studies: the assessments of potential new products will include an assessment of healthcare reforms on pricing and reimbursement.
29 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review
