Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board continues to identify, evaluate and manage the risks which the Group and the wider sector face.
The risks to which the Group is exposed at any point in time in pursuing its strategic objectives cover a wide range of factors: competition, legislative, fiscal, political, financial, economic, social, reputational and operational.
Each could impact EBITDA, operating profits, net assets and liquidity.
The principal risks and uncertainties which are specific to Bumi at this point in time, together with the actions that management is taking to mitigate each, are set out below.
The Board continues to pay particular attention to the effectiveness of managements mitigating actions and progress is monitored in each area.
Risk Context Impact Mitigation Delivery of Strategy Failure to secure a timely The future direction of the Group Failure to effect separation would The Company is currently separation from the Bakrie is based on the Proposed leave the Group with a sizeable preparing a shareholder circular Group and PT Bumi.
investment in PT Bumi over to convene a general meeting at which it is unable to exert which the transaction in respect significant influence.
of which heads of terms were agreed and announced on 12 February 2013 will be put to a shareholder vote.
Failure to implement a fully Fully effective governance is an In the absence of enhanced The Group in March 2013 effective governance framework essential underpinning for governance, Bumi would remain replaced the senior management across the Group.
exposed to controls over its team and established a new Indonesian operations not being Group executive committee under fully effective.
Nick von Schirnding, which includes the new President Director at PT Berau, Eko Budianto.
Coal Price Sustained reduced coal prices.
The demand and price for coal is A sustained reduction in coal The Group life of mine planning largely determined by global prices can result in material and processes consider coal price supply and demand and in turn, adverse movement in the Groups forecasts, operating costs, market the strength of the global operating results, asset values, demand and production capacity economic environment and its revenues and cash flows.
It may and plans and activities are impact on Asia, particularly also compromise the ability of the adjusted as far as possible to China.
Group to deliver growth in future optimise returns.
years as expansion projects may not be viable at lower prices.
Cost Reduction Failure to reduce both A key element of the Groups If low coal prices are sustained, As part of its on going operational costs and capital strategy is to optimise both the Group will be forced to cut programme to reduce costs, the expenditure which is necessary operational and capital costs further to increase Group has already achieved to meet the Groups strategic expenditure.
significant gains in certain areas, objective of increasing e. g. reducing fuel costs.
It is also reviewing its capital expenditure plans to see where savings can be made and looking at efficiency gains within the mining process.
Failure to effectively manage The Group relies extensively on Failure to manage contractors Management within the mining mining contractors or to identify contractors for all its mining effectively may result in increased operations has a track record of contractors facing financial operations operational costs and reduced managing mining contractors and hardship and who may not profitability.
works closely with them on a day survive these recessionary times to day basis so that performance resulting in cost inefficiencies or issues can be addressed as soon disruption to the business.
In 2012 a newly formed contractor management team reviewed procedures for managing contractors.
As a result management is now able to award higher or lower volumes of work to contractors based on achievement of their operational KPIs, HSE record and fuel consumption.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Context Impact Mitigation Cost Reduction continued Failure to deliver key projects on Of necessity, the Group Failure to meet project delivery The Group has a track record of time and to budget.
undertakes capital projects to targets, will slow growth and may delivering large capital projects.
enable it to deliver its growth result in increased capital outlay, strategy.
reduced profitability and delays in realising other benefits.
Location Risk The Groups businesses may be The Group has no control over Potential impacts include The Group maintains a dialogue affected by political and legal political and legal changes.
It expropriation of assets, further with central and local developments in Indonesia, recognises that its various imposition of royalties or taxation government, and responds to including changes to fiscal and licences to operate are targeted at mining companies, developments through annual regulatory regimes.
Failure to dependent on a number of licences not being renewed and mine planning activities.
This maintain effective relationships factors, including compliance with requirements for local ownership dialogue is coordinated through with local government and regulations and local government or beneficiation.
community leaders, which are and the community relationships.
relationships can also result in In addition the Group maintains a also important for business civil unrest and the termination of full community development continuity, could lead to mining permits and leases.
programme, working closely with disruption in mining operations.
local government to meet the needs of its local communities.
Compliance Failure to meet expectations and Achievement of a safe operating Reputational and financial A review of existing safety standards of a UK plc across environment is a legal damage may arise if standards practices at mine operations HSEC areas which go beyond requirement and responsibility.
commenced in 2012 leading to the practices generally accepted Within contracted operations this the development of an Incidents affecting the safety of in Indonesia.
depends to a large extent on the improvement programme employees and contractors may competency of, and controls over, targeted initially at significant risk also lead to lost production.
Failure to obtain the necessary Environmental protection is an Delays to operations and There is a dedicated environment environmental permits from increasing area of focus under production targets through mining team that monitors compliance local, provincial and central Indonesian legislation and is permits being deferred or with local legislation and government or permits are subject to global scrutiny.
withdrawn and reputational and regulations.
withheld or withdrawn due to the financial consequences from In late 2012 the Group started to Groups failure to achieve perceived or actual environmental develop an approach to enhance compliance with necessary damage.
Failure to comply with the In addition to operating in a Reputational, legal and financial The development and Groups Code of Conduct country where the risk of consequences due to nonimplementation of UK governance including failure to prevent acts corruption is high as indicated by compliance with Group policies has been a priority of the Board of fraud, bribery and corruption indices prepared by independent and UK anti-bribery and which has developed key policies including those that are related NGOs, the standards set by the corruption legislation.
and procedures covering party in nature.
Board are higher than those important areas like anti-bribery found in its Indonesian and corruption.
The new PT subsidiaries in 2012, when Berau management team, instances of non-compliance appointed in 2013, is supportive were identified.
of the Groups policies and is now working to fully implement these into the business.
Employees Inability to recruit, develop or Local operations are subject to Possible increased costs, Local human resources teams retain appropriate skills for the competition for skilled labour.
interruptions to existing have arrangements in place to Group.
Recruitment and retention can be operations and delay in new manage recruitment and retention challenging given the location of projects arising from a shortage and these processes continued to the Groups operations.
of employees, the Groups operate effectively in 2012. employees having inadequate Local operations maintain an skills or due to industrial disputes.
active relationship with local labour unions.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 26 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Context Impact Mitigation Financial Risk Failure to manage financial The Group carries significant Inability to execute strategy from The Group has significant cash arrangements and operating debt and requires cash for large not meeting short term financial reserves to meet short and cash flows.
medium term liquidity requirements appropriate capital structure to and completed a $500m bond support growth is an important issue in March 2012. element of the Groups strategy.
Nevertheless it performs regular cash flow forecasting, based on the Groups strategy and mine plans.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 27
