Risk management and internal controls report The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight of the risk management process Jupiter Fund Management plc Board Executive Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee Committee Committee Committee Treating Balance Sheet Product Risk Operations Customers Management Development Committee Committee Fairly Committee Committee Committee Board Committees composed of non-executive Directors of Jupiter Fund Management plc.
Risk management framework The Board has delegated authority for all aspects of executive The Board has ultimate responsibility for the risk strategy of the management to the Group Chief Executive.
He is assisted by the Group and for determining an appropriate risk appetite, as well as Executive Committee, which has operational responsibilities for the tolerance levels, within which the Group must operate.
By developing the business in accordance with the strategy and dening these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of and, where objectives set by the Board.
To assist with its oversight of risk, the appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks that may Committee has formed an executive Risk Committee chaired by the have a material impact on the Group.
The Board has established a committee structure to assist in the The Risk Committee is attended by all members of the Executive discharge of its responsibilities, namely the Audit, Remuneration Committee, together with the Heads of Compliance, Operational and Nomination Committees.
Details of each of these Board Risk and Investment Risk and is responsible for the oversight of Committees and the members, roles and activities thereof are strategic, operational, investment and counterparty risks within detailed in separate reports within this Annual Report.
Each a coherent and manageable structure.
Committee reports to, and has terms of reference approved by the Board.
The minutes of the Committee meetings, where appropriate, are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board.
28 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Governance Executive committee structure Product Development Committee A description of each of the individual executive committees The purpose of the Committee is to ensure that the proposals involved in the oversight of risk is set out below.
submitted for approval have been adequately considered to enable a decision in principle to proceed or not proceed, as the case may be.
Executive Committee TCF is an integral part of the Committees deliberations in respect of The purpose of the Committee is to provide an efficient forum for sign off, implementation and post launch analysis.
This applies to all discussion and decision making regarding the development of the of Jupiters product range, including UK unit trusts, SICAVs and business in accordance with the strategy and objectives set by the investment companies.
The minutes from this meeting are made available to the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets weekly, with one Operations Committee meeting every fortnight having a formal agenda and minutes.
The The purpose of the Committee is to provide a forum through which following committees report to the Executive Committee: senior operational management from across the business can discuss operational issues and changes to the business.
The Committee Risk Committee considers any significant errors occurring during the year and any Balance Sheet Management Committee pertinent risk assessment findings from the Operational Risk Product Development Committee function.
The Committee reviews Health & Safety risks and practices Operations Committee and any incidents that have occurred.
TCF Committee TCF Committee Risk Committee Through its sub-committees, the Committee seeks to ensure that The Committee provides support to the Executive Committee on funds managed by the Group and services provided to private clients the establishment, implementation and maintenance of adequate are operated and undertaken in a manner consistent with TCF risk management policies and procedures.
In particular, it advises the obligations.
The TCF Funds sub-committee considers the extent to Executive Committee on: which product launches and enhancements have met the Groups TCF obligations.
It meets quarterly and considers available the appropriate level of risk to be tolerated by the Group management information including performance, target audience, risk appetite tolerance : distribution approach, market share analysis, subscription and the management of risks within the determined risk tolerances: redemption patterns, administrative statistics and complaint data to and consider whether the products continue to meet the general needs the effectiveness of risk management processes across the of the target audience they were designed for, and whether the business, including compliance with such policies and any performance is in line with what we expected and communicated to remedial action, where required.
distributors at the time of sale.
The TCF Clients sub-committee considers the private client reporting arrangements to ensure that The Committee reviews the Groups primary risk exposures with the services being provided to private clients are consistent with TCF consideration of impact and likelihood assessments and the objectives and that poor customer outcomes are being avoided.
It effectiveness of existing controls in the context of the Boards meets quarterly and receives a pre-determined suite of reports and tolerance thresholds and ensures that the governance arrangements management information.
within the Group are effective in the mitigation of risk.
Approach to risk The scope of the Committees remit encompasses risk control issues The Board determines the appropriate tolerance approach to risks facing the Group in relation to any aspects of risk as categorised in within which the Group must operate.
Risk tolerances are the Groups the Group's risk management framework, as described further below.
actual boundaries and limits through which the business monitors The Risk Committee is supported in its role by a number of focused and, if appropriate, escalates concerns to the Board.
Risks and our sub-committees, namely the Portfolio Review, Monitoring and attitude to them are considered and monitored in six categories: Conicts Committees and the Counterparty Review Group.
Str ategic risk: the risk that the Group is unable to meet its The Risk Committee is supported by the Operational Risk strategic objectives due to matters inherent in the nature department, which provides assurance to internal and external of our business or the markets in which we operate: stakeholders on the Groups risk management activities.
Oper ational risk: the risk of loss caused by weaknesses or failures independent function that supports and challenges the business in the Groups systems and controls, related to people, systems on their assessment of risks and controls.
These include risks arising from failing to properly manage key outsourced relationships: Balance Sheet Management Committee 3.
Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group may be unable to meet The Balance Sheet Management Committee provides support to the its financial obligations: Executive Committee on the establishment, implementation and 4.
Capital risk: the risk tha t the Group may lack sufficient capital maintenance of adequate balance sheet management policies and to be able to continue to operate as a going concern: procedures.
It advises the Executive Committee, on both a current and forecast basis, on the areas under its remit, as well as reviewing the risk and control issues facing the Group in those areas.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 29 Risk management and internal controls report continued 5.
Counterparty credit risk: the risk of loss caused by the corporate The Board is also of the view that: failure of one of the trade, prime brokerage or treasury counterparties to which the Group may be exposed, or by a necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any custodial institution with which the Group has a relationship: significant failings identied as part of the ongoing risk and management process: and 6.
Regulatory reputational risk: the risk of censure due to the no significant weaknesses were identied during the year.
Groups failure to meet its regulatory obligations, which may lead to reputational damage, a monetary ne or, ultimately, Key contracts the withdrawal of its licence to carry on business.
"Jupiter has three material outsourced relationships with third-party organisations: The Northern Trust Company ""Northern Trust"", Depending on the risk category, the monitoring of these internally International Financial Data Services ""IFDS"" and HSBC Securities will be owned by the Risk Committee or the Balance Sheet Services ""HSBC""."
If the latter has any concerns, these will then be considered by the Risk Committee as well.
HSBC provides services relating to trading, reconciliation, reporting and record keeping, foreign exchange, corporate action and income Internal control entitlement activities.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only IFDS provides a number of services, including dealing and registration reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial processing, box management, agent and distributor services, mis-statement or loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
enquiries handling, client accounting and reconciliations, distribution processing and tax and regulatory reporting.
The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, carried out its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during Northern Trust provides custody and transfer agency services.
2012, including operational, financial, and compliance controls, using the following to support its conclusion: The activities of these third parties are dened in service level agreements and the organisations are closely monitored to ensure reports from the Compliance Director on the control environment that service delivery standards are met.
within the Group, highlighting any major instances of noncompliance and the actions being taken to remedy such nonAdditionally, the Group entered into a facilities agreement with The compliance: Royal Bank of Scotland plc on 17 March 2007.
Further details of this reports provided by the Operational Risk function and Risk agreement can be found in the loans and borrowings note in the Committee setting out the key risks faced by the Group and, financial statements.
where appropriate, quantifying these exposures and the corresponding control mitigation in place within the Group: Assurance process an annual report from the Compliance Director on the The control environment in place across the Group is reviewed effectiveness of the risk assurance arrangements in place within during the course of a year by one or more of the three assurance the Group: functions Compliance, Operational Risk and Internal Audit and a review of the respective roles of the Board, Audit and Executive assurance reports provided to senior management, the Board and Risk Committees in relation to risk and assurance: Audit Committee as appropriate.
reports from the Group General Counsel outlining the Groups legal and litigation risks: On an annual basis, Jupiter commissions the external audit rm to a report outlining the design and operating effectiveness of the perform testing of integrity of aspects of the Group-wide control Group's '3 lines of defence' model and the manner in which the environment.
"Jupiter has adopted the International Standard on assurance functions and risk committees interact with each other Assurance Engagements ""ISAE"" 3402 together with AAF 01 06 as in supporting the risk management framework: recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England reports from the Internal Audit function on key control and and Wales in the November 2010 technical release of AAF 01 06. governance issues arising from their review programme: The results of this testing, including any exceptions identied, are an annual report from the MLRO on the anti-money laundering made available to our institutional and investment company clients."
and fraud prevention financial crime measures in place within the Group: and a report from an external audit rm on the internal control framework in place within the Group AAF01 06.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks that: was in place for the year ended 31 December 2012 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: is regularly reviewed by the Board: and complies with the Financial Reporting Councils revised guidance for Directors on internal control Turnbull.
30 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
