Principal risks and mitigations The robust management of risk is fundamental to Jupiters culture Risk Sustained underperformance There is a risk that our clients portfolios will not meet their investment objectives due to underperformance.
Investment outperformance Failure to retain key staff We are a human capital business and our staff are a significant component of successfully executing our strategy.
significant mandate breach Our funds are managed in accordance with investment mandates and restrictions agreed with our clients.
Failure to adhere to these mandates would reect a poor level of client service and may jeopardise relationships with our clients.
Regulatory non-compliance A significant regulatory investigation or action against the rm could have a detrimental effect on our reputation and business.
Changes in distribution and product trends The risks reect potential future changes in our fee structures, or in the appetite of clients to invest in our products.
Effective distribution Operational error or fraud A material error in the execution of a key business process, or a fraud being successfully carried out against us or our clients.
efficient operations Failure of third party supplier The failure of a provider to which we have outsourced key business processing activities may lead to our not delivering the required level of service to our clients and shareholders or fullling our regulatory obligations.
Business continuity incident Business operations, systems and processes are liable to disruption from re, power loss, systems failure or external events.
Counterparty failure The failure of a trading or depository counterparty with which we have a relationship.
12 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review Impact Mitigation Controls Poor investment performance may lead Our investment process seeks to meet investment targets within clearly stated risk to our products being uncompetitive, parameters.
We use tools and governance principles within our investment risk framework resulting in a decline in Group AUM and we review performance that lies outside expectations.
Fund performance is monitored and revenues.
as part of the investment performance risk management process and is formally overseen by a portfolio review committee which meets quarterly.
The departure of a high prole fund We believe that high levels of employee engagement and equity ownership drive business manager could lead to a significant level outperformance and we strive to ensure we have an attractive working environment and of redemptions from their funds, having a competitive remuneration structure.
We also develop, monitor and maintain succession a material impact on our levels of AUM planning for all key roles.
If investments are made or managed All Jupiter's portfolios are monitored on an ongoing basis by our Compliance and Portfolio in breach of an investment mandate, Analytics departments, with functionality coded into the order management system to we may be required to unwind the relevant allow the pre and post trade checking of investment activity.
Portfolios are subject to peer transactions and could be liable for any reviews and periodic valuation checks, and undergo formal scrutiny at the Portfolio Risk losses suffered by an affected party in Committee in addition to being subject to review by trustees and or administrators.
Regulatory censure and the related adverse Our Compliance department conducts a robust programme of internal monitoring publicity may lead to a loss of confidence to ensure that regulatory controls are adhered to.
Our risk governance structure and by our clients as well as having a negative whistleblowing policy are designed to ensure that any regulatory issues can be escalated impact on our ability to generate to senior management in an open and timely way, ensuring the maximum appropriate new business.
amount of regulatory protection for clients.
Our ability to generate ows may be We undertake ongoing analysis of the markets in which we operate in order to ensure jeopardised by fundamental changes in that we maintain a diverse suite of products that continue to appeal to our existing and distribution patterns or by a sustained potential future customers.
A well-dened product development process enables us to market appetite for products Jupiter deliver new products or enhancements to target client groups in a timely and efficient does not offer.
A significant error or successful fraud may We rely on efficient and well-controlled processes.
The potential impact and likelihood lead to negative financial impact on the of processes failing and operational risks including fraud materialising is assessed by Group due to the cost of redressing each operational area on a regular basis.
Where these likelihoods are felt to be outside any issues.
our appetite for risk, management actions and or control improvements are identied in order to bring each potential risk back to within acceptable levels.
Our relationships with key stakeholders All third parties to whom we outsource material aspects of our business are subject may be jeopardised in the event of our to ongoing oversight, providing assurance that they are of the required standard.
providing an inadequate level of service, resulting in the loss of clients or regulatory financial censure.
Inability to carry out our business activities Continuity and business resumption planning is in place across our business in support of all of our key activities.
Alternative premises, including a dedicated ofce suite equipped with all key portfolio management and support systems, should our normal business systems or premises become unavailable.
The loss of or inability to access material We seek to diversify our exposures across different counterparties and actively monitor amounts of our or our clients funds.
their creditworthiness using a suite of key risk indicators including market data and credit agency ratings.
Any deposits are placed according to agreed limits which may be amended in the context of any relevant changes.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13
