PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Bunzl has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risk and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact.
RISK OVERVIEW The effective identication, management and mitigation of risks and uncertainties across the Group are an integral part of delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
The Risk management and internal control section of the Corporate governance report on pages 36 and 37 includes further information on the specic procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
The Companys approach involves risks being regularly reviewed by each business area and measured against a dened set of probability and impact criteria.
This is then captured in a consistent reporting format, enabling management to consolidate the business area risk information and summarise the material risks in the form of a Group risk assessment.
The Executive Committee then reviews the Group risk assessment, the relevant controls and other steps taken to mitigate the risks identied and the assurance procedures in place over such controls with a view to determining any further actions required in order to reduce the levels of risk to acceptable levels.
The risk assessment is then submitted for review and approval by the Board.
CHANGES TO THE RISK PROFILE The Group operates in many business environments and across a number of geographies in which risks and uncertainties exist, not all of which arenecessarily within the Companys control.
The risks identied in the 2011 Annual Report remain those of most concern to the business at the end of 2012.
However in particular the risks relating to the impact of price deation and competitive pressures are considered to have increased and the risk relating to financial liquidity has decreased since the previous year.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps taken to mitigate such risks and uncertainties are detailed below.
This summary is not intended to be exhaustive and is not presented in order of potential probability or impact.
Market risks Mitigating factors Competitive pressures The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces competition The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service from international companies as well as national, regional and local levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their needs companies in the countries in which it operates.
Increased competition and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a national and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to an presence in the markets in which the Group operates and maintaining adverse effect on results and hinder the Groups growth potential, either strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers thereby enabling through pressure on margins or loss of customers.
the Group to offer a broad range of products to its customers.
Product price changes The purchase price and availability of products distributed by the Group The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price increases can uctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the results from its suppliers to its customers and to source its products from a of operations.
Adverse economic conditions resulting in a period of number of different suppliers so that it is not dependent on any one commodity price deation and increased levels of imported products source of supply for any particular product.
Increased focus on the may lead to reductions in the price and value of the Groups products.
Groups own import programmes and brands, together with the Ifthis were to occur, the Groups revenue and, as a result, its profits, reinforcement of the Groups service and product offering to could be reduced and the value of inventory held in stock may not customers, helps to minimise the impact of price deation.
The Group mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory ina deationary environment by managing stock levels efficiently and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
Economic environment The Groups business is partially dependent on general economic The Groups operations and its customer base are diverse, with a conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
variable and exible cost base, and many of the sectors in which Asignicant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse itcompetes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient to effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
Financial risks Mitigating factors Foreign exchange The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned in The Group believes that the benets of its geographical spread US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
As a result, movements outweigh the associated risks.
in exchange rates may have a material translation impact on the Groups reported results.
The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the functional currency of the Groups operations.
As a result, transaction The Group may also be subject to transaction exposures where exposures are usually limited and exchange rate uctuations have products are purchased in one currency and sold in another and minimal effect on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and movements in exchange rates may also adversely affect the value significant adverse movement of a foreign currency in which products of the Groups net assets.
are purchased which may lead to a delay in passing on to customers the resulting price increases.
The Groups businesses, reported results and net assets could similarly be affected by the exit from the eurozone of countries where the Group Although the consequences of a country leaving the eurozone, and the has operations.
resulting impact this will have on other countries both within and outside the eurozone, are difficult to predict, the Groups operations in those countries most likely to do so at the current time are relatively small.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 25 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Financial risks continued Mitigating factors Financial liquidity and debt covenants The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth and to andcontinually monitors net debt and forecast cash ows to ensure makeacquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise.
There is a risk thatit will be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and that the Group may be unable to obtain the necessary funds when that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups requirements required or that such funds will only be available on unfavourable terms.
inthe short, medium and long term.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and interest onamonthly basis based on the management accounts.
A breach of these covenants could result in a significant proportion analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess of the Groups borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
Operational risks Mitigating factors Acquisitions A significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been achieved The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups growth strategy which operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive includes additional acquisitions.
Although the Group operates in a advantage and which have good growth opportunities.
The Group number of fragmented markets which provide future acquisition continually reviews acquisition targets and has established processes opportunities, there can be no assurance that the Group will be able and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence to make acquisitions in the future or that any acquisitions made will and post-acquisition integration.
The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an acquisition In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms through the recruitment and retention of high quality management compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this will combined with effective strategic planning, investment in resources lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the intangible and infrastructure and regular reviews of performance by both assets attributed to that acquisition.
business area and Group management.
Business continuity The Group would be affected if there was a significant failure of its The Group seeks to reduce the impact of facilities failure through major distribution facilities or information systems.
the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than one location and the impact of information systems failure through the adoption of detailed back up plans which are periodically tested and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations The international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to potential Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious market claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws and regulations sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and mitigate in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance and tothe supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with arrangements.
The sourcing of products from lower cost countries defectiveproducts.
increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
The Financial review on pages 22 to 24 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements include information relating to the Groups risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
