Risk Principal Risks Effective management of risks is essential to The order of the principal risks is in no way an indication the execution ofthe Groups five strategic themes, oftheir relative importance, and each of the risks should beconsidered independently.
If more than one of the the achievement ofsustainable shareholder value, the protection of the Brandand meeting corporate eventscontemplated by the risks set out below occur, governance requirements.
it ispossible that the combined overall effect of such events may be compounded.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risks are effectively managed by the Group.
The Board When evaluating the Groups principal risks during the has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for financial year under review, the following changes have reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of beenidentied: internal control and risk management methodology.
the inability of the Group to absorb commodity As part of this review, the Audit Committee considers price increases is no longer viewed as a principal the principal risks facing the Group and the nature and risk due to the activities of the Groups sourcing extent of these risks.
The Groups Internal Audit and Risk teams during the year: Assurance function facilitate a risk assessment process the failure by the Group to realise the benets in each key business area and global support function to of acquisitions or operations with partners is review the significant risks facing its operations and to record no longer viewed as a principal risk due to the the relevant controls and actions in place to mitigate risks.
successful integration of the Groups China business The detailed assessments are then consolidated to provide and its positive performance during the year: and input into the overall Group risk assessment.
Please refer to the Corporate Governance section for further details of in the current macro-economic climate where many the Groups risk management processes and internal controls.
country economies and financial institutions have continued to experience severe financial difficulties There are areas of the Groups business where it is necessary particularly in the Eurozone, the risk to the Group of to take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders.
amajor economic downturn has increased.
The key The Board has considered the nature and extent of the stepswhich the Group has taken to mitigate this risk significant risks it is willing to take in achieving the Groups aredescribed overleaf.
The risks set out on the following pages represent the principal risks and uncertainties which may adversely impact the management of the Group and the execution of its five key strategic themes.
The key steps the Group takes to address these risks, where they are matters within its control, are also described.
Such steps will mitigate but not eliminate risks.
Some of the risks relate to external factors which are beyond the Groups control.
56 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Risk Continued Risk Impact Mitigation Economic downturn.
The Groups performance remains strong: The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate however, reduced consumer wealth driven local economic risks.
In addition, the Groups by adverse economic conditions could lead financial reporting and review processes are to a reduction in demand, disrupt its supply designed to highlight any on-going decrease chain or lead to an increase in bad debts, in sales.
Counterparty credit checks are in place all of which would impact sales and profitability.
for all key customers and suppliers, and exible payment terms are used to assist suppliers as required.
Group Treasury monitors the credit ratings of financial institutions which hold Group deposits to enable the Group to take appropriate action should there be a downgrade in their creditratings.
Loss of key management or the inability The loss of key individuals or the inability to recruit Competitive incentive arrangements exist, with toattract and retain key employees.
and retain individuals with the relevant talent and specic initiatives in place designed to retain key experience would disrupt the operation of the individuals.
Recruitment is on-going and talent business and adversely impact the Groups ability review and succession planning programmes are to deliver its strategies.
inplace and have been updated during the year.
The Groups operations depend on IT systems A failure in these systems or a denial of service A number of controls to maintain the integrity and operational infrastructure in order to trade could have a significant impact on the Groups and efficiency of the Groups IT systems are efficiently.
Increasingly technology is also operations and reputation, and potentially in place, including recovery plans which would being used to stream major events and to result inthe loss of sensitive information.
be implemented in the event of a major failure.
Negative social media campaigns could impact The IT disaster recovery plans are tested on a on the Groups reputation.
IT security is continually reviewed and updated and third party IT security specialists areused to regularly test these controls.
The Group relies on a small number of vendors The Group continues to strengthen its supply in key product categories, and for specialist digital chain management function to enable it to evolve and IT services.
Failure of one of these businesses and develop its manufacturing base to reduce to deliver products or services would have the dependency on key vendors.
The Group has a significant impact on business operations.
strengthened its internal Digital and IT teams during the year and continues to facilitate knowledge transfer to internal resources.
Annual financial checks are carried out on all key vendors.
Major incidents such as natural catastrophes, A major incident at a key location could signicantly Business continuity plans are in place to global pandemics or terrorist attacks affecting impact business operations, the impact clearly mitigate operational risks, but cannot ensure one or more of the Groups key locations could varying depending on the location and its nature.
the uninterrupted operation of the business, signicantly impact its operations.
The impact of the loss of a distribution hub would particularly in the short term.
The regional spread clearly differ from a global pandemic, but both of the Groups three key distribution hubs also would impact revenue and profits.
There is a Group incident management framework in place that addresses the reporting and management of major incidents, and this is tested each year using third party specialists in this eld.
Tailored plans have also been produced during the year for a number of high impact events.
Failure by the Group or associated third A failure to act appropriately could result in A number of initiatives are in place, led by the parties to act in accordance with ethical penalties, adverse press coverage and reputational Corporate Responsibility function.
damage with a resulting drop in sales and profit.
undertaking ethical trading audits and the Ethical Trading Initiative, further details of which are set out in the Great Brand, Great Company section.
58 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Risk Impact Mitigation The Groups operations are subject Failure to comply with these requirements The Group continually monitors and seeks to to a broad spectrum of regulatory couldleave the Group open to civil and or improve its processes to gain assurance that its requirements inthe various jurisdictions criminal legal challenge, significant penalties licensees, suppliers, franchisees, distributors and in which the Group operates.
agents comply with the Groups contractual terms of change and the consistency of application and conditions, its ethical and business policies of legislation can vary signicantly across and relevant legislation.
these jurisdictions, particularly in an environment where public sector debt Specialist teams at Group and regional level, is often high and tax revenues arefalling.
supported by third-party specialists where required are responsible for ensuring employees are aware of regulations relevant to their roles.
A number of these teams have been strengthened during the year.
Assurance processes are in place to monitor compliance with results being reported to the Group Risk and Audit Committees.
The significant growth and pace of change Failure to effectively manage the pace of change Governance processes are in place for each major within the business puts pressure on both will inevitably adversely impact the Groups strategic initiative and these are supplemented internal and external resources.
operations and return on investment.
by monthly meetings with senior management to review operational performance.
Management and operational structures are continually reviewed to ensure that these support the Groups growth.
A substantial proportion of Group profits The Group expects licensees to maintain To minimise risks in Japan the Group has is reliant upon its licensed business in Japan operational and financial control over their established its own operations in Tokyo, and there andother key licensed product categories.
Should licensees fail to manage their are minimum royalty payments specified in its operations effectively or be affected by a major licence agreements, including the apparel licence incident, the royalty income may decline directly with Sanyo Shokai and Mitsui & Company.
Under impacting the profits of the Group.
its licence agreements, the Group can control product development, marketing and distribution.
Regular licensee royalty reviews take place to monitor compliance with licence terms, which canmanage but not eliminate non-compliance.
The Group operates in a number of emerging Seizure of assets or staff.
Related party business The Group uses the services of professional markets which are typically more volatile practice that is inconsistent with the Groups ethical consultants to advise on legal and regulatory issues than developed markets, and are subject standards and the UK regulatory environment.
when entering new markets, to undertake due to changing economic, regulatory, social Increased operational costs due to country specic diligence and to monitor on-going developments.
and political developments that are beyond processes driven by the regulatory environment.
The Group has continued to strengthen the teams the Groups control.
Infrastructure and responsible for its emerging markets operations services also tend to be less developed.
and works with franchisees or partners who compensate for its relative lack of experience in a number of these markets.
Unauthorised use of the Groups trademarks Trademarks and other intellectual property IP The Groups global Brand Protection team and other proprietary rights.
rights are fundamentally important to the Groups has continued to expand during the year reputation, success and competitive position.
to enable the Group to strengthen its brand Unauthorised use of these, as well as the protection efforts in a number of high risk markets.
distribution of counterfeit products, damages Where infringements are identied often by the Burberry brand image and profits.
working in partnership with other luxury brands these are addressed through a mixture of criminal and civil legal action and negotiated settlement.
Given the Groups emphasis on digital innovation the team place a particular focus on this area.
IP rights are driven largely by national laws which afford varying degrees of protection and enforcement priorities depending on the country.
Consequently, the Group cannot necessarily be as effective in all jurisdictions in addressing IP issues.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 59
