1 ouR RISK culTuRe understanding the risks We consider effective risk management to be integral implicit in our business to our business operations.
and the markets in which We encourage managers to have a positive attitude we operate provides us with torisk and to understand the risks that are inherent in our business so that they can ensure we: real competitive advantage.
take advantage of business opportunities: MISSIon AnD PuRPoSe oF RISK MAnAgeMenT meet our business objectives: our risk management framework seeks to support our control our areas of greatest risk: business ambitions, enabling us to select those risks that act promptly to fix any weakness and failure can give us sustainable returns and closely managing inourprocesses: and those risks that are unrewarded, and to optimise the are confident that we hold the right capital capital that we hold so that we can deliver our strategy.
fortherisks to which we are exposed.
We have structured our reporting around four sections: As well as having the right tools and processes, effectiverisk taking requires the right culture and 1 Setting our overall approach to risk behaviours across our businesses and we seek ouR RISK culTuRe topromote an environment where: 2 Discussion of risk profile there is openness and transparency in how ouR RISK lAnDScAPe wemake decisions and manage risks: significant business decisions are aligned with 3 How we manage risks ourstrategy, our capital performance target and ouR RISK MAnAgeMenT FRAMeWoRK ourexpected returns, and consider the effect onourreputation and customers: 4 The residual risks that remain managers make decisions in thelight ofthe impact ouR PRIncIPAl RISKS AnD unceRTAInTIeS on the entire Group: and business managers own the risks and risk management processes associated with the As well as providing objective challenge, my role as activities for which they are responsible.
Group Chief Risk officer is to provide the framework, processes and tools that help Legal & General managers We know that no system of control is fail-safe and to take informed risks.
By helping managers to we encourage managers to report weaknesses understand the Groups risk appetite, how it relates anddeficiencies as soon as they are identified.
to their business and our target returns, we can be confident in our risk taking.
SIMon gADD gRouP cHIeF RISK oFFIceR 44 annual report and accounts 2012 68906 L&G p034-051.
indd 44 16 03 2013 03:07 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn 2 ouR RISK lAnDScAPe The products that we write, the investment assets we hold to meet our obligations to our customers and the environment inwhich we operate give rise to a broad range of risks.
To ensure that these risk are managed within acceptable tolerances, our risk framework, which we describe overleaf, seeks to ensure that we are only exposed to those residual risks for which wehave an appetite.
Investment performance We invest in a range of investment assets including equities, bonds and property to meet MARKeT RISK theobligations from our insurance products: however, there is a risk that the income and valueof these investment assets may fluctuate relative to required targets.
Interest rates and inflation Interest rate movements and inflation can impact the value of the investment assets weholdto meet our obligations, as well as the value of the obligations themselves.
currency Fluctuations in exchange rates can vary both the value and income from investment assets denominated in foreign currencies, as well as the profits and value of our overseas businesses.
Bond default We hold a significant portfolio of corporate bonds to back our annuity business.
The portfolio cReDIT RISK is diversified across a range of sectors and geographies, but inherently is exposed to the risk of default.
Property counterparties We also hold property lending and sales and leaseback investments and are inherently exposed to the risk of default by a borrower or tenant, although we protect our interests by taking security over underlying property.
Banks and the issuers Banking and money market counterparties, the issuers of financial instruments and the offinancial instruments providers of settlement and custody services may default on their obligations to us.
Reinsurance contracts A reinsurer default would require business written with the counterparty to be re-brokered potentially on less advantageous terms, or for the reinsured risks to be borne directly.
longevity, mortality The pricing of long-term life insurance business requires assumptions to be made for future InSuRAnce RISK andmorbidity trends in the life expectancy and general health of those that we insure: with the risk that actual experience may diverge to our assumptions.
catastrophe We also make assumptions about the likelihood of catastrophic events that could cause awidespread loss of life or disability within the pool of the lives that we insure.
Persistency We are exposed to the risks that acquisition costs may not be recovered from product marginsif policies lapse earlier than we anticipated within our pricing assumptions.
expense Product pricing must also take account of the future costs of product servicing, with deviations in actual costs presenting the risk of reduced product profitability.
Weather events In the pricing of our household insurance products, we make assumptions about the likelihood ofweather events, with the risk that actual experience may diverge from our assumptions.
People, process, systems our business processes can be complex, with significant reliance placed upon a combination oPeRATIonAl RISK and external events of IT systems andmanual processes.
Weakness or failure ofthese systems or processes could result in financial loss or adversely affect our customers.
Regulation and legislation The markets in which we operate are highly regulated.
A breach of legislative or regulatory requirements may expose us to financial penalties and damage our reputation.
contingent events Low probability and typically extreme events that if not adequately planned for can result lIQuIDITy RISK inunanticipated requirements for liquidity.
collateral Failure to hold sufficient cash or suitable liquid assets to meet collateral requirements forfinancial instruments.
Notes 7 Asset risk, 15 Insurance risk and 25 operational risk to the financial statements further describe how the above risks relate to our core products and the specific control techniques weapply to ensure that the risks are appropriately managed.
indd 45 16 03 2013 03:07 Our APPrOACH RISK MAnAgeMenT conTInueD 3 ouR RISK MAnAgeMenT FRAMeWoRK our framework enables the Group Board to draw assurance that the risks to which the Group may be exposed are being appropriately identified and managed, and that risks that may present significant financial loss or damage to our reputation are being minimised.
The core elements of our framework are as follows: Sets out our overall attitude to risk, and the ranges and limits of acceptable risk taking.
RISK APPeTITe Cascade our risk appetite to our business managers and empower managers to make decisions that areconsistent RISK TAKIng with our appetite for risk.
AuTHoRITIeS Formal policies define our approaches to risk management and the necessary control standards to ensure RISK PolIcIeS theserisks are managed in line with risk appetite.
Tools that help business managers to identify and evaluate the risks to which we may be exposed and formulate RISK IDenTIFIcATIon  plans.
AnD ASSeSSMenT our framework to report and support the review of ongoing and emerging risks, and assess actual risk RISK MAnAgeMenT positionsrelative to the risk targets and limits that we set.
InFoRMATIon Review and challenge by the Group Chief Risk officer team of the effectiveness of our risk identification RISK oVeRSIgHT andmanagement processes.
Group-level committees that oversee the management of risks and challenge how the risk framework is working.
RISK coMMITTeeS our risk appetite our risk appetite framework expresses the types of risk that we are prepared to be exposed to in pursuit of our business strategy, the minimum capital requirements that we wish to maintain and the degree of volatility of earnings that weare prepared to accept.
The Groups risk appetite is approved by the Group Board upon the recommendation oftheGroup Risk Committee see page 68 and Group Chief executive.
The management information received by theRisk Committee and the Group Board includes our risk appetite dashboard setting out actual positions relative tothetargets and limits set in our risk appetite.
Risk Appetite Principles Key Measures We manage a diversified portfolio in which Return on capital STRATegy weaccept risk in the normal course of business andaim to deliver sustainable returns on riskbasedcapital in excess of cost of capital.
We have an appetite for risks we understand Capital allocation andare rewarded for, and which are consistent withdelivery of our strategic objectives.
We aim to maintain an appropriate buffer of Capital coverage ratio cAPITAl capitalresources over the minimum regulatory capital requirements.
We have a low appetite for unexpected variance in earnings to plan VolATIlITy volatilityinexcess of disclosed sensitivities.
We treat our customers with integrity and Customer and reputation risk dashboard conDucT, cuSToMeR act inamanner that protects or enhances & RePuTATIon the Groupfranchise.
We expect to be able to meet our payment Liquidity ratio lIQuIDITy andcollateral obligations under extreme, butplausible, liquidity scenarios.
indd 46 16 03 2013 03:07 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn We further express our appetite for the specific risks to which we are exposed as follows: We have an appetite for market risk within our We have limited appetite for significant losses MARKeT RISK annuities and with-profits businesses, and our orvolatility from market risk and so we set shareholder funds, where we are rewarded for it.
clearrisk limits which must be adhered to byGroupbusinesses.
We have appetite for credit risk to the extent We have limited appetite for significant losses from cReDIT RISK that accepting this risk enables us to optimise counterparty failures and we therefore establish policyholder and Group risk adjusted returns.
clear risk limits which must be adhered to by Groupbusinesses.
We have an appetite for longevity, mortality We have a low appetite for persistency and expense InSuRAnce RISK and morbidity risk together with selected risks.
We manage these risks by investigations and household insurance risks as we expect to monitoring experience and reflect the conclusions add value by accepting such risks.
in our product design and reserving strategies.
We have limited appetite for exposure to weather events and purchase excess of loss reinsurance to protect against this risk.
We have very limited appetite for large operational We aim to implement effective controls to reduce oPeRATIonAl RISK losses due to the likely customer impact, operational risk exposures except where the costs reputational damage and opportunity costs.
of such controls exceed the expected benefits.
We have no appetite to fail to meet our obligations We maintain at Group level sufficient liquid assets lIQuIDITy RISK when they fall due or to incur material losses on and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate forced asset sales to meet obligations.
ofthe Groups cash outflows, as identified through annual planningprocesses.
cascading our risk appetite of insurance risk exposures.
our framework of controls An important element of effective risk management includes documented underwriting policies and isensuring business managers understand the structured delegated pricing and underwriting parameters of acceptable risk taking.
It also includes investment policies which toevolve our risk appetite framework for each take into account the nature of our liabilities, guarantees ofourbusiness units, putting in place Risk&Capital and other embedded options givento policyholders.
Mandates that set out theranges ofacceptable risk taking and exposure limitsfor the risks that are our policies also set out our framework to ensure implicit in each of thesebusinesses.
thereis full consideration of new risks to the Group.
Forexample, any new product or an amendment Risk policies to anexisting product that presents a new form of We have well established strategies for managing insurance risk to the Group, or includes an option or market, insurance, credit, liquidity and operational guarantee that is to be underwritten by Legal & General, risk.
Formal policies define our approaches to risk must be approved by the executive-level Group Insurance management and the minimum control standards.
Risk Committee prior to its launch.
Similarly, approval must be received from the Groups Investment and We set limits for our material risk exposures, which we Market Risk Committee for the useof any new asset monitor on a continuous basis.
We also deploy a range classes or innovative investment assets prior to their of risk management techniques to manage and mitigate usewithin the funds backing theGroups insurance risks, thereby controlling our risk exposures inline with liabilities.
This ensures that there isdirect line of sight these limits.
For example, we use derivative instruments tonew risk taking and thatappropriate exposure limits to hedge unrewarded risks as part of ourasset liability are set having regard to theGroups riskappetite.
management activity and reinsurance programmes to transfer significant aggregations andconcentrations annual report and accounts 2012 47 68906 L&G p034-051.
indd 47 16 03 2013 03:07 Our APPrOACH RISK MAnAgeMenT conTInueD oWn RISK & SolVency ASSeSSMenT continuous risk assessment We operate a risk identification and assessment our risk identification and assessment process forms process under which our businesses regularly consider part of our broader own Risk & Solvency Assessment changes in the profile of existing and emerging risks.
process, designed to evaluate the resilience of our The assessment process evaluates the risks that are balance sheet to a range of market conditions and inherent in our products as well as those that are external events and to ensure that we maintain our presented from changes in the environments that we target levels of capital.
During 2012, extreme stresses operate: for example changes in regulation or legislation, included evaluation of a Prolonged UK Stagnation competitor actions and broader economic and market and Disorderly european Restructure, together with conditions.
our risk assessment process considers a range of equity and property stresses and bond bothcurrent factors and matters that may emerge market downgrades.
We also considered a range of overour planning cycle.
Reverse stress tests, including severe prolonged investment market disruption and defaults: significant We record the risks we have identified and allocate improvements in annuitant longevity: the failure of responsibility to an owner to manage them within reinsurance during an epidemic pandemic: emergence agreed tolerances.
Risk mitigation plans are developed of a new debilitating disease: and reputational shocks.
and implemented to manage and respond to these risks.
As the nature, probability or impact of risks maychange over time, these plans are kept under regular review.
Significant risks identified through our riskassessment process are escalated to our Group-levelrisk committees.
ouR InTeRnAl MoDel Risk management information Adequate and appropriate management information over the last three years, as part of our preparations isakey tool in the effective management of risk.
forSolvency II, we have significantly enhanced our We have structured and continue to evolve our risk economic capital and risk framework through the management informationto: development of our Internal Model.
Although the regulatory implementation of Solvency II has now enable all significant risk positions to be monitored: beendeferred, we believe economic capital to be an compare actual risk exposures and capital positions important measure in our assessment of theamount to targets, limits and tolerances established as part of capital that we need to hold to meet ourobjectives of our risk appetite framework: and an important metric in managing our business assess the delivery of our target customer outcomes: performance: for example, using the output asone consider changes in the profile of existing risks ofour decision analysis tools inareas suchas capital andemerging risk matters: allocation, product pricing, and the assessment of monitor the resolution of control failures and the significant transactions.
Whilst uncertainty remains remediation of control weaknesses: over the final calibrations for the regulatory capital aggregate risk exposures and concentrations requirement under Solvency II, webelieve ofrisks: and ourcontinued focus on our Internal Modeland assess the adequacy of capital relative to the aneconomic capital calibration, alongside our IMAP riskstowhich the organisation may be exposed.
submission which we made in November 2012, willposition us well for a subsequent transition toaSolvency II capital regime.
indd 48 16 03 2013 03:07 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn Risk oversight The Group Board has ultimate oversight responsibility for the Groups risk management framework.
The Group RiskCommittee, supported by the Group Chief Risk officer, serves as the focal point for Board oversight of risk management activities.
The report of the Group Risk Committee is set out at page 68.
The table below summarises ourthree lines of defence risk governance model.
our three lines of defence Roles and responsibilities Associated Committees and their role Business Management Divisional committees RISK TAKIng The Groups business divisions are responsible Risk management committees established for risk taking and accountable for effective within each of our business divisions provide risk management.
aforum for the review of material risk exposures and risk mitigation activities.
group chief Risk officer group Risk committee RISK conTRol The Group Chief Risk officer, who is independent The Committees primary role is to provide AnD oVeRSIgHT of the business line, leads the Groups risk guidance to the Board in relation to the Groups management function.
Key activities include: risk management policies and procedures andadvice on what constitutes acceptable risk Advising the Board on setting risk appetite taking.
The members of the Committee are andlimits.
non-executive directors of the Group Board.
establishing the Groups risk and capital management framework, and its risk executive Risk committee management strategies and policies.
The role of the executive Risk Committee Leading the Board evaluation of changes istoensure that an appropriate framework is insignificant Group level risks.
inplace across the Group to identify, assess, Forming independent views and advising andmanage the Groups principal risks and onrisk matters and risk:reward trade-offs.
tooversee the effective operation of the evaluating the adequacy of the management framework.
The Committee, which is chaired ofkey risks and their controls.
bythe Group Chief executive, meets quarterly.
ensuring the overall design, validation Its membership comprises the executive and effective operation of the Groups directors of the Group and the Group Chief Internal Model.
The Committee delegates Assessing and reporting upon the sufficiency oversightof specific aspects of the Groups of the Groups capital to deliver the Groups riskframework and responsibility for limit strategic plans.
settingto the following sub-committees: Group Insurance Risk Committee: Investment and Market Risk Committee: and Counterparty Credit Committee.
group Internal Audit group Audit committee InDePenDenT Group Internal Audit provide Independent The responsibilities of the Committee include ASSuRAnce assurance on the effectiveness ofboth advising the Board on the effectiveness of the business risk management and the Group Groups internal control environment and risk risk oversight and challenge processes.
As set out on page 69 during 2012 the Board commissioned an externally facilitated review to assess the Groups risk management framework against industry best practice in readiness for Solvency II.
indd 49 16 03 2013 03:07 Our APPrOACH risk ManaGeMent cOntinueD 4 Our PrinciPal risks & uncertainties Set out below is an analysis of current principal risks and uncertainties.
A detailed review of the Groups inherent risk exposures and high level control processes are set out at Notes 7, 15 and 25 to the financial statements.
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Changes in regulation or legislation may 2012 has seen the successful delivery of We seek to actively participate with haveadetrimental effect on our strategy  Review RDR proposition Government and regulatory bodies in the orprofitability.
Legislation and government together with the transition of our business UK and Europe to assist in the evaluation fiscalpolicy can influence our product design, partnersto the new regime.
We have also delivered ofchange so as todevelop outcomes theperiod of retention of products and our the corecomponents of our Solvency II SII thatmeet the needs of allstakeholders.
required reserves for future liabilities.
However, there remains much Internally, we evaluate the impact of all definesthe overall framework for the design, uncertainty both to the implementation timescales legislative and regulatory change as part marketing and distribution of our products: of SII and the final calibrations that will be used ofour formal risk identification and andthe prudential capital that we hold.
The regulatory change assessment processes, with material Thenatureof long term business canresult agenda also continues with the transition of the matters being considered at the Group insome changes inregulation having FSAinto thePrudential Regulatory Authority and RiskCommittee and the Group Board.
Whilst the high level approaches of the respective bodies have been published, potential remains that their new rule books present unintended consequences to the insurance sector and that a more aggressive supervision and enforcement regime leads to increased capital requirements and increased compliance costs.
Other areas of significant regulatory change include further regulation of theUK mortgage market and the EU Packaged Retail Investment Products directive.
Investment market performance or conditions Although investment markets have shown a strong As illustrated on page 8 we model inthe broader economy mayadversely impact recovery in 2012 and early 2013, the outlook for the ourbusiness plans across a broad our earnings andprofitability.
The performance global economy continues to remain uncertain.
rangeofeconomic scenarios and take andliquidity ofinvestment markets, interest Rates ofeconomic growth look set to be subdued account ofalternative economic outlooks rate movementsand inflation can impact the and macro-economic policy responses are likely withinouroverall business strategy.
value ofthe investment assets we hold to meet to drive a prolonged period of low interest rates.
Aspart ofour medium-term plan we the obligations arising from insurance business While EU governments have acted to stabilise havesoughttoensure focus upon those as wellas the value of the obligations themselves, the Euro zone, there remains potential for shocks marketsegments that will be resilient resulting in mismatches in the profile of cash flows toglobal financial markets, which, in the extreme, inprojected conditions.
Details of our of our assets and liabilities.
In addition, significant could impact our ability to execute hedging strategies business strategy are set out on pages falls in investment values can also impact the fee that ensure the profile of our assets and liability 11to 13.
Sensitivities to interest rate income of our investment management business.
cash flows are appropriately matched.
mismatches, exposure to worldwide Broader economic conditions can impact the equitymarkets and currencies are timing of the purchaseand the period of retention set outon pages 164, 150 and 153 of retailfinancial services products.
In dealing with issuers of debt and other Over 2012 credit spreads have begun to normalise, We actively manage our exposure to typesofcounterparty the Group isexposed reflecting increased market confidence in the default risks, setting robust counterparty tothe riskof default.
A default event within issuers of investment grade bonds and at L&G selection criteria and exposure limits.
thebanking sector, or a major Sovereign debt we continue to experience a very low level ofactual Wecontinue to diversify the asset classes event, could resultindislocation of bond markets, defaults.
However, while weassess the occurrence backing our annuities business, to include significantly widening credit spreads, and in of a majorbank default orSovereign event as being the use of property lending, sale and extreme conditions may result in default amore extreme outcome than in previous years, leaseback and infrastructure assets.
ofstrongly ratedissuers of debt, requiring us the riskand associated uncertainties remain.
The Detailsof our default provisions are set toincrease ourdefault provisions.
We also current economic environment alsopresents an outat page 23.
Exposures to credit risk are haveexposures to banking, money market and increasedrisk that suppliers of business services set out onpage 154 and sensitivities reinsurance counterparties, and the providers of may be unable to meet their obligations.
to changes in credit spreads on page 164. settlement, custody and other bespoke business Our service providers are alsosubject to services to the Group, a failure of which could rigorous selection criteria.
expose us either tofinancial loss or short-term operational disruption ofour business processes.
indd 50 27 03 2013 12:59 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn Risk uncertainty Trend and outlook Mitigation As a UK-based Group, our earnings are As a significant participant in the long-term We actively manage our brand and influenced by the performance and perception savingsmarkets, we are inherently exposed to the seektodifferentiate our business model ofthe UK financial services sector as a whole.
risk of adownturn in new business volumes and from that of our competitors, focusing Thefinancial crisis, subsequent investment changes in policy persistency as a consequence onour customers needs through a performance and low interest rate environment ofconsumer sentiment.
We are also exposed to diversified portfolio of risk, savings together with consumers perceptions ofthe therisk of increased costs of regulatory compliance andinvestment businesses.
We also robustness of financial institutions may impact through regulatory and legislative responses actively engage with our regulators to consumer attitudes to long-term savings.
toevents in thebanking sector being read across support understanding of the risk drivers Recentregulatory actions, for example in the toinsurers without reference to the different in themarkets in which we operate.
banking sector with regard to Payment Protection business models.
Insurance PPI, may also adversely impact consumers perception of the value of insurance products and result in changes to the regulatory and legislative environment in which we operate.
Reserves for long-term business may require Whilst we regularly appraise the assumptions We undertake significant analysis of revision as a result of changes in experience, underpinning the business that we write using longevity and mortality risks to ensure regulation or legislation.
The writing of long-term bothexternal and our own mortality data, extreme anappropriate premium is charged insurance business necessarily requires the events, such as a rapid advance in medicalscience fortherisks we take on and that our setting of assumptions for long-term trends in leading to significantly enhanced annuitant reserves remain appropriate.
We remain factors such as mortality, persistency, valuation longevity or an event causing widespread mortality focused ondeveloping a comprehensive interest rates, expenses and credit defaults.
morbidity remain inherent risks to our business.
understanding of annuitant mortality Thefrequency of extreme events may result Following the implementation of eU gender-neutral andwe continue to evolve and develop inthe need to recalibrate these assumptions.
pricing legislation in the UK, there also remains ourunderwriting capabilities.
The Forced changes in reserves can also be required potential for further legislation to price insurance sensitivities of our UK long term business because of regulatory or legislative intervention products irrespective of other risk factors, such as to annuitant mortality are set out on in the way that products are priced.
We also continue to ensure that legislators recognise the benefits to consumers of pricing insurance products based on the risk factors that each policy presents.
The Group may not maximise opportunities The UK Government continues to focus on a We seek to ensure we have market-leading fromstructural and other changes within the broad range of changes to the provision of State expertise in the core fields in which we financial services sector.
The financial services benefits and the encouragement of self-provision, operate, and actively focus on retaining sector continues to go through a period of for example, the introduction of auto enrolment.
thebest personnel with the knowledge change.
Significant changes in the markets in Such changes will impact the way in which todesign and support our products.
which we operate may require the review and consumers approach protecting their income Assetout on pages 14 to 23 we have realignment of elements of our business strategy.
The distribution re-aligned our internal organisation to A failure to be sufficiently responsive to potential landscape is also expected to continue to evolve post fully support ourambition, including the change and understand the implication to the implementation of RDR presenting a range development ofourdigital capabilities.
our businesses, or the incorrect execution of opportunities.
of changemay impact the achievement of our strategic objectives.
A material failure in our business processes As our business grows we continue to invest in our three lines of defence risk mayresult in unanticipated loss or reputation oursystem capabilities and business processes governance model set out on page 37 damage.
We have constructed our framework toensure that we meet the expectations of our seeks to ensure that business management ofinternal controls to minimise the risk of customers: comply with regulatory, legal and take an active part in developing an unanticipated loss or damage to our reputation.
financial reporting requirements: and mitigate appropriate control environment for the However, no system of internal control can therisks of loss or reputational damage from risks implicit in the business processes completely eliminate the risk of error, financial operational risk events.
they manage, with expert advice and loss, fraudulent actions or reputational damage.
guidance from the Group Chief Risk officer team.
our Internal Audit function provides independent assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of our controls.
The report of the Group Audit Committee on page 66 outlines its work during the year in reviewing our internal control system.
indd 51 16 03 2013 03:07 Its believing that our jobs mean more than just pay slips and 9 to 5.
Weve been working on a case where we had a customer whod died, but we had no next of kin details.
We could have just left it, but from the postmortem we found out details of some tattoos he had with names and what seemed to be dates of birth.
Using systems we have access to, we were able totrace those people and send out paperwork for a claim.
Its not the kind of thing we do every day, butwe do always try and get the money to its rightful owner.
And we always try and deliver onthe promises we make.
Sven, Hove For more information please visit legalandgeneralgroup.
indd 52 16 03 2013 03:15 oveRvIeW oUR PRoGReSS oUR PeRfoRmAnce oUR APPRoAch GoveRnAnce fInAncIAl StAtementS otheR InfoRmAtIon In thIS SectIon Board of Directors 54 Letter from the Chairman 56 Corporate Governance 58 Nominations Committee Report 64 Audit Committee Report 66 Group Risk Committee Report 68 Directors Report on Remuneration 70 other Statutory and Regulatory information 100 annual report and accounts 2012 53 68906 L&G p052-069.
