Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 42 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK OVERViEW E FFEcTiVE RisK MAnAGEMEnT And cOnTROl Risk achievements in 2012 Aim significant progress has been made in reducing the risk in the business Managing risk effectively is important for any bank and fundamental in 2012 through the consistent application of our prudent approach to to our strategy.
We are looking to create a more efficient, lower risk, risk.
Key deliverables have been aligned to the delivery of our customer uK focused retail and commercial bank.
in doing this we maintain focused strategy and the four pillars of our action plan.
a conservative business model embodied by a risk culture founded on a prudent appetite for risk.
We have made good progress in reshaping the business portfolio to fit our resources, capabilities and risk appetite.
A conservative approach to, The Groups approach to risk is founded on an effective control framework and prudent appetite for risk is fully embedded across the organisation and a strong risk management culture which guides the way all employees and effective controls over the risk profile of all new business are in place.
approach their work, the way they behave and the decisions they make.
We have continued to take a disciplined approach to the management The amount and type of risk that the organisation is prepared to seek, and reduction of our non-core assets, which reduced by 42.3 billion in accept or tolerate, otherwise known as risk appetite, is driven by our the year, ahead of plan, whilst also being capital generative.
Asset sales strategy and approved by the Board.
This risk appetite is then embedded in total were within impairment provisions demonstrating the prudence within policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
of our approach to credit risk management and the adequacy of our provisioning.
The reduction of non-core assets and prudent management Risk as a strategic differentiator of risk have led to significantly lower impairment, down 42 per cent, and The Group strategy and risk appetite were developed together to ensure the core Asset Quality Ratio, impairment as a percentage of average one informed the other in creating a strategy that delivers on becoming advances, at 0.44 per cent is already in line with target.
the best bank for our customers whilst helping Britain prosper and We have continued to strengthen and fide-risk the Groups balance sheet creating sustainable growth over time.
by improving our capital ratios and funding and liquidity position.
The Groups funding position has now been transformed with wholesale We believe effective risk management can be a strategic differentiator, funding of 170 billion reduced by 81 billion in the year.
At the same in particular: time we have reduced the level of short term wholesale funding which Conservative approach to risk: The Group has a fully embedded q at 51 billion now accounts for less than 30 per cent of total wholesale conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for risk with risk funding.
Our liquidity position also continued to improve and our liquidity culture and appetite driven from the top.
is now greater than wholesale funding and covers short term funding by Strong control framework: The Group has a strong risk control q more than four times.
Our core tier 1 capital ratio further increased to framework which is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk 12.0 per cent in the year and we remain confident in our capital position.
This framework ensures appropriate engagement in The complaints process has been simplified and as a result we have seen developing risk appetite whilst also ensuring business units operate a further reduction in FsA reportable banking complaints to 1.1 per 1,000 within approved parameters.
accounts, the lowest level of any major uK bank.
This is aligned to our effective risk analysis, management and reporting: Effective risk q customer focused strategy and reduced conduct risk.
analysis ensures the identification of opportunities as well as risks and We have also continued to invest, with our Risk Transformation ensures risks are managed appropriately and consistently with having delivered improved analytics and enhanced customer support strategy.
The Groups key risks and performance against risk appetite for our retail customers as well as simplified processes for rating the risk are monitored and reported regularly to senior management using of commercial customers.
This investment has also driven reductions quantitative and qualitative analysis and are subject to relevant stress in the Groups impairments and risk-weighted assets.
This ensures we fully understand the risk in the business at during 2012 has allowed us to keep pace with the growing range both an individual risk type and aggregate portfolio level.
The key risks of regulatory demands, and prepare for future changes required to the Group are outlined on the next page.
under the Banking Reform Bill including Ring Fencing and Recovery Business focus and accountability: Managing risk effectively is a key q and Resolution planning.
focus for the Group and is one of the five principal criteria within the Group Balanced scorecard on which business areas and individual Priorities for 2013 performance are judged.
The Groups approach to risk means that continue to support delivery of the Groups customer focused businesses remain accountable for risk but a strong and independent q strategic plan within risk appetite risk function also helps ensure adherence to the Groups risk and control frameworks.
continued investment in risk systems and continue programme of investment in the Groups risk systems q processes will also help differentiate our risk management approach.
Maintain and strengthen the Groups strong risk culture by managing q performance to ensure risk based behaviours deliver against new regulatory requirements q 115 continue to attract, retain and develop high quality people q The full risk management report Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Marketplace trends 19 42 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model and strategy 22 Delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 42 Summary of Group results 44 Divisional results 52 Group Operations and Central items 67 Other financial information 68 1 77 115 203 355 Five year financial summary 76 P RinCiPAL RiSKS AnD UnCeRTAinTieS The most significant risks faced by the Group are detailed below.
Credit risk People risk Arising in the Retail, commercial Banking, and Wealth, Asset Finance and The Group has a strategic aim to be the best bank for customers.
it is international divisions, reflecting the risks inherent in the Groups lending committed to addressing issues within the business that could contribute activities and, to a lesser extent in the insurance division in respect of to customers receiving unfair outcomes.
The Group believes the quality, investment holdings and exposures to reinsurers.
Adverse changes in values and engagement of its people are fundamental to successful the credit quality of the Groups uK and or international borrowers and delivery of this strategy.
This belief coincides with our regulators increasing counterparties, or in their behaviour, would be expected to reduce the focus on the culture which underpins the performance and behaviour of value of the Groups assets and materially increase the Groups allowances employees in the development and delivery of fair outcomes to customers.
Liquidity and funding risk Conduct risk liquidity and funding continue to remain a key area of focus for the Group conduct risk and how the Group manages its customer relationships and the industry as a whole.
like all major banks, the Group is dependent affect all aspects of the Groups operations and our management of this on confidence in the short and long term wholesale funding markets and risk is closely aligned with achievement of the Groups strategic vision to deposit markets.
should the Group, due to exceptional circumstances, be the best bank for customers.
As a provider of a wide range of financial be unable to continue to source sustainable funding, its ability to fund services products across different brands and distribution channels to an its financial obligations and meet its commitments as they fall due could extremely broad and varied customer base, and as a participant in market be impacted.
activities, the Group faces significant conduct risks, which could result in insurance risk selling products to customers which do not meet their needs: failure to deal with a customers complaint effectively where the Group has got it The major sources of insurance risk are within the insurance business and wrong and not met customer expectations: and behaviours which do not the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
insurance risk is inherent in meet market standards.
the insurance business and can be affected by demographic trends and customer behaviour.
insurance risks accepted relate primarily to mortality, Market risk longevity, morbidity, persistency, property and unemployment.
The primary Market risk comprises of three principal risks.
interest rate risk This risk insurance risk of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is related to to the Groups banking income arises from competitive pressures on longevity.
insurance risk has the potential to significantly impact the earnings product terms in existing loans and deposits, which can restrict the Group and capital position of the insurance business of the Group.
For the Groups in its ability to change interest rates applying to customers in response to defined benefit pension schemes, insurance risk could significantly increase changes in interbank and central bank rates.
Equity risk This risk arises the cost of pension provision and impact the balance sheet of the Group.
from movements in equity market prices.
The main equity market risks State Funding and State Aid arise in the insurance business companies and defined benefit pension schemes: credit spread risk This risk arises when the market perception On behalf of HM Treasury the Treasury solicitor holds 39.2 per cent of of the creditworthiness of a particular counterparty changes.
The main the Groups share capital.
HM Treasurys shareholding continues to be credit spread exposure arises in the insurance business, defined benefit managed without interference in day to day management decisions pension schemes and banking businesses.
however there is a risk that a change in Government priorities could result in the framework agreement currently in place being replaced leading Operational risk to interference in the operations of the Group.
The Group also continues The principal operational risks currently facing the Group are: information to make good progress in meeting its Eu state Aid commitments arising security The risk of information leakage, loss or theft.
The threat profile from the original provision of Government support although failure to related to this is rapidly changing: with increasingly sophisticated attacks by meet Eu state Aid commitments could lead to sanctions.
cybercrime groups: iT systems The risk of loss resulting from the failure to develop, deliver or maintain effective iT solutions: and customer Process 118 The risk of process weaknesses and control deficiencies within the Groups customer facing processes as the business continues to evolve.
More on the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, including mitigating actions non-core assets reduced A further reduction in FsA Prudent risk appetite and by 42.3 billion and our reportable banking complaints strong risk management international presence was excluding PPi to 1.1 per 1,000 resulted in a reduction reduced in line with the accounts, a strong performance of 42 per cent in the Groups Groups strategy to focus relative to our peers.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
