Lloyds Banking Group 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT This section highlights the Principal Risks and Uncertainties as well as the Emerging Risks All narrative is unaudited unless otherwise faced stated.
Tables are both audited and unaudited by the Group and explains how all risk types are managed.
The audited information is required to comply with the requirements of relevant Principal risks and uncertainties have been identified through the Groups risk management International Financial Reporting Standards.
A brief overview of the Groups principal risks and how these are mitigated can be found on page 118.
The Groups approach to risk 116 The Risk Governance section describes the controls in place to ensure the Group has strong, Risk as a strategic differentiator 116 effective Risk Management.
Principal risks and uncertainties 118 The analysis of Risk drivers details how all risks are managed across the Group.
Each risk driver State Funding and State Aid 124 section includes a definition: a risk appetite statement: exposures associated with the risk Emerging risks 125 that the Group faces: and how the risk is measured, mitigated and monitored.
Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 Further information can be found under note 2 H Accounting Policies on page 219 and note 55 Financial Risk Management on page 318.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 116 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Risk Management is at the heart of lloyds Banking Groups strategy to become the best bank for customers, investors, shareholders and its people.
The mission for Risk is to support the business in delivering sustainable growth.
This is achieved through informed risk decision making and superior risk and capital management, supported by a consistent risk-focused culture across the Group.
Achievements in 2012 Priorities for 2013 R obust risk governance framework and conservative risk appetite strategy: continue to support delivery of the Groups customer q q further embedded across the Group.
focused strategic plan within risk appetite.
non-core asset reduction ahead of target and capital generative.
Risk infrastructure: continue programme of investment q q in the Groups risk systems.
sustained improvements in credit quality.
q Risk culture: Maintain and strengthen the Groups strong risk culture q P rudent approach to underwriting and provisioning has made q by managing performance to ensure risk based behaviours.
portfolios resilient to future stresses.
Regulatory change: deliver against new regulatory requirements.
q implementation of conduct strategy to ensure legacy issues q of the past are not repeated.
People agenda: continue to attract, retain and develop high q quality people.
The Groups approach to risk The Group operates a strong and independent Risk division with rigorous management controls to keep the Group safe, support sustainable business growth and minimise losses within risk appetite.
The mission of Risk division is to maintain a robust control framework, identify and escalate emerging risks and support sustainable business growth within risk appetite through good risk reward decisioning.
Risk culture The Board ensures that senior management implements risk policies and risk appetites that either limit or, where appropriate, prohibit activities, relationships and situations that could be detrimental to the Groups risk profile.
The Group has a conservative business model embodied by a risk culture founded on a prudent approach to managing risk.
The Group refreshed its codes of Business and Personal Responsibility in 2012 reinforcing its approach: colleagues are accountable for the risks they take and the needs of customers are paramount.
The focus remains on building and sustaining long-term relationships with customers whatever the economic climate.
Risk as a strategic differentiator The Group strategy and risk appetite were developed together Effective risk analysis, management and reporting: Effective risk to ensure one informed the other in creating a strategy that delivers analysis ensures the identification of opportunities as well as on becoming the best bank for our customers whilst helping Britain risks and ensures risks are managed appropriately and consistent prosper and creating sustainable growth over time.
The Groups key risks and performance against risk appetite are monitored and reported regularly to senior We believe effective risk management can be a strategic management using quantitative and qualitative analysis and are differentiator, in particular: subject to relevant stress testing.
This ensures we fully understand Conservative approach to risk: The Group has a fully embedded the risk in the business at both an individual risk type and aggregate conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for risk with risk portfolio level.
The key risks to the Group are outlined culture and appetite driven top down.
Strong control framework: The Group has a strong risk control Business focus and accountability: Managing risk effectively is a key framework which is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk focus for the Group and is one of the five principal criteria within management.
This framework ensures appropriate engagement its Balanced scorecard on which business areas and individual in developing risk appetite whilst also ensuring business units performance are judged.
The Groups approach to risk means that operate within approved parameters.
businesses remain accountable for risk but a strong and independent risk function also helps ensure adherence to the Groups risk and control frameworks.
The continued investment in risk systems and processes will also help differentiate our risk management approach.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 116 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 The Group has zero appetite for systemic unfair customer outcomes arising from product design, sales or after-sales processes.
The Group expects its leaders to have the highest integrity and values, thinking and acting for the long-term.
The Groups risk culture is embedded within the Groups risk appetites, policies, procedures, controls and reporting.
For example: The Groups risk culture is embedded within its approach to conduct risk, and is supported by frameworks to help it deliver the right outcomes for customers, and implemented through policies and standards in key areas such as product governance, responsible lending, claims and complaints handling.
The Groups risk culture is embedded within its approach to managing credit risk: Board level credit risk appetite is supported by more detailed metrics at divisional and business level: measurement of credit risk for loans and advances to customers at counterparty level: internal systems of control such as credit policies, assurance and review, controls over rating systems, stress testing and scenario analysis: collateral: master netting agreements and support for customers in difficulty.
Risk appetite The Group defines risk appetite as the amount and type of risk that our organisation is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
The Groups strategy operates in tandem with the Groups high level risk appetite which is supported by more detailed metrics and limits.
An updated Risk Appetite statement was approved by the Board in 2012 which incorporated recommendations from the non-executive directors and is fully aligned with Group strategy.
Risk appetite is embedded within policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
Risk appetite will continue to evolve in tandem with Group strategy.
Governance and control Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the Board, Board Risk committee and Audit committee, down through the management hierarchy supported by a committee-based structure designed to ensure that the Groups risk appetite, policies, procedures, controls and reporting are fully in line with regulations, law, corporate governance and industry good-practice.
The Groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework and a strong risk management culture which ensures that business units remain accountable for risk and therefore guides the way all employees approach their work, behave and make decisions.
Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior management in Group wide risk issues at Group Executive committee level, ensures that issues are promptly escalated and remediation plans are initiated where required.
The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance structures relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by both the Board and senior management.
A strong control framework remains a priority for the Group and is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
The Group optimises performance by allowing business units to operate within approved parameters.
Risk decision making and reporting Taking risks which are well understood, consistent with strategy with appropriate margin is a key driver of shareholder value.
Risk analysis and reporting supports the identification of opportunities as well as risks.
An aggregate view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and management actions, together with performance against risk appetite are reported to and discussed monthly at the Group Risk committee and Group Asset and liability committee with regular reporting to the Board Risk committee and the Board.
Rigorous stress testing exercises are carried out to assess the impact of a range of adverse scenarios with different probabilities and severities to inform strategic planning.
The chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Board Risk committee of the aggregate risk profile and has direct access to the chairman and members of the Board Risk committee.
A further reduction in FsA Prudent risk appetite and non-core assets reduced reportable banking complaints strong risk management by 42.3 billion and international excluding PPi to 1.1 per 1,000 resulted in a reduction of presence was reduced in accounts, a strong performance 42 per cent in the Groups line with the Groups strategy relative to our peers.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 118 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Principal risks and uncertainties At present the most significant risks faced by the Group are detailed below.
These risks could impact on the success of delivering against the Groups long-term strategic objectives and are aligned to the Groups Risk drivers.
Further detail on the Groups Risk drivers and how the Group manages risk can be found on page 131.
For further information on the economy see pages 19 and 20.
Principal risks CReDiT RiSK Arising mainly in the Retail, commercial Banking, and Wealth, Asset Finance and international divisions, Definition reflecting the risks inherent in the Groups lending activities and, to a lesser extent in the insurance credit risk is defined as the business in respect of investment holdings and exposures to reinsurers.
Adverse changes in the credit risk that parties with whom the quality of the Groups uK and or international borrowers and counterparties, or in their behaviour, Group has contracted fail to would be expected to reduce the value of the Groups assets and increase the Groups write-downs and meet their obligations both on allowances for impairment losses.
credit risk can be affected by a range of macroeconomic environment or off balance sheet.
and other factors, including, inter alia, increased unemployment, reduced asset values, lower consumer spending, increased personal or corporate insolvency levels, reduced corporate profits, increased interest rates and or higher tenant defaults.
Over the last five years, the global banking crisis and economic downturn has driven cyclically high bad debt charges, especially in the Groups legacy HBOs portfolios, arising from the Groups lending to both retail including those in Wealth, Asset Finance and international division and commercial customers including those in Wealth, Asset Finance and international division.
Group portfolios will remain strongly linked to the economic environment, with inter alia house price falls, unemployment increases, consumer over-indebtedness and rising interest rates being possible impacts to the Groups exposures.
The Group has exposure to commercial customers in both the uK and internationally, including Europe and ireland, particularly related to commercial real estate lending, where the Group has a high level of lending secured on secondary and tertiary assets.
The possibility of further economic downside risk remains.
Mitigating actions The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principal risk.
The Group manages its credit risk in a variety of ways such as: through prudent and through the cycle credit risk appetite and policies: clearly defined levels of authority including, independently sanctioned and controlled credit limits for commercial customers and counterparties, sound credit scoring models and credit policies for retail customers : robust credit processes and controls: and well-established Group and divisional committees that ensure distressed and impaired loans are identified, considered, controlled and appropriately escalated and appropriately impaired taking 132 account of the Groups latest view of current and expected market conditions, as well as refinancing risk.
Reviews are undertaken at least quarterly and incorporate internal and external audit review and challenge.
Further information on credit Risk The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 118 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Principal risks COnDUCT RiSK conduct risk and how the Group manages its customer relationships affect all aspects of the Groups Definition operations and are closely aligned with achievement of the Groups strategic vision to be the best bank conduct risk is defined as the for customers.
As a provider of a wide range of financial services products across different brands and risk of customer detriment or numerous distribution channels to an extremely broad and varied customer base, and as a participant in censure and or a reduction in market activities the Group faces significant conduct risks, such as: products or services not meeting the earnings value, through financial needs of its customers: sales processes which could result in selling products to customers which do not or reputational loss, from meet their needs: failure to deal with a customers complaint effectively where the Group has got it wrong inappropriate or poor customer and not met customer expectations: behaviours which do not meet market standards.
There remains a high level of scrutiny regarding financial institutions treatment of customers and business conduct from regulatory bodies, the media and politicians.
The FsA in particular continues to drive focus on conduct of business activities through its supervision activity.
There is a risk that certain aspects of the Groups business may be determined by the FsA, other regulatory bodies or the courts as not being conducted in accordance with applicable laws or regulations, or fair and reasonable treatment in their opinion.
The Group may also be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the conduct of its business.
Mitigating actions The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principal risk: key examples include: The Groups conduct strategy and supporting framework have been designed to support its vision and strategic aim to put the customer at the heart of everything it does.
The Group has developed and implemented a framework to enable it to deliver the right outcomes for its customers, which is supported by policies and standards in key areas, including product governance, customer treatment, sales, responsible lending, customers in financial difficulties, claims and complaints handling.
The Group actively engages with regulatory bodies and other stakeholders in developing its understanding of current customer treatment concerns.
The Group develops colleagues awareness of these and other expected standards of conduct through these and other policies and standards 169 and codes of responsibility.
it also undertakes root cause analysis of complaints and makes use of Further information on conduct Risk technology and metrics to facilitate earlier detection and mitigation of conduct issues.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 120 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Principal risks MARKeT RiSK Definition The Group has a number of market risks, the principal ones being: Market risk is defined as the risk interest rate risk: This risk to the Groups banking income arises from competitive pressures on product that unfavourable market moves terms in existing loans and deposits, which sometimes restrict the Group in its ability to change interest including changes in and rates applying to customers in response to changes in interbank and central bank rates.
A further related increased volatility of interest rates, risk arises from the level of interest rates and the margin of interbank rates over central bank rates.
market-implied inflation rates, Equity risk: This risk arises from movements in equity market prices.
The main equity market risks arise in credit spreads and prices for bonds, the insurance business and defined benefit pension schemes.
foreign exchange rates, equity, credit spread risk: This risk arises when the market perception of the creditworthiness of a particular property and commodity prices counterparty changes.
The main credit spread exposure arises in the insurance business, defined and other instruments, lead to benefit pension schemes and banking businesses.
reductions in earnings and or value.
Mitigating actions Market risk is managed within a Board approved framework using a range of metrics to monitor the Groups profile against its stated appetite and potential market conditions.
High level market risk exposure is reported regularly to appropriate committees for monitoring and oversight by senior management.
A variety of risk measures are used such as: sensitivity based measures e. g. sensitivity to 1 basis point move in interest rates Percentile based measures e. g. Value at Risk scenario stress based measures e. g. single factor stresses, macroeconomic scenarios in addition, profit and loss triggers are used in the Trading Books in order to ensure that mitigating action is discussed if profit and loss becomes volatile.
interest rate risk: Exposure arising from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities, and from the mismatch between interest rate insensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities, is managed centrally.
Matching assets and liabilities are offset against each other and interest rate swaps are also used to manage the residual exposure to within the non-traded market risk appetite.
Exposure arising from the margin of interbank rates over central bank rates is monitored and managed within the non-traded market risk appetite through appropriate hedging activity.
170 Equity and credit spread risk: The Group continues to liaise with defined benefit pension scheme Further information on Market Risk Trustees with regard to appropriately fide-risking the pension scheme portfolio.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 120 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Principal risks OPeRATiOnAL RiSK The principal operational risks currently facing the Group are: Definition iT systems and resilience: The risk of loss resulting from the failure to develop, deliver or maintain effective iT solutions.
The resilience of iT in terms of its availability to customers and colleagues is of Operational risk is defined as the paramount importance to the Group.
risk of loss resulting from information security: The risk of information leakage, loss or theft.
The threat profile is rapidly changing: inadequate or failed internal in particular increasingly sophisticated attacks by cybercrime groups.
processes, people and systems or from external events.
External fraud: The risk of loss to the Group and or its customers resulting from an act of deception or omission.
customer process: The risk of new issues, process weaknesses and control deficiencies within the Groups customer facing processes as the business continues to evolve.
Mitigating actions The Group operates a robust control environment with regular review and enhancement.
contingency plans are maintained for a range of potential scenarios with a regime of disaster recovery exercises, both Group specific and industry wide.
significant investment has been made in iT infrastructure and systems to ensure their resilience and to enhance the services they support, in recognition of the importance of the ongoing availability of the Groups services both to its customers and to the wider uK financial infrastructure.
The Group continues to invest in iT and information security control environments including user access management and records management to address evolving threats.
The Group adopts a risk based approach to external fraud management, reflecting the current and emerging external fraud risks within the market.
This approach drives an annual programme of enhancements to the Groups technology, process and people related controls: with emphasis on preventative controls, supported by real time detective controls wherever feasible.
The Group has developed a mature and robust fraud operating model with centralised accountability established, discharged via Group wide policies and operational control frameworks.
The Groups fraud awareness programme is a key component of its fraud control environment: in 2012 a Group wide awareness campaign was launched specifically addressing the emerging cyber threats and the role that the Groups colleagues play in helping to keep its customers safe and secure.
Material operational risks are reported regularly to appropriate committees, attracting senior 174 management visibility, and are managed via a range of strategies avoidance, mitigation, transfer Further information on Operational Risk including insurance, and acceptance.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 122 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Principal risks PeOPLe RiSK The Group has a strategic aim to be the best bank for customers: it is committed to addressing issues Definition within the business that could contribute to customers receiving unfair outcomes.
The Group believes People risk is defined as the risk the quality, effectiveness and engagement of its people are fundamental to its successful delivery of that the Group fails to lead, manage this strategy.
This belief coincides with the increasing external focus on the culture which underpins and enable colleagues to deliver the performance and behaviour of employees in the development and delivery of fair outcomes to customers, shareholders and to customers.
regulators leading to reductions in consequently, the Groups management of material people risks is critical to its capacity to deliver earnings and or value.
Over the coming twelve months the Groups ability to manage people risks successfully is likely to be affected by the following factors: The Groups continuing structural consolidation and the sale of part of its branch network under Project Verde may disrupt its ability to lead and manage its people effectively in some areas: The developing and increasingly rigorous and intrusive regulatory environment may challenge the Groups people strategy, remuneration practices and retention: and negative political and media attention on banking sector culture, sales practices and ethical conduct may impact colleague engagement, investor sentiment and the Groups cost base.
Mitigating actions The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to people risk.
Key examples include: Focusing on strengthening the risk-based culture amongst colleagues by developing and delivering a number of initiatives that reinforce risk-based behaviours to generate the best possible outcomes for customers and colleagues: continuing to ensure strong management of the impact of organisational change and consolidation on colleagues: Embedding our codes of Personal and Business Responsibility across the Group: Reviewing and developing incentives continually to ensure they promote colleagues behaviours that meet customer needs and regulatory expectations: Focusing on leadership and colleague engagement, through delivery of strategies to attract, retain and develop high calibre people together with implementation of rigorous succession planning: Maintaining focus on people risk management across the Group: and Ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to Approved Persons and the 176 Remuneration code, and embedding compliant and appropriate colleague behaviours in line with Group policies, values and its people risk priorities.
Further information on People Risk The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 122 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Principal risks LiqUiDiTy AnD FUnDinG RiSK liquidity and funding continues to remain a key area of focus for the Group and the industry as a whole.
like all major banks, the Group is dependent on confidence in the short and long-term wholesale Definition funding markets.
should the Group, due to exceptional circumstances, be unable to continue to source liquidity risk is defined as the risk sustainable funding, its ability to fund its financial obligations could be impacted.
The key dependencies that the Group has insufficient on successfully funding the Groups balance sheet include: financial resources to meet its continued functioning of the money and capital markets.
commitments as they fall due, or The continuation of the Groups strategy of right-sizing the balance sheet and development of the retail can only secure them at excessive deposit base which has led to a significant reduction in the wholesale funding requirement over the cost.
Funding risk is defined as the risk limited further deterioration in the uKs and the Groups credit rating.
in June 2012 the Group that the Group does not have experienced a one notch downgrade in its long-term rating from Moodys, following the agencys sufficiently stable and diverse review of 114 European banks.
The impact that the Group experienced following the downgrade was sources of funding or the funding not material and was consistent with the modelled outcomes based on the stress testing framework.
similarly, the internal stress testing framework indicates that Moodys one notch downgrade of the uKs credit rating, announced on 22 February 2013, will not have a material impact on the Groups liquidity and funding positions: and no significant or sudden withdrawal of customer deposits.
Mitigating actions liquidity and funding risk appetite for the banking businesses is set by the Board and this statement of the Groups overall appetite for liquidity risk is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Groups liquidity and funding position is underpinned by its significant customer deposit base, and has been supported by stable funding from the wholesale markets with a reduced dependence on short-term wholesale funding: At 31 december 2012, the Group had 205 billion of highly liquid unencumbered assets in its liquidity portfolio which are available to meet cash and collateral outflows: daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address regulatory liquidity requirements.
The Group monitors a range of market and internal early warning indicators on a daily basis for early signs of liquidity risk in the market or specific to the Group: The Group carries out stress testing of its liquidity position against a range of scenarios, including those prescribed by the FsA, on an ongoing basis.
The Groups liquidity risk appetite is also calibrated against a number of stressed liquidity metrics: and 177 The Group has a contingency funding plan embedded within the Group liquidity Policy which has been designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating actions can be Further information on liquidity and Funding Risk taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 124 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Principal risks inSURAnCe RiSK The major sources of insurance risk are within the insurance business and the Groups defined benefit Definition pension schemes.
insurance risk is inherent in the insurance business and can be affected by customer insurance risk is defined as the risk behaviour.
insurance risks accepted relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency, of adverse developments in the expenses, property and unemployment.
The primary insurance risk of the Groups defined benefit timing, frequency and severity of pension schemes is related to longevity.
claims for insured underwritten insurance risk has the potential to significantly impact the earnings and capital position of the insurance events and in customer behaviour, business of the Group.
For the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, insurance risk could leading to reductions in earnings significantly increase the cost of pension provision and impact the balance sheet of the Group.
Mitigating actions The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to this principal risk, key examples include: Actuarial assumptions are reviewed in line with experience and in-depth reviews are conducted regularly.
longevity assumptions for the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are reviewed annually together with other iFRs assumptions.
Expert judgement is required: and insurance risk is controlled by robust processes including underwriting, pricing-to-risk, claims 185 management, reinsurance and other risk mitigation techniques.
Further information on insurance Risk insurance risk is reported regularly to appropriate committees and boards.
state Funding and state Aid is not considered as one of the Groups Risk drivers: however the Group does consider state Funding and state Aid to be a Principal Risk.
Principal risks STATe FUnDinG AnD STATe AiD HM Treasury currently holds 39.2 per cent of the Groups ordinary share capital.
united Kingdom Financial investments limited uKFi, as manager of HM Treasurys shareholding, continues to operate in line with the framework document between uKFi and HM Treasury, managing the investment in the Group on a commercial basis without interference in day-to-day management decisions.
There is a risk that a change in Government priorities could result in the framework agreement currently in place being replaced leading to interference in the operations of the Group.
in addition, the Group is subject to European union state Aid obligations in line with the Restructuring Plan agreed with HM Treasury and the Eu college of commissioners in november 2009, which is designed to support the long-term viability of the Group and remedy any distortion of competition and trade in the European union Eu arising from the state Aid given to the Group.
This has placed a number of requirements on the Group including an asset reduction target from a defined pool of assets by the end of 2014, known as Project Atlantic, and the divestment of certain portions of its Retail business by the end of november 2013, known as Project Verde.
There is a risk that if the Group does not deliver its divestment commitments by november 2013, a divesture Trustee would be appointed to dispose of the divestment, which could be sold at a negative price.
Mitigating actions The Group has received no indications that the Government intends to change the existing operating arrangements with regard to the role of uKFi and engagement with the Group.
The Group continues to make good progress in respect to its state Aid commitments.
in line with the strengthening of the balance sheet, the Group has made excellent progress against its asset reduction commitment and reached the reduction total required in december 2012, two years ahead of the mandated completion date.
The Group is currently working with the European commission to achieve formal release from this commitment.
On 19 July 2012 the Group announced that it had agreed non-binding heads of terms with The co-operative Group the co-operative for the disposal of the Verde business.
The Group continues to work with the co-operative to agree a sale and purchase agreement, with completion of the divestment expected by the end of november 2013.
The Group has also undertaken planning for an initial Public Offering iPO of the Verde business, should this be required as a fallback option.
The Verde business will be rebranded and operating on a standalone basis within lloyds Banking Group during 2013 and available for sale to another third party as a further fallback option.
The Group continues to work closely with the FsA, Eu commission, HM Treasury and the Monitoring Trustee appointed by the Eu commission to ensure the successful implementation of the restructuring plan and mitigate customer impact.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 124 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 emerging risks The Group considers the following to be risks that have the potential to increase in significance and affect the performance of the Group.
These risks are considered alongside the Groups five year operating plan.
Macroeconomic environment The operating plan is challenging, with a focus on improving earnings while achieving the required regulatory improvements on capital and liquidity.
Any adverse movement in interest rates or deterioration in macroeconomic environment beyond the Groups assumptions would delay improvement of the earnings and return profile.
Mitigating actions The Group is actively supporting sustainable growth in the uK economy through the focused range of products and services provided to business and personal customers, as well as through partnerships with industry and Government.
capital, liquidity and credit risk are managed conservatively and non-core asset reductions remain ahead of schedule ensuring the Group is better placed to address macroeconomic shocks.
Capital risk The Group has a strong capital position but remains exposed to the risks of lower than expected profitability, significant losses in a number of stress scenarios or volatility through accounting standards and regulatory changes.
One such area of potential regulatory change relates to the Bank of Englands interim Financial Policy committee FPc which published its Financial stability Report on 29 november 2012.
The report recommended that the Financial services Authority takes action to ensure that the capital of uK banks and building societies reflects a proper valuation of their assets, a realistic assessment of future conduct costs and prudent calculation of risk weights.
The FsA is expected to respond prior to the March FPc meeting.
Mitigating actions The Group has made significant progress and continues to deliver on its strategy of strengthening the balance sheet, including its capital position, to improve the resilience of the Group.
The Group has strong governance, processes and controls which, combined with the Groups proactive management of risk, result in an appropriate level of capital.
This includes: Rigorous stress testing exercises where the results are shared with the FsA: and Prudent internal models, based on empirical data, that meet regulatory and stringent internal requirements.
Regulatory change The Parliamentary commission on Banking standards PcBs was asked to conduct pre-legislative scrutiny on the draft Banking Reform Bill.
The PcBs published its initial report on 21 december 2012.
The report contains the commissions consideration of the Governments draft legislation which gives effect to the recommendations of the independent commission on Banking.
The PcBs looked at Ring fencing, one of the uK Governments main proposals for increasing financial stability.
Mitigating actions Actions to respond to the proposals on ring fencing are being taken forward alongside planning for recovery and resolution as part of a programme of work with senior executive sponsorship and robust governance arrangements.
Compliance and conduct significant legacy costs beyond current provisioning could have significant impact on capital ratios and credit ratings with consequent impact on liquidity risk.
There is inherent uncertainty in making estimates of provisions required.
Mitigating actions Prudent provisioning policy provisions for legacy conduct issues represent managements best estimate of the anticipated costs of related customer contact and or redress, including administration expenses.
Group product governance controls potential risks are monitored through product management information, new product approvals and annual product reviews leading to identification and mitigation of risks at an early stage.
Accounting standards A number of potential changes to accounting standards are under consultation.
These standards are currently scheduled for implementation between 2015 and 2018 and have the potential to add substantial volatility to the Groups reported results and capital.
Mitigating actions The Group continues to monitor potential changes and where appropriate provide feedback.
Further information can be found under note 57 on page 342: Future accounting developments.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 126 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Risk governance lloyds Banking Group Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework provides a robust and consistent approach to risk management across the Group and is a core component of the Groups internal Governance framework.
Throughout 2012 the integrated governance, risk and control frameworks were further embedded continuing the use of a consistent approach to risk appetite, delegated authorities and governance committee structures.
The Risk Governance structure below is integral to implementing ERM across the Group and by ensuring Risk is appropriately represented on key committees ensures that risk management is discussed in these meetings.
This structure outlines the flow and escalation of risk information and reporting from business areas and the Risk division to the Group Executive committee GEc and Board.
conversely, strategic direction and guidance is cascaded down from the Board and GEc.
Table 1.1: Risk governance structures Risk Division Reporting Reporting Audit Board Risk Committees Governance Board Committee Committee commercial commercial Banking credit credit Risk Risk committees Governance Group Chief executive Retail and Wealth Retail and credit Risk Wealth credit Management Risk Governance committees GeC members Committees Aggregation, independent escalation challenge Group Asset Group stress Market and Group incident Group Market and liability Testing liquidity Risk Executive Risk committee committee committee Governance independent Aggregation, challenge Group Product escalation Group Operational Group Executive Group Risk Governance Operational Risk Risk committee committee committee committee Governance Group Financial Primary escalation Financial crime crime Risk Group committee Governance Audit Business areas enterprise Risk Committees conduct, Group compliance compliance and Retail Risk WAFi Risk sWiP Risk and conduct People Risk committee committee committee committee Governance independent independent challenge international commercial challenge capital and stress Asset Finance Risk Business Risk Banking Risk Testing Risk Governance committee committee committee Group Model Group Functions Model Risk insurance Risk Group Operations Governance Executive Governance committee Risk committee committee committees Reporting Reporting insurance Risk insurance Risk First line of defence committee Governance independent challenge Risk division Executive committee Third line of defence Second line of defence The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 126 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Board, executive and Risk Committees The Groups risk governance structure see table 1.1 strengthens risk evaluation and management, while also positioning the Group to manage the changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
The Board, assisted by the Board Risk and Audit committees, approves the Groups overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
The risk focus of these committees, together with other committees are described below: The roles of the Board, Board Risk and Audit committees are further described in the corporate Governance section on pages 86 to 97.
Table 1.2: Board, executive and Risk Committees Committees Risk focus Board Committees Board Assisted by Board Risk committee and Audit committee approves the Groups overall governance, risk and control frameworks and risk appetite.
The Board also reviews the Groups aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk to ensure that these are consistent with the Boards agreed appetite for risk.
Board Risk committee Oversees and challenges the development, implementation and maintenance of the Groups risk management framework, ensuring that its strategy, principles, policies and resources are aligned internally to its risk appetite as well as externally to regulation, corporate governance and industry best practice.
The Board Risk committee regularly reviews the Groups risk exposures across the risk drivers and the detailed risk types.
Audit committee To monitor and review the formal arrangements established by the Board in respect of internal controls and the risk management framework.
The committee also reviews the effectiveness of the systems for internal control, risk management and compliance with financial services legislation and regulations.
Group executive Committees Group Executive committee supports the Group chief Executive in ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework and the clear articulation of the Groups risk policies, while also reviewing the Groups aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk.
The Group executive is supported by the: Group Risk committee Reviews and recommends the Groups risk appetite and governance, risk and control frameworks, high-level Group policies and the allocation of risk appetite.
The committee also regularly reviews risk exposures and risk reward returns.
Group Asset and Responsible for the strategic management of the Groups assets and liabilities and the profit and loss implications liability committee of balance sheet management actions.
it is also responsible for the risk management framework for market risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and earnings volatility.
Group executive Committee Members Committees Group Product Provides strategic and senior oversight over design, launch and management of products, including new product Governance committee approval, annual product reviews and management of risk in the back book.
Group stress Responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to Group Executive committee the annual stress Testing committee testing of the Groups operating plan based on internal and FsA recommended scenarios, annual European Banking Authority stress tests, and other Group wide macroeconomic stress tests.
Group incident Executive sets the strategic direction for the Groups response to significant incidents which could affect its ability to continue to operate, and instigates any tactical initiatives required.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 128 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT The Group Risk Committee is supported by the following committees to ensure more effective risk management, clearer accountabilities and more efficient and simplified processes.
credit Risk committees Responsible for the development and effectiveness of the relevant credit risk management framework, clear description of the Groups credit risk appetite, setting of credit policy, and compliance with regulatory credit requirements.
Group Market Risk committee Monitors and reviews the Groups aggregate market risk exposures and concentrations and provides a proactive and robust challenge around business activities giving rise to market risks.
insurance Risk committee Monitors, reviews and makes recommendations on the risk management framework, risk strategy and appetite for the insurance business, ensuring that the policy and oversight framework for insurance risk management is appropriate.
The committee reviews and challenges relevant insurance reporting and issues arising, including: the Groups aggregate portfolio of insurance risk against approved plans and risk appetite and the need and opportunity for effecting insurance risk mitigation.
Group Operational Responsible for identifying significant current and emerging operational risks or accumulation of risks and Risk committee control deficiencies across the Group and reviewing associated oversight plans to ensure pre-emptive risk management action.
The committee also seeks to ensure that adequate business area engagement occurs to develop, implement and maintain the Groups operational risk management framework.
Group compliance and conduct Responsible for monitoring and challenging the Groups compliance and conduct risk management Risk committee framework, aggregated compliance and conduct risk profile, and its alignment with agreed risk appetite.
Group Financial Reviews and challenges the management of financial crime risk including the overall strategy and crime committee performance and engagement with financial crime authorities.
The committee is accountable for ensuring that, at Group level, financial crime risks are effectively identified and managed within risk appetite and that strategies for financial crime prevention are effectively co-ordinated and implemented across the Group.
Group Model Responsible for setting the framework and standards for model governance across the Group, including Governance committee establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority and principles underlying the Groups risk modelling framework, specifically regarding consistency of approach across business units and risk types.
it approves risk models other than a small number defined as highly material to the Group, which are approved by the Group Risk committee.
This also meets FsA BiPRu requirements regarding the governance and approval for internal Ratings Based models, including internal Assessment models, Market Risk VaR and Advanced Measurement approach models.
How risk is managed in Lloyds Banking Group The Enterprise Risk Management framework is implemented through a Three lines of defence model which defines clear responsibilities and accountabilities and ensures effective independent assurance activities take place covering key decisions.
Business unit Managing directors Executives the first line of defence have primary responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their areas of accountability and are required to establish control frameworks for their businesses that are consistent with the Groups policies and are within the parameters set by the Board, Group Executive committee and Risk division.
compliance with policies and parameters is overseen by the Board Risk committee, the Group Risk committee, the Group Asset and liability committee, and Risk division.
Risk division the second line of defence provides oversight and independent challenge to the effectiveness of risk decisions taken at a Group level by the Group chief Executive and Group Executive committee and at a local level by business unit management and their management committees.
Group Audit the third line of defence provides independent, objective assurance across all areas of the Group focusing on the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes in line with ERM principles.
Risk management in the business line management is directly accountable for the management of risks arising in their individual businesses.
A key objective is to ensure that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk and reward, consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
All business areas complete a control effectiveness review annually see page 130, reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and putting in place a programme of enhancements where appropriate.
Executives of each business area and each Group Executive committee member certify the accuracy of their assessment.
This approach provides the Group with an effective mechanism for developing and embedding risk policies and risk management strategies which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
it also seeks to facilitate effective communication on these matters across the Group.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 128 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Risk management oversight Risk division, headed by the chief Risk Officer, consists of thirteen Risk directors and their specialist teams.
These teams provide oversight and independent challenge to business management and support senior management and the Board with independent reporting on risks and opportunities.
Risk directors, responsible for each risk type, meet on a regular basis under the chairmanship of the chief Risk Officer to review and challenge the risk profile of the Group and to ensure that mitigating actions are appropriate.
The Chief Risk Officer oversees and promotes the development and implementation of consistent Group wide governance risk and control frameworks: provides objective challenge to the Groups senior management with the support of the Risk directors: provides regular briefings and guidance to the Group Executive committee and the Board ensuring awareness of the Groups risk profile and the overarching risk management framework with a clear understanding of their accountabilities for risk and internal control.
Risk directors report directly to the chief Risk Officer: have allocated responsibility for specific risk types: are responsible for ensuring the adequacy of the framework for their risk types as well as the oversight of the associated risk profile across the Group: and support specific business areas to provide an enterprise-wide risk management perspective.
independent Challenge Group Audit provides independent assurance to the Audit committee and the Board that risks within the Group are recognised, monitored and managed within acceptable parameters.
Group Audit is fully independent of Risk, seeking to ensure objective challenge to the effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
Risk management framework Risk management strategy and risk appetite are developed and reviewed in tandem with Group strategy.
The Group uses an Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework to ensure a robust and consistent approach to risk management is applied across all business areas and all risk types in order to drive improvements in its risk profile in line with risk appetite.
The framework is designed to ensure that policies and controls can be adapted to reflect adjustments to business strategy and risk appetite which are made in response to changing market conditions.
By providing a structured approach to identify and assess the impact of emerging risks, agree tolerances and develop mitigating strategies the framework also supports the Groups aim of maximising shareholder value over time.
A key component of the ERM Framework is the common risk language, which categorises the risks to which the Group is exposed into eleven categories which are used consistently to support risk aggregation and standardised reporting.
The Framework table 1.3 outlines the key risk management activities undertaken consistently across the Group for all types of risk.
These activities map to the components of the internal control framework issued by the committee of sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway commission.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 130 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.3: Risk management framework Objective setting internal environment Risk assessment and measurement Risk response information event and identification communication Control activities Monitoring and oversight 1 The Group considers these to be principal risks.
see pages 118 to 124 for further details.
Objective setting the Groups high level risk appetite is derived from its business strategy of achieving strong, stable and sustainable growth.
The risk management strategy and objectives are set to support the business in operating in line with the agreed risk appetite.
The risk appetite is proposed by the Group chief Executive following review by the Group Risk committee and Group Asset and liability committee, and is approved by the Board.
The approved high level appetite and limits are delegated to the Group chief Executive and then cascaded in consultation with the Group Risk committee and Group Asset and liability committee to members of the Group Executive committee and the business.
internal environment the Groups risk culture ensures that colleague capability is developed, individual accountabilities and limits are understood, and policies and procedures are adhered to.
colleagues are expected to be aware of, and to comply with, the policies and procedures which apply to them and their work.
line management in each business area has primary responsibility for ensuring that they do so.
event identification incidents occurring internally or externally that could affect achievement of the Groups objectives are identified, differentiating between risks and opportunities.
Group wide risk tools and methodologies are used to help identify risks across the different risk types including external horizon scanning by Risk division.
Risk assessment and measurement risks are defined and categorised using a common risk language see page 131.
The impact of risks and issues is determined through effective risk measurement: including modelling, stress testing and scenario analysis to assess financial, reputational and regulatory capital implications both qualitative and quantitative.
Risk response actions to mitigate each risk are aligned to the Groups risk appetite and tolerances, managing future uncertainty and responding in a manner which reduces the likelihood of downside outcomes and increases the upside.
information and communication risk reporting consolidates and escalates key risks and management information internally through the Groups committee structure and reports these externally to regulators.
Risk reporting is reviewed by the business executive sitting as a risk committee, to ensure that senior management is satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and progress on any necessary action plans and tracking.
information is provided to Risk division for review and aggregation to feed into regular reporting on risk exposures and material issues.
At Group level a consolidated risk report and risk appetite dashboard are produced, which are reviewed and debated by the Group Risk committee, Board Risk committee and the Board to ensure that they are satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The report and dashboard provide a monthly assessment of the aggregate residual risk for the risk drivers, comparing the assessment with the previous periods and providing a forecast for the next twelve months, including an assessment of emerging risks, which could impact the Group over the next five years.
Control activities robust frameworks are established across the Group covering policies, accountabilities and governance.
Proportionate control activities mitigate or transfer risk where appropriate.
The outcomes of independent reviews including internal and external audit and regulatory reviews are reflected in risk management activities and action plans.
Risk and control assessments including the annual control effectiveness review assess the effectiveness of mitigating actions and whether risk exposures are consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
1 credit risk 1 conduct risk 1 Market risk 1 Operational risk 1 People risk 1 liquidity and Funding risk 1 insurance risk Regulatory risk capital risk Financial Reporting risk Governance risk The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 130 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Monitoring and oversight regular checks are carried out to ensure the Groups risk management approach and controls are effective with sufficient oversight in place.
Risk division oversees the effective implementation of policy, and Group Audit provides independent assurance to the Board about the effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework and adherence to policy.
Monitoring processes are in place supporting the reporting and escalation of significant issues or losses to appropriate levels of management.
Business areas monitor and report on their risk levels against risk appetite and their performance against relevant limits or policies.
The overall effectiveness of the risk management framework depends on the people undertaking these activities and the quality of the supporting systems and tools.
The risk transformation programme is progressing significant investment in risk infrastructure to strengthen the Groups risk management capability of which the Group policy framework is a key element.
The Group policy framework has four component parts: Group Principles statements aligned to the Groups risk drivers which set the foundation for the Groups behaviours and decision making: Group Policies documents which translate a specific component of risk appetite into mandatory requirements, key measures and controls: Group Procedures operational standards required to implement Policy across the Group: and Business Processes activity, or set of activities, which detail how local businesses will comply with Group Policies and Procedures.
All Policy Framework documents are actively managed and maintained to ensure that they remain effective and aligned to the Groups risk appetite and changing business needs.
Management of the Policy life cycle includes: Policy setting development and formal approval of Policy documents to address the Groups material risk areas: Policy embedding ensuring all colleagues are aware of the Policies which impact them, and the required processes are in place in business units to implement the Policy requirements: Policy assurance monitoring and oversight activity to confirm adherence to Policy requirements and ensure any non-compliance is identified and managed: and Policy review review of each Policy at least once a year in light of any changes to the internal or external environment in order to identify any amendments needed to ensure effective management of the risk within the Groups appetite.
Full analysis of risk drivers The Groups risk framework covers all types of risk which affect the Group and could impact on the achievement of its strategic objectives.
Following a review in 2012 the Group has moved from six to eleven risk categories to provide greater focus over significant areas of risk.
A detailed description of each category is included below.
Primary Risk Drivers Credit Conduct Market Operational People Liquidity and Regulatory Capital Financial Governance insurance 1 1 1 1 1 1 risk risk risk risk risk Funding risk risk Reporting risk risk 1 risk risk Page 132 Page 169 Page 170 Page 174 Page 176 Page 177 Page 185 Page 186 Page 187 Page 201 Page 202 1 The Group considers these to be principal risks.
Secondary Risk Drivers concentration customer Equity Regulatory Regulatory Funding Mortality Prudential capital Financial and Governance Risk Risk Risk People Risk Risk sufficiency Prudential Risk customer longevity Regulatory counterparty Product Foreign Treatment liquidity capital compliance Morbidity Reporting Risk Risk Exchange Risk Efficiency Risk People Persistency Risk Tax Product Regulatory supplier Property distribution interest disclosure development Management Advice Rate Risk Expenses Risk customer Business credit spread unemployment Processes standards Financial crime Anti-Money laundering and sanctions security iT systems change Organisational infrastructure Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 132 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Credit risk Definition credit risk is defined as the risk that parties with whom the Group has contracted fail to meet their obligations both on and off balance sheet.
Our prudent credit risk appetite and strong risk Risk appetite management controls have credit risk appetite is set at Board level and is described and reported through a suite of metrics supported a lower impairment derived from a combination of accounting and credit portfolio performance measures, which may include the use of various credit risk rating systems as inputs.
These metrics are supported charge in 2012, and the continued by more detailed appetite metrics at divisional and business level and by a comprehensive suite improvement in the credit of policies, sector caps, product and country limits to manage concentration risk and exposures quality of our portfolios.
within the Groups approved risk appetite.
This statement of the Groups overall appetite for credit risk is reviewed and approved annually.
With the support of the Group Risk committee, the Group chief Executive allocates this risk appetite across the Group.
exposures The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from loans and advances to retail customers, financial institutions, sovereigns and corporate clients.
The credit risk exposures of the Group are set out in note 55 on page 319. credit risk exposures are categorised as retail, arising primarily in the Retail and Wealth, Asset Finance and international divisions, commercial and corporate, financial institutions or sovereigns arising in the commercial Banking and Wealth, Asset Finance and international divisions.
in terms of loans and advances, credit risk arises both from amounts lent and commitments to extend credit to a customer as required.
These commitments can take the form of loans and overdrafts, or credit instruments such as guarantees and standby, documentary and commercial letters of credit.
With respect to commitments to extend credit, the Group is potentially also exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is less than the total unused commitments, as most retail term commitments to extend credit can be cancelled without notice and the creditworthiness of customers is monitored frequently.
in addition, most corporate commitments to extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards, which are monitored regularly.
credit risk can also arise from debt securities, private equity investments, derivatives and foreign exchange activities.
note 18 on page 247 shows the total notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and equity and other contracts outstanding at 31 december 2012.
The notional principal amount does not, however, represent the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group.
such amounts are reflected in note 55 on page 319. credit risk exposures in the insurance business arise primarily from holding investments and from exposure to reinsurers.
A significant proportion of the investments are held in unit-linked and with-profits funds where the shareholder risk is limited, subject to any guarantees given.
note 2 H on page 219 provides details of the Groups approach to the impairment of financial assets.
Measurement in measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to banks at a counterparty level, the Group reflects three components: i the probability of default by the counterparty on its contractual obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty and their likely future development, from which the Group derives the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted obligations the loss given default.
For regulatory capital purposes the Groups rating systems assess probability of default and if permitted, exposure at default and loss given default, in order to derive an expected loss.
if not permitted, regulatory prescribed exposure at default and loss given default values are used in order to derive an expected loss.
in contrast, impairment allowances are recognised for financial reporting purposes only for loss events that have occurred at the balance sheet date, based on objective evidence of impairment.
due to the different methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit losses provided for in the financial statements differs from the amount determined from the expected loss models that are used for internal operational management and banking regulation purposes.
The Group assesses the probability of default of individual counterparties using internal rating models tailored to the various categories of counterparty.
in its principal retail portfolios exposure at default and loss given default models are also in use.
They have been developed internally and use statistical analysis, combined, where appropriate, with external data and subject matter expert judgement.
Each rating model is subject to a validation process, undertaken by independent risk teams, which includes benchmarking to externally available data, where possible.
The most material rating models are approved by the Group Risk committee.
Responsibility for the approval of the remaining material rating models, and the governance framework in place around all Group models, is delegated to the Group Model Governance committee.
Each probability of default model segments counterparties into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default probabilities details of these rating scales are published in the Groups Pillar iii disclosure.
Exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the counterparty probability of default changes.
Each rating system is required to map to a master scale, which supports the consolidation of credit risk information across portfolios through the adoption of a common rating scale.
Given the differing risk profiles and credit rating considerations, the underlying risk reporting has been split into two distinct master scales, a retail master scale and a wholesale master scale note 55 on page 320 provides an analysis of the portfolio and page 137 provides details of our credit risk portfolio.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 132 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 The quality definition of both retail and non-retail counterparties exposures is largely based on the outcomes of credit risk probability of default Pd models.
The Group operates a significant number of different rating models, typically developed internally using statistical analysis and may use management judgement retail models rely more on the former: non-retail models include more of the latter, especially in the larger corporate and more specialised lending portfolios.
internal data is supplemented with external data in model development, where appropriate.
The models vary, inter alia, in the extent to which they are point in time versus through the cycle.
The models are subject to rigorous validation and oversight governance, including where appropriate, benchmarking to external information.
in non-retail portfolios the Pd models segment counterparties into a number of rating grades, with each grade representing a defined range of default probabilities, and there are a number of different model rating scales.
counterparties exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the Pd changes.
The modelled Pds map to a non-retail master scale which enables the consolidation of credit risk information, and it is this that forms the basis for the iFRs credit quality characterisation.
in retail, for reporting purposes, counterparties are also segmented into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default probabilities and exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the counterparty probability of default changes.
The nature, construction and calibration of retail and non-retail models are very different and so too are their respective master scales not least in their graduality.
The distribution of probabilities of default is also different, which precludes reporting on a single consolidated basis.
Mitigation The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
internal control credit principles and policy: Risk division sets out the credit principles and policy according to which credit risk is managed.
Principles and policies are reviewed at least annually, and any changes are subject to a review and approval process.
Policies, where appropriate, include lending guidelines, which define the responsibilities of lending officers and provide a disciplined and focused benchmark for credit decisions.
These policies and procedures define chosen target market and risk acceptance criteria.
These have been and will continue to be fine-tuned as appropriate and include the use of early warning indicators to help anticipate future areas of concern and allow us to take early and proactive mitigating actions.
Risk oversight teams monitor credit performance trends, review and challenge exceptions to planned outcomes, and test the adequacy of credit risk infrastructure and governance processes throughout the Group.
This includes tracking portfolio performance against an agreed set of key risk indicators.
controls over rating systems: The Group has established an independent team in the Risk division that sets common minimum standards, designed to ensure risk models and associated rating systems are developed consistently, and are of sufficient quality to support business decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
internal rating systems are developed and owned by the Risk division.
line management takes responsibility for ensuring the validation of the rating systems, supported and challenged by an independent specialist group function.
concentration risk: credit risk management includes portfolio controls on certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk appetite as well as individual limit guidelines.
credit policy is aligned to the Groups risk appetite and restricts exposure to certain high risk countries and more vulnerable sectors and segments.
note 20 on page 251, provides an analysis of loans and advances to customers by industry for wholesale customers and product for retail customers.
Exposures are monitored to prevent an excessive concentration of risk and single name concentrations.
in addition correlated concentration risks to sectors and movements in such concentrations are monitored regularly to guide risk appetite and limit setting, identify unwanted concentrations, and provide an early warning indicator for potential excesses.
These concentration risk controls are not necessarily in the form of a maximum limit on lending, but may instead require new business in concentrated sectors to fulfil additional hurdle requirements.
The Groups large exposures are reported in accordance with regulatory reporting requirements.
cross-border and cross-currency exposures: The Board sets country risk appetite.
Within these, country limits are authorised by the country limits committee, taking into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
Group policies stipulate that these limits must be consistent with, and support the approved business and strategic plans of the Group.
specialist expertise: credit quality is maintained by specialist units providing, for example: intensive management and control see intensive care of customers in financial difficulty : security perfection, maintenance and retention: expertise in documentation for lending and associated products: sector specific expertise: and legal services applicable to the particular market place and product range offered by the business.
stress testing and scenario analysis: The credit portfolio is also subjected to stress testing and scenario analysis.
Events are modelled at a Group wide level, at divisional and business unit level and by rating model and portfolio.
credit risk assurance and review: Group credit Risk Assurance, a team within Group Audit comprising experienced credit professionals, is also in place.
in conjunction with Risk senior management, this team carries out independent risk based credit reviews, providing individual business unit assessment of the effectiveness of risk management practices and adherence to risk controls across the diverse range of the Groups wholesale businesses and activities, facilitating a wide range of audit, assurance and review work.
These include cyclical standard credit reviews, non-standard reviews, and bespoke assignments, including impairment adequacy reviews as required.
The work of Group credit Risk Assurance continues to provide executive and senior management and Audit committee with assurance and guidance on credit quality, effectiveness of credit risk controls and Business support unit work out strategies as well as accuracy of impairments.
Retail Assets lending to individuals in Retail and Wealth, Asset Finance and international divisions The Group uses a variety of lending criteria when assessing applications for mortgages and unsecured lending.
The general approval process uses credit acceptance scorecards and involves a review of an applicants previous credit history using information held by credit reference agencies cRA.
The Group also assesses the affordability of the borrowings to the borrower under stressed scenarios including increased interest rates.
in addition, the Group has in place quantitative limits such as product maximum limits, the level of borrowing to income and the ratio of borrowing to collateral.
some of these limits relate to internal approval levels and others are hard limits above which the Group will Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 134 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT reject the application.
The Group also has certain criteria that are applicable to specific products such as for applications for a mortgage on a property that is to be let by the applicant.
The Groups lending practices within Retail have changed since 2009 in several ways: the Group has lowered its maximum loan-to-value thresholds, which have been reduced across all mortgage product types: the Group has withdrawn from specialist secured lending since early 2009 self-certificated and sub-prime lending and increased credit scorecard cut-offs for both secured and unsecured lending: the Group has tightened its assessments and the maximum limit for affordability of borrowings for both secured and unsecured lending.
in addition, the number of properties permitted in buy-to-let portfolios has been reduced.
For uK mortgages, the Groups policy is to reject all standard applications with a loan-to-value lTV greater than 90 per cent.
For mainstream mortgages the Group has maximum per cent lTV limits which depend upon the loan size.
These limits are currently: Table 1.4: Loan to value analysis unaudited Loan size From To Maximum LTv 1 750,000 90% lTV 750,001 1,000,000 85% lTV 1,000,001 2,000,000 80% lTV 2,000,001 5,000,000 70% lTV For mainstream mortgages greater than 5,000,000 the maximum lTV is 50 per cent.
Buy-to-let mortgages are limited to a maximum of 1,000,000 and 75 per cent lTV.
All mortgage applications above 500,000 are subject to manual underwriting.
The Groups approach to underwriting applications for unsecured products in Retail takes into account the total unsecured debt held by a customer and their affordability.
The Group rejects any application for an unsecured product where a customer is registered as bankrupt or insolvent, or has a county court Judgment registered at a cRA used by the Group.
in addition, for credit cards the Group rejects any applicant with total unsecured debt greater than 50,000 registered at the cRA: or revolving debt-to-income ratio greater than 75 per cent: or total unsecured debt-to-income ratio greater than 100 per cent.
For unsecured personal loan applications, we reject any applicant with total unsecured debt greater than 50,000 registered at the cRA.
Rules around refinancing of debt have also been made more stringent since 2009 as a result of the application of rules relating to the total unsecured debt held by a customer and the Groups approach in assessing affordability.
This has resulted in fewer customers being eligible to refinance unsecured debt.
credit scoring: in its principal retail portfolios, the Group uses statistically based decisioning techniques primarily credit scoring models.
The Risk division reviews model effectiveness, while new models and model changes are referred by them to the appropriate Model Governance committees for approval.
The most material changes are approved in accordance with the governance framework set by the Group Model Governance committee.
commercial customers individual credit assessment and sanction with the exception of smaller sME names: credit risk in commercial customers portfolios is subject to individual credit assessments, which consider the strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions and the balance of risk and reward.
Exposure to individual counterparties, groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is controlled through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities and limit guidelines.
Approval requirements for each decision are based on the transaction amount, the customers aggregate facilities, credit risk ratings and the nature and term of the risk.
The Groups credit risk appetite criteria for counterparty underwriting is generally the same as that for assets intended to be held over the period to maturity.
counterparty limits: limits are set against all types of exposure in a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each exposure type.
This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivative transactions, which incorporates potential future exposures from market movements.
Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit breaches are subject to escalation procedures.
daily settlement limits: settlement risk arises in any situation where a payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities.
daily settlement limits are established for each counterparty to cover the aggregate of all settlement risk arising from the Groups market transactions on any single day.
collateral The principal collateral types for loans and advances are: mortgages over residential and commercial real estate: charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts receivables: charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and equities: and guarantees received from third parties.
The Group maintains guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral.
collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and advances is determined by the nature of the instrument.
debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments, which are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
collateral is generally not held against loans and advances to financial institutions, except where securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into under a master netting agreement.
derivative transactions with wholesale counterparties are typically collateralised under a credit support Annex in conjunction with the isdA Master Agreement.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 134 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 it is the Groups policy that collateral should always be realistically valued by an appropriately qualified source, independent of both the credit decision process and the customer, at the time of borrowing.
collateral is reviewed on a regular basis in accordance with business unit credit policy, which will vary according to the type of lending and collateral involved.
For residential mortgages, the Group adjusts open market property values to take account of the costs of realisation and any discount associated with the realisation of the collateral.
in order to minimise the credit loss, the Group may seek additional collateral from the counterparty as soon as impairment indicators are identified for the relevant individual loans and advances.
The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
Master netting agreements Where it is appropriate and likely to be effective, the Group seeks to enter into master netting agreements.
Although master netting agreements do not generally result in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities, as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis, they do reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an event of default occurs, all amounts with the counterparty are terminated and settled on a net basis.
The Groups overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements can change substantially within a short period, since it is affected by each transaction subject to the agreement.
Other credit risk transfers The Group also undertakes asset sales and credit derivative based transactions as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
Monitoring in conjunction with Risk, businesses identify and define portfolios of credit and related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours and characteristics by which those portfolios are managed in terms of credit risk exposure.
This entails the production and analysis of regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management.
Risk division in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout the Group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are presented to the Group Risk committee and the Board Risk committee.
The performance of all rating models is monitored on a regular basis, in order to seek to ensure that models provide appropriate risk differentiation capability, the generated ratings remain as accurate and robust as practical, and the models assign appropriate risk estimates to grades pools.
All models are monitored against a series of agreed key performance indicators.
in the event that the monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations from expected outcomes, these will be escalated in accordance with the governance framework set by the Group Model Governance committee.
intensive care of customers in financial difficulty The Group operates a number of schemes to assist borrowers who are experiencing financial stress.
The material elements of these schemes through which the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily or permanently, are set out below and in note 55 on page 329.
Retail Customers The Groups aim in offering forbearance and other assistance to retail customers in financial distress is to benefit both the customer and the Group by: discharging the Groups regulatory and social responsibilities to support its customers and act in their best long-term interests: and bringing customer facilities back into a sustainable position which, for residential mortgages, also means keeping customers in their homes.
The Group offers a range of tools and assistance to support retail customers who are encountering financial difficulties.
cases are managed on an individual basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered separately and the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable for the customer.
Operationally, the provision and review of such assistance is controlled through the application of an appropriate policy framework: controls around the execution of policy: regular review of the different treatments to confirm that they remain appropriate: monitoring of customers performance and the level of payments received: and management visibility of the nature and extent of assistance provided and the associated risk.
Assistance is provided through trained colleagues in branches and dedicated telephony units, and via online guidance material.
For those customers requiring more intensive help, assistance is provided through dedicated support units where tailored repayment programmes can be agreed.
customers are actively supported and referred to free money advice agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including those at other lenders, that require restructuring.
Within the collections and Recoveries functions, the sharing of best practice and alignment of policies across the Group has helped to drive more effective customer outcomes and achieve operational efficiencies.
One component of our relationship management approach is to contact customers showing signs of financial difficulty, discussing with them their circumstances and offering solutions to prevent their accounts falling into arrears.
The specific tools available to assist customers vary by territory and product and the customers status.
in defining the treatments offered to customers who have experienced financial distress, the Group distinguishes between the following three categories: Reduced contractual monthly payment a temporary account change to assist customers through periods of financial difficulty where arrears do not accrue at the original contractual payments, for example capital payment breaks and payment assistance breaks.
Any arrears existing at the commencement of the arrangement are retained: Financial distress assistance an arrangement for customers in financial distress where arrears accrue at the contractual payment, for example short-term arrangements to pay and term extensions: and Repair an account change used to repair a customers position when they have emerged from financial difficulty, for example capitalisation of arrears.
To assist customers in financial distress, the Group also participates in, or benefits from, the following uK Government sponsored programmes for households: Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 136 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT income support for Mortgage interest This is a Government medium-term initiative that provides certain defined categories of customers, principally those who are unemployed, access to a benefit scheme, paid for by the Government, which covers all or part of the interest on the mortgage.
Qualifying customers are able to claim for mortgage interest on up to 200,000 of the mortgage.
All decisions regarding an individuals eligibility and any amounts payable under the scheme rest solely with the Government.
Payments are made directly to the Group by the appropriate Government department.
Homeowner Mortgage support scheme This is a Government medium-term initiative that enables borrowers affected by temporary reductions in income to access reduced payments for a period of up to two years.
The Government provides a partial guarantee to the Group whilst a customer participates in the plan.
decisions on eligibility, principally whether the Group expects the borrowers earnings to recover fully, initially rest with the Group and must be made on the basis of detailed information received from an independent fee-free advisor.
After a year, the customer must undergo a further full assessment made by the advice agency.
The customer must pay at least 30 per cent of the interest due.
Any shortfall in payments made during the period covered by the scheme is collected through increased payments over the remaining term.
The scheme was closed to new customer applications in April 2011 by the department of communities and local Government.
Mortgage Rescue scheme This is a Government short-term initiative for borrowers in difficulty and facing repossession, who would have priority for re-housing by a local authority e. g. the elderly, disabled, single parents.
Eligible customers can have their property bought in full or part by the social rented sector and then remain in their home as a tenant or shared equity partner.
if the property is sold outright the mortgage is redeemed in full.
Commercial Customers Wholesale credit facilities are reviewed on a regular basis and more frequently where required.
When financial stress is exhibited, the customer would be transferred at an early stage to one of the Groups specialist Bsus or customer support teams.
in order to support commercial customers that encounter difficulties during the current economic downturn, the Group increased the size of its dedicated Business support unit Bsu to cover all its uK and international portfolios.
The over-arching aim of Bsu is to work with each customer to try and resolve the issues, to restore the business to a financially viable position and facilitate a business turnaround.
This could be through a number of channels, including providing advice on how to develop and implement turnaround strategies, and considering potential restructuring of debt and forbearance.
Bsu Relationship Managers are highly experienced and operate in a closely controlled and monitored environment, including regular oversight and ongoing close scrutiny by senior management.
Exposure is minimised through a combination of appropriate forbearance, asset sales, restructuring and work-out strategies.
The determination of cash flows for cases in the Bsus is undertaken by a specialist risk team who gather a range of information from various sources including the customer, professional advisers and the Groups own credit teams to fully understand and appraise the customers business and circumstances.
A more detailed assessment is undertaken to assist in reducing risk exposure and highlighting potential strategic options.
This often involves the Group, in addition to using its own internal experts, engaging professional advisers to perform independent Business Reviews and, where relevant, independently value collateral held.
in more complex cases, such as those involving work-out strategies, the review may also involve: critically assessing customers ability to successfully manage the business effectively in a distressed situation where turnaround is required: analysis of market sector factors, i. e. products, customers, suppliers, pricing and margin issues: performance review of operational areas that should be considered in terms of current effectiveness and efficiency and scope for improvements: financial analysis to model plans and factor in potential sensitivities, vulnerabilities and upsides: and determining the most appropriate corporate and capital structure suitable for the work-out strategy concerned.
The above assessment, monitoring and control processes continue throughout the period the case is managed within the Bsu.
All the analysis performed around cash flows is used to determine appropriate impairment provisions.
customer support provides intensive care and support to smaller commercial small and medium-sized enterprises sME customers in difficulty.
Whilst the customer relationship remains with the Relationship Manager, they are supported by a customer support Manager to oversee and manage identified risk.
it is Group policy that where forbearance has been granted for a commercial customer it must be managed either within the Groups good book watchlist credit Risk classification framework or within a Bsu.
Whilst the Group treats all impaired assets to commercial customers as having been granted some form of forbearance in the past, granting forbearance does not necessarily mean that it is expected that future cashflows will fall, or that the asset is impaired.
depending on circumstances and within robust parameters and controls, the Group believes forbearance can help support the customer in the medium term.
Multiple types of forbearance concessions may occur and each case is treated depending on its own specific circumstances, as the Groups strategy and offer of forbearance is largely dependent on the individual situation.
Early identification, control and monitoring are key in order to support the customer and protect the Group.
The Groups forbearance actions for its commercial customers experiencing financial difficulties fall into the following three main categories: Amendments Waiver or amendment of covenants or interest rate to a level considered outside of market or the Groups risk appetite: Extensions Extension alteration of repayment terms to a level outside of market or the Groups risk appetite due to the customers inability to make existing contractual repayment terms: and Forgiveness debt for equity swaps or partial debt forgiveness.
This type of forbearance will always give rise to impairment.
Following a forbearance event, should the customer show a sustained period of stabilisation on their new terms and conditions or where the forbearance has reversed or cured, the customer would likely be returned to the mainstream good classification, at which point they may no longer be considered forborne.
such a decision can be made only by the independent Risk division.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 136 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 The Group recognises that forbearance alone is not necessarily an indicator of impairment but is a trigger point for it to review the customers credit profile.
One of the components of the approach to forbearance and early identification of issues used for commercial customers is the Groups credit Risk classification Policy.
This complements the Groups risk rating tools and is designed to identify and highlight portfolio levels of asset quality as well as individual problem credits.
This policy includes the Groups good book mainstream early warning watchlist process identifying special Mention and sub standard cases.
This process seeks to ensure that Relationship Managers act promptly to identify, and highlight to senior management, customers that have the possibility to become higher risk in the future.
customers classified as special Mention sub standard are subject to additional controls and regular monitoring routines, including oversight by Bsu and the independent Risk function.
concessions granted under forbearance would be classified in the Groups credit Risk classification system according to the severity of the customers financial distress.
Management information is produced which gives a high level view of asset quality, with clearly defined parameters and features.
Trends and warning signs are reported and advised to senior management promptly, which include issues not yet identified by rating models.
A robust review and challenge process is applied to each credit if asset quality declines, initiating an appropriate and measured response.
As the financial stress of a credit deteriorates the credit Risk classification helps to determine the route and management of the customer.
Repeat transgressions of forbearance would be reflected in the strategy to manage the customer and an objective reassessment of any impairment will be undertaken on a regular basis.
This is subject to independent review and sanctioning.
The Groups accounting policy for loan renegotiations and forbearance is set out in note 2 H on page 219. in addition, the Group, through its banking businesses, participates in a number of initiatives designed to assist small and medium-sized enterprises.
These include: The lending code: A voluntary code of practice covering its subscribers dealings with consumers, micro-enterprises and charities with an income of less than 1 million, in respect of current account overdrafts, loans, credit cards and lending.
it sets standards for financial institutions to follow in order to ensure that firms act fairly and reasonably in all dealings with uK customers.
in addition to providing protection for customers, it also gives guidance as to how firms should treat them on both a day to day basis, and when they suffer times of financial difficulty.
Business Finance Taskforce: The Group, through its banking businesses, has taken a leading role in the Business Finance Taskforce, which committed to a number of key actions in three broad areas: i improving customer relationships: ii ensuring better access to finance for example, through regular in-depth surveys of sME customers, including Ethnic Minority Businesses and Female led Businesses : and iii providing better information and promoting customer understanding including sponsorship of the Enterprise Research centre.
The lending appeals process: if a lending application is declined, customers have the right to appeal that decision.
The Group has committed to go beyond industry agreed standards in this area and has pledged to respond to 90 per cent of appeals with a decision within 15 working days.
in addition to this, customers will receive a goodwill payment for each overturned decline.
The appeals process is overseen by the independent External Reviewer of Appeals.
Business mentoring: Businesses may benefit from the support of a business mentor.
A free online service, offered by mentorsme enables businesses to locate local independent mentoring organisations that suit their specific business needs.
The Group has committed to having 400 trained mentors across the uK available to businesses free of charge through a network of not for profit mentoring agencies.
We also partner several mentoring initiatives to support sME including the EdA Enterprise diversity Alliance, young enterprise through our Enterprise Awards and social enterprise through work with Business in the community and the school of social Entrepreneurs.
The Governments national loan Guarantee scheme nlGs through which the Group will provide discounted funding to sMEs with a turnover of up to 250 million over the next five years.
The Group issued its full allocation of funding for the scheme and is continuing to market these facilities in order to ensure that the full benefit of the scheme is passed on to sME customers.
2013 sME charter: The 2013 sME charter details the Groups commitment to supporting uK business and, amongst others, includes pledges that: The Group will deliver net lending that is positive and ahead of the industry as a whole.
As part of its participation in the Funding for lending scheme, the Group will continue to offer interest rate reductions of 1 per cent on all approved business loan, commercial mortgage and hire purchase applications for the whole life of these loans.
The Group will do everything possible to support business customers that are facing financial difficulties through its customer support specialists.
The Group credit risk portfolio in 2012 Overview The Groups impairment charge decreased by 42 per cent to 5,697 million in 2012, due to significant reductions in both the core and non-core portfolios and an improving overall credit quality.
The lower charges were supported by the continued application of the Groups prudent risk appetite and strong risk management controls.
The portfolio also benefited from continued low interest rates, and broadly stable uK retail property prices, partly offset by subdued uK and global economic growth, high unemployment and a weak commercial real estate market.
The Groups core impairment charge of 1,919 million in 2012 was 34 per cent lower compared to 2011, driven by better performance in all divisions.
The Groups non-core impairment charge of 3,778 million in 2012 was 45 per cent lower compared to 2011.
This is primarily driven by lower impairment from the non-core irish and Australasian portfolios as the Group works through legacy issues.
The Groups exposures which are higher risk are being successfully managed by the Business and customer support units in commercial Banking and ireland wholesale and collection and Recovery units in Retail.
The Group continues to proactively manage down sovereign as well as banking and trading book exposure to selected Eurozone countries.
The Groups divestment strategy remains focused on reducing non-core assets and on the disposal of higher risk positions.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 138 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.5: impairment charge by Division audited 2012 2011 change m m % Retail 1,270 1,970 36 commercial Banking 2,946 4,210 30 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 1,480 3,604 59 central items 1 3 67 Total impairment charge 5,697 9,787 42 impairment charge as a % of average advances 1.02% 1.62% 60 bp Total impairment charge comprises: Table 1.6: Total impairment charge audited 2012 2011 change m m % loans and advances to customers 5,654 9,712 42 debt securities classified as loans and receivables 15 49 69 Available-for-sale financial assets 37 81 54 Other credit risk provisions 9 55 84 Total impairment charge 5,697 9,787 42 Table 1.7: impairments on loans and advances audited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 2 to customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Retail 346,560 8,320 2.4 2,335 32.5 commercial Banking 144,770 23,965 16.6 9,984 41.7 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 42,927 14,008 32.6 9,453 67.5 Reverse repos and other items 5,814 540,071 46,293 8.6 21,772 48.2 impairment provisions 21,772 3 Fair value adjustments 1,074 Total Group 517,225 At 31 december 2011 Retail 356,907 8,822 2.5 2,718 35.4 commercial Banking 169,964 33,117 19.5 13,693 41.3 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 51,506 18,330 35.6 11,307 61.7 Reverse repos and other items 17,066 595,443 60,269 10.1 27,718 46.9 impairment provisions 27,718 3 Fair value adjustments 2,087 Total Group 565,638 1 includes collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding Retail unsecured loans in recoveries 2012: 1,129 million: 2011: 1,137 million.
3 The fair value adjustments relating to loans and advances were those required to reflect the HBOs assets in the Groups consolidated financial records at their fair value and took into account both the expected future impairment losses and market liquidity at the date of acquisition.
The unwind relating to future impairment losses requires significant management judgement to determine its timing which includes an assessment of whether the losses incurred in the current period were expected at the date of the acquisition and assessing whether the remaining losses expected at the date of the acquisition will still be incurred.
The element relating to market liquidity unwinds to the income statement over the estimated useful lives of the related assets until 2014 for wholesale loans and 2018 for retail loans although if an asset is written off or suffers previously unexpected impairment then this element of the fair value will no longer be considered a timing difference liquidity but permanent impairment.
The fair value unwind in respect of impairment losses incurred was 868 million for 2012 2011: 1,693 million.
The fair value unwind in respect of loans and advances is expected to continue to decrease in future years as fixed-rate periods on mortgages expire, loans are repaid or written off, and will reduce to zero over time.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 138 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.8: Core impairment charge Group unaudited 2012 2011 change m m % Retail 1,192 1,796 34 commercial Banking 704 1,055 33 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 22 33 33 central items 1 3 67 Core impairment charge 1,919 2,887 34 impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.44% 0.64% 20 pp Table 1.9: Core impairments on loans and advances unaudited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 2 to customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Retail 320,058 6,693 2.1 1,957 34.7 commercial Banking 104,867 5,907 5.6 2,866 48.5 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 5,415 351 6.5 85 24.2 Reverse repos and other items 5,814 436,154 12,951 3.0 4,908 41.2 impairment provisions 4,908 Fair value adjustments 778 Total core 430,468 At 31 december 2011 Retail 328,524 7,151 2.2 2,310 37.9 commercial Banking 109,809 6,714 6.1 3,175 47.3 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 5,243 340 6.5 103 30.3 Reverse repos and other items 17,066 460,642 14,205 3.1 5,588 42.5 impairment provisions 5,588 Fair value adjustments 1,171 Total core 453,883 1 includes collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding Retail unsecured loans in recoveries 2012: 1,047 million: 2011: 1,054 million.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 140 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.10: non-core impairment charge unaudited 2012 2011 change m m % Retail 78 174 55 commercial Banking 2,242 3,155 29 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 1,458 3,571 59 non-core impairment charge 3,778 6,900 45 impairment charge as a % of average advances 3.08% 4.60% 1.52 pp Table 1.11: non-core impairments on loans and advances unaudited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 2 to customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Retail 26,502 1,627 6.1 378 24.5 commercial Banking 39,903 18,058 45.3 7,118 39.4 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 37,512 13,657 36.4 9,368 68.6 Reverse repos and other items 103,917 33,342 32.1 16,864 50.7 impairment provisions 16,864 Fair value adjustments 296 Total non-core 86,757 At 31 december 2011 Retail 28,383 1,671 5.9 408 25.7 commercial Banking 60,155 26,403 43.9 10,518 39.8 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 46,263 17,990 38.9 11,204 62.3 Reverse repos and other items 134,801 46,064 34.2 22,130 48.1 impairment provisions 22,130 Fair value adjustments 916 Total non-core 111,755 1 includes collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding Retail unsecured loans in recoveries 2012: 82 million: 2011: 83 million.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 140 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Credit Risk Retail Overview The Retail impairment charge was 1,270 million in 2012, a decrease of 36 per cent, against 2011 primarily driven by the unsecured portfolio as a result of the Groups sustainable risk appetite and ongoing effective portfolio management.
The Retail impairment charge, as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers decreased to 0.36 per cent in 2012 from 0.54 per cent in 2011.
The overall value of assets entering arrears in 2012 was lower in both unsecured and secured lending compared to 2011. non-core represents 8 per cent of total Retail assets at 31 december 2012 and is primarily specialist mortgages which is closed to new business and has been in run-off since 2009.
Table 1.12: Retail impairment charge 2012 2011 change audited m m % secured 377 463 19 unsecured 893 1,507 41 Total impairment charge 1,270 1, 97 0 36 2012 2011 change unaudited m m % core: secured 304 330 8 unsecured 888 1,466 39 1,192 1,796 34 non-core: secured 73 133 45 unsecured 5 41 88 78 174 55 Total impairment charge 1,270 1,970 36 unaudited core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.37% 0.54% 17 bp non-core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.29% 0.59% 30 bp impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.36% 0.54% 18 bp Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 142 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT impaired loans and provisions Retail impaired loans decreased by 502 million to 8,320 million compared with 31 december 2011 and, as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, decreased to 2.4 per cent from 2.5 per cent at 31 december 2011. impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans excluding unsecured loans in recoveries decreased to 32.5 per cent from 35.4 per cent at 31 december 2011 driven by the reduction in unsecured impaired loans.
Table 1.13: impairments on Retail loans and advances audited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 3 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 secured 323,862 6,321 2.0 1,616 25.6 unsecured: collections 870 719 82.6 2 Recoveries 1,129 22,698 1,999 8.8 719 Total gross lending 346,560 8,320 2.4 2,335 32.5 impairment provisions 2,335 Fair value adjustments 915 Total 343,310 At 31 december 2011 secured 332,143 6,452 1.9 1,651 25.6 unsecured: collections 1,233 1,067 86.5 2 Recoveries 1,137 24,764 2,370 9.6 1,067 Total gross lending 356,907 8,822 2.5 2,718 35.4 impairment provisions 2,718 Fair value adjustments 1,377 Total 352,812 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Recoveries assets are written down to the present value of future expected cash flows on these assets.
3 impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding unsecured loans in recoveries.
The Retail divisions loans and advances to customers are analysed in the following table: Table 1.14: Retail loans and advances to customers audited 2012 2011 m m secured: Mainstream 248,735 256,518 Buy to let 49,568 48,276 specialist 25,559 27,349 323,862 332,143 unsecured: credit cards 9,465 10,192 Personal loans 10,523 11,970 Bank accounts 2,710 2,602 22,698 24,764 Total gross lending 346,560 356,907 The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 142 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.15: impairments on Retail loans and advances core unaudited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 3 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 secured 297,902 4,793 1.6 1,251 26.1 unsecured: collections 853 706 82.8 2 Recoveries 1,047 22,156 1,900 8.6 706 Total gross lending 320,058 6,693 2.1 1,957 34.7 impairment provisions 1,957 Fair value adjustments 778 Total core 317,323 At 31 december 2011 secured 304,589 4,895 1.6 1,265 25.8 unsecured: collections 1,202 1,045 86.9 2 Recoveries 1,054 23,935 2,256 9.4 1,045 Total gross lending 328,524 7,151 2.2 2,310 37.9 impairment provisions 2,310 Fair value adjustments 1,111 Total core 325,103 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 144 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.16: impairments on Retail loans and advances non-core unaudited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 3 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 secured 25,960 1,528 5.9 365 23.9 unsecured: collections 17 13 76.5 2 Recoveries 82 542 99 18.3 13 Total gross lending 26,502 1,627 6.1 378 24.5 impairment provisions 378 Fair value adjustments 137 Total non-core 25,987 At 31 december 2011 secured 27,554 1,557 5.7 386 24.8 unsecured: collections 31 22 71.0 2 Recoveries 83 829 114 13.8 22 Total gross lending 28,383 1,671 5.9 408 25.7 impairment provisions 408 Fair value adjustments 266 Total non-core 27,709 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
secured The secured impairment charge decreased to 377 million from 463 million in 2011 reflecting further reductions in impaired loans.
The annualised impairment charge, as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers, decreased to 0.12 per cent in 2012 from 0.14 per cent in 2011.
Provision coverage has remained stable at 25.6 per cent compared to 31 december 2011.
The impairment provisions held against secured assets reflect the Groups view of appropriate allowance for incurred losses.
The Group holds appropriate impairment provisions for customers who are experiencing financial difficulty, either on a forbearance arrangement or who may be able to maintain their repayments only whilst interest rates remain low.
The value of mortgages greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions increased to 9,637 million at 31 december 2012 compared to 9,560 million at 31 december 2011.
The value of mortgages subject to forbearance reduced contractual monthly payment treatment reduced from 3,923 million 1.2 per cent at 31 december 2011 to 2,706 million 0.8 per cent at 31 december 2012.
The number of customers entering into arrears was 7 per cent lower in 2012 in comparison with 2011.
The stock of repossessions decreased to 2,438 cases at 31 december 2012 compared to 3,054 cases at 31 december 2011.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 144 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 secured loan to value analysis The average indexed loan to value lTV on the mortgage portfolio at 31 december 2012 increased to 56.4 per cent compared with 55.9 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The average lTV for new mortgages and further advances written in 2012 was 62.6 per cent compared with 62.1 per cent for 2011.
The percentage of closing loans and advances with an indexed lTV in excess of 100 per cent decreased to 11.7 per cent 37,811 million at 31 december 2012, compared with 12.0 per cent 39,729 million at 31 december 2011.
The tables below show lTVs across the principal mortgage portfolios.
2 Average loan to value is calculated as total loans and advances as a percentage of the total collateral of these loans and advances.
unsecured The impairment charge on unsecured loans and advances to customers reduced by 614 million in 2012 to 893 million compared with 2011.
The impairment charge as a percentage of annualised average loans and advances to customers decreased to 3.74 per cent in 2012 from 5.65 per cent in 2011.
A combination of reduced demand from customers for new unsecured borrowing and existing customers continuing to reduce their personal indebtedness contributed to loans and advances to customers reducing by 2,066 million since 31 december 2011 to 22,698 million at 31 december 2012. impaired loans decreased by 371 million since 31 december 2011 to 1,999 million at 31 december 2012 which represented 8.8 per cent of closing loans and advances to customers, compared with 9.6 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The reduction in impaired loans is a result of the Groups sustainable risk appetite and ongoing effective portfolio management.
Retails exposure to revolving credit products has been actively managed to ensure that it is appropriate to customers changing financial circumstances.
impairment provisions decreased by 348 million, compared with 31 december 2011.
This reduction was driven by fewer assets entering arrears and recoveries assets being written down to the present value of future expected cash flows.
impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans in collections decreased to 82.6 per cent at 31 december 2012 from 86.5 per cent at 31 december 2011.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 146 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Credit Risk Commercial Banking Overview impairment charges were 2,946 million in 2012, down from 4,210 million in 2011.
The decrease in the underlying impairment charge was primarily driven by lower charges in Australasia and in Acquisition Finance.
The reduction was partly offset by further deterioration in the shipping portfolio as a result of weak markets.
The fall in the impairment charge reflects generally stable obligor credit quality overall, with the low interest rate environment helping to maintain defaults at a lower level, despite weaker consumer confidence in a number of sectors.
The credit risk appetite approach is through the cycle helping to ensure that new business written is of good quality.
core impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers reduced to 0.67 per cent compared to 0.95 per cent at 31 december 2011.
Forbearance is well controlled and managed, and any such cases are quickly identified and managed appropriately under the Groups credit Risk classification framework.
The value of assets transferring into the Business support unit Bsu has reduced by 37 per cent during 2012.
As a percentage of total loans and advances to customers, non-core loans and advances reduced to 28 per cent at 31 december 2012 2011: 35 per cent.
As a percentage of total impaired loans, non-core impaired loans reduced to 75 per cent 2011: 80 per cent.
Table 1.19: Commercial Banking impairment charge unaudited change 2012 2011 during 2012 m m % core 704 1,055 33 non-core 2,242 3,155 29 Total impairment charge 2,946 4,210 30 unaudited core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.67% 0.95% 28 bp non-core impairment charge as a % of average advances 4.28% 4.60% 32 bp impairment charge as a % of average advances 1.85% 2.32% 47 bp impairment charges have decreased 30 per cent compared with 2011 driven by lower charges in Australasia and leveraged lending in Acquisition Finance, which was partly offset by further deterioration in the shipping portfolio as a result of weak markets.
The low interest rate environment is helping to maintain defaults at a lower level.
core impairments in 2012 were 33 per cent lower compared to 2011.
This is primarily attributable to lower impairments in some core portfolios, including in Mid Markets, corporate and sME.
in Mid Markets and corporate, there were specific large impairments in 2011, which were not repeated in 2012.
As a result, core impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers reduced to 0.67 per cent compared to 2011 0.95 per cent.
non-core impairments were also lower, driven mainly by lower charges on non-core Acquisition Finance and Australasian exposures, partially offset by further deterioration in the shipping portfolio due to a weak market.
There was a significant deterioration in the leveraged market during the first half of 2011 which has not been repeated during 2012.
A significant portion of the Australasian impaired portfolio was disposed of in 2011 and 2012, and the residual portfolio is considered better quality.
impaired loans and provisions The overall quality of the commercial Banking portfolio continues to improve.
despite a reducing portfolio, as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, impaired loans decreased to 16.6 per cent from 19.5 per cent at 31 december 2011. commercial Bankings impaired loans reduced by 9,152 million to 23,965 million compared with 31 december 2011.
The reduction is due to write-offs on irrecoverable assets, the sale of previously impaired assets, net repayments and transfers out of Business support unit more than offsetting the flow of newly impaired assets into Business support unit.
Furthermore, the flow of assets into impaired status was lower during 2012 compared to 2011. impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 41.7 per cent from 41.3 per cent at 31 december 2011 as Business support unit was successful in selling a number of impaired assets which generally had lower coverage levels.
The Business support unit portfolio continues to reduce as a result of robust and proactive risk management.
core impaired loans reduced by 807 million to 5,907 million compared with 31 december 2011.
This arose from a number of factors, including the sale of previously impaired assets.
An increase in the core coverage ratio to 48.5 per cent from 47.3 per cent at 31 december 2011 was seen as a result of a few specific cases.
As a percentage of closing core advances, core impaired loans reduced to 5.6 per cent compared to 6.1 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 146 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 non-core impaired loans reduced by 8,345 million to 18,058 million compared with 31 december 2011.
The reduction reflects write offs and asset sales of previously impaired assets partly offset by new to impaired loans, especially in corporate Real Estate Business support unit as a result of the Groups proactive stance to ensure its secondary real estate portfolio is appropriately managed.
non-core impairment provisions as a percentage of non-core impaired loans reduced marginally to 39.4 per cent from 39.8 per cent at 31 december 2011.
A reduction was also seen in corporate Real Estate Bsu 36.7 per cent compared to 37.0 per cent at 31 december 2011, due to the high level of provision coverage on previously impaired assets which were either sold or written-off during 2012, and a lower impairment rate on newly impaired assets, although this was offset partially by additional charges on previously impaired assets.
As a percentage of closing non-core advances, impaired loans increased to 45.3 per cent from 43.9 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The increase was driven by corporate Real Estate Bsu, with weak market conditions resulting in existing corporate Real Estate Bsu managed unimpaired connections transferring to impaired status.
non-core impairment provisions as a percentage of non-core impaired assets are lower than core, mainly a factor of the asset mix, where the non-core portfolios are heavily weighted towards real estate and real estate related portfolios with higher collateral levels against lending.
Table 1.20: impairments on loans and advances audited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 commercial 30,443 2,713 8.9 826 30.4 Wholesale 114,327 21,252 18.6 9,158 43.1 Total commercial Banking 144,770 23,965 16.6 9,984 41.7 Reverse repos 5,087 impairment provisions 9,984 Fair value adjustments 131 Total 139,742 loans and advances to banks 7,580 debt securities 5,261 Available-for-sale financial assets 4,345 At 31 december 2011 commercial 29,681 2,915 9.8 880 30.2 Wholesale 140,283 30,202 21.5 12,813 42.4 Total commercial Banking 1 69, 964 33,117 19.5 1 3,693 41.3 Reverse repos 16,836 impairment provisions 13,693 Fair value adjustments 668 Total 172,439 loans and advances to banks 8,461 debt securities 12,490 Available-for-sale financial assets 12,554 1 includes collective unimpaired provisions of 894 million 2011: 1,213 million.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 148 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.21: impairments on loans and advances core unaudited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 commercial 29,357 2,680 9.1 814 30.4 Wholesale 75,510 3,227 4.3 2,052 63.6 Total commercial Banking 104,867 5,907 5.6 2,866 48.5 Reverse repos 5,087 impairment provisions 2,866 Fair value adjustments Total core 107,088 loans and advances to banks 7, 1 32 debt securities 536 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,818 At 31 december 2011 commercial 28,289 2,885 10.2 858 29.7 Wholesale 81,520 3,829 4.7 2,317 60.5 Total commercial Banking 109,809 6,714 6.1 3,175 47.3 Reverse repos 16,836 impairment provisions 3,175 Fair value adjustments 60 Total core 123,410 loans and advances to banks 8,161 debt securities 190 Available-for-sale financial assets 3,154 1 includes collective unimpaired provisions of 545 million 31 december 2011: 637 million.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 148 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.22: impairments on loans and advances non-core unaudited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 1 corporate Real Estate Bsu 15,701 12,060 76.8 4,424 36.7 specialised lending 15,018 2,679 17.8 1,135 42.4 Other 9,184 3,319 36.1 1,559 47.0 2 Total commercial Banking 39,903 18,058 45.3 7,118 39.4 Reverse repos impairment provisions 7,118 Fair value adjustments 131 Total non-core 32,654 loans and advances to banks 448 debt securities 4,725 Available-for-sale financial assets 2,527 At 31 december 2011 1 corporate Real Estate Bsu 21,055 15,069 71.6 5,579 37.0 specialised lending 20,387 4,822 23.7 1,615 33.5 Other 18,713 6,512 34.8 3,324 51.0 Total commercial Banking 60,155 26,403 43.9 10,518 39.8 Reverse repos impairment provisions 10,518 Fair value adjustments 608 Total non-core 49,029 loans and advances to banks 300 debt securities 12,300 Available-for-sale financial assets 9,400 1 corporate Real Estate Bsu includes direct real estate and other real estate related sectors such as hotels, care homes and housebuilders.
2 includes collective unimpaired provisions of 349 million 2011: 576 million.
core Commercial The commercial portfolio credit quality remains stable and impairment charges have fallen over the last 12 months to 252 million in 2012 from 296 million in 2011.
The decrease reflects the continued benefits of the low interest rate environment, which has helped to maintain defaults at a lower level, and the continued application of the Groups prudent risk appetite and through the cycle credit policy that has proven itself appropriate for both customers and the Group.
supporting its clients through the cycle remains a key aim and the Group continues to operate control and monitoring activities which play an important role in identifying customers showing early signs of financial stress and bringing them into the Groups support model so prompt and supporting actions can be taken.
Wholesale Overall obligor quality remains stable, and impairment charges reduced over the last 12 months to 452 million in 2012 from 759 million in 2011.
The 75,510 million of gross loans and advances to customers in the Wholesale core portfolio is structured across a number of different coverage segments delivered via a suite of core banking products from lending and Transaction Banking to Financial Markets and capital Markets.
These include: Mid Markets The businesses are predominantly uK focused and several sectors have continued to face challenging trading conditions in the face of domestic economic performance, weak consumer sentiment and public sector austerity measures.
The Retail, leisure, construction and care sectors have shown the most evident stress, although there is wide disparity between the performance of the stronger and weaker businesses in each of these areas.
The Groups through the cycle risk appetite has helped ensure that the portfolio quality has remained relatively stable.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 150 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Global Corporates The core portfolio continues to be predominantly investment grade focused, the overall portfolio asset quality remains strong and Major corporate balance sheets continue to fide-lever.
This year has seen a limited number of mergers and acquisitions.
These are being selectively targeted by corporates, with conservative structuring approaches being adopted, and subsequent focus on rapid fideleveraging.
The Group continues to see softness in sectors such as Media, Retail, leisure and construction across the uK and continental Europe.
Public sector austerity continues to impact on recovery prospects, although the long lead-in times to these cuts have allowed corporates to adjust their own structures and cost bases.
Financial Institutions FIs commercial Banking maintains relationships with many major financial institutions throughout the world.
These relationships are either client focused or held to support the Groups funding, liquidity and general hedging requirements.
Trading exposures continue to be predominantly short-term and or collateralised with inter bank activity mainly undertaken with strong investment grade counterparties.
The Eurozone crisis continued during 2012 and continues to require very close portfolio scrutiny and oversight.
detailed contingency plans are in place and continuously refined, whilst exposures to Fis domiciled in peripheral Eurozone countries in particular have been further reduced and are being managed within tight risk parameters.
Acquisition Finance leveraged lending The Groups core portfolio is performing in line with expectations given the economic environment.
Many customers are prepaying facilities ahead of schedule.
The portfolio is predominantly within the good book business and all such loans are performing.
The Group continues to write new business within its through the cycle credit risk appetite parameters.
Project Finance Principally focuses on lending to large scale uK infrastructure.
The good book accounts for over 95 per cent of the portfolio which is representative of the quasi government cashflow or monopolistic nature of the assets.
Good book assets are performing well and have shown resilience to economic cyclicality.
Sales and Trading Acts as the link between the wholesale markets and the Groups balance sheet management activities providing pricing and risk management solutions to both internal and external clients.
The portfolio comprises 5.8 billion of loans and advances to banks, 1.7 billion of available-for-sale debt securities and 2.8 billion of loans and advances to customers excluding reverse repos.
sales and Trading actively manages the government bond portfolio which is now almost solely AAA AA rated.
Exposure to the weaker Eurozone sovereigns has been managed down to a fide minimis level given continued concerns over market conditions across the Eurozone.
The majority of sales and Tradings funding and risk management activity is transacted with investment grade counterparties including sovereign central banks and much of it is on a collateralised basis, such as repos facing a central counterparty ccP.
derivative transactions with Fi counterparties are typically collateralised under a credit support annex in conjunction with the international swaps and derivatives Association Master Agreement.
during 2012 the Group continued to consolidate its counterparty risk via ccPs as part of an ongoing move to reduce counterparty risk by clearing standardised derivative contracts.
non-core Corporate Real Estate Business Support Unit BSU strong progress has been maintained in reducing the non-core corporate Real Estate Bsu portfolio with the gross loans and advances falling to 15.7 billion 2011: 21.1 billion which is ahead of expectations.
This is primarily due to the momentum on asset disposals which totalled around 4 billion net cash proceeds in the year despite the declining volume of transactions in the regional markets.
There has been a material reduction in the level of gross loans and advances through disposals including write-offs since 30 June 2009.
The full year non-core corporate Real Estate Bsu impairment charge has continued its downward trend to 1.2 billion 2011: 1.3 billion despite the difficult market conditions.
Over 75 per cent of the non-core corporate Real Estate Bsu portfolio consists of distressed or sub standard direct real estate loans.
The remainder relates to loans to other real estate related sectors, supported by trading activities such as housebuilders, hotels and care homes, with assets managed by specialist teams.
The portfolio remains regionally focused with real estate asset quality that is largely secondary and tertiary in nature.
However, these assets have been the subject of significant and frequent review, and have been impaired to appropriate levels.
The profile of the Groups portfolio allows the Group flexibility to consider asset disposal, loan sales or repayments through the now embedded property asset management platforms and has allowed the Group to attract liquidity from different counterparties in a demanding environment.
Over the last three years corporate Real Estate Bsu has reduced non-core gross loan exposure by approximately 21 billion.
in 2012, disposals outside london accounted for over 70 per cent of corporate Real Estate Bsus disposals by value and over 90 per cent by number.
This is higher than the general market experience.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 150 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 corporate Real Estate Bsu has continued to execute its active asset management programme of this complex portfolio making strong progress in a difficult real estate market.
The principal aim is to minimise losses for the Group and to support the Groups clients through difficult periods.
This activity can involve the restructuring of loans, seeking deleverage through asset sales and other sale initiatives.
A consensual route with its clients is always the Groups preferred option.
Values in the commercial Real Estate market have trended downwards over the last 12 months, falling on average by 4.2 per cent on the same period last year.
investment volumes have by and large been steady, though investor appetite has been concentrated on london.
Although values in london continue to climb and are 39 per cent above their 2009 trough, non-london asset values are struggling and are now only 5 per cent above their 2009 trough.
With a continuing high level of loan maturities due over the next few years, refinancing risk remains a market wide risk, although loans in non-core Bsu are predominantly bilateral.
in assessing the Groups impairment provisions, allowance is taken for the Groups greater proportion of secondary real estate assets.
consequently a steeper fall in real estate prices, compared to the general market index expectations, is used to calculate impairment provisions.
specialised lending loans and advances to customers of 15.0 billion largely comprise balances in the structured corporate Finance portfolio, which includes the portion of the Acquisition Finance leveraged lending portfolio which falls into non-core since it is outside the Groups risk appetite, and the non-core Asset Based Finance portfolios ship Finance, Aircraft Finance and Rail capital.
While the effects of subdued uK economic conditions and refinancing risk continues to be felt in this portion of the Acquisition Finance portfolio, the non-core portfolio is now smaller in size and has a generally lower risk profile than in previous reporting periods which led to a significantly lower impairment charge during 2012 compared to 2011.
The non-core Acquisition Finance portfolio is approximately 75 per cent managed in Business support unit reflecting its relatively high risk parameters, with significant loan maturities due in the next few years.
in ship Finance, the tankers, dry bulk and containers sectors remained challenging in 2012.
The ship Finance portfolio is non-core and as such projects have been successfully completed to accelerate exits when deemed in the best interest of the Group with further planning at an advanced stage to facilitate early exits where opportunities arise during 2013. in december 2012, the Group sold its Rail Finance rolling stock operating lease businesses and made a managed disposal of some of its us aircraft exposure.
These reduced the Groups non-core assets and eliminated the operational and residual value risk related to these assets.
specialised lending also includes a small non-core equity business and a significantly reduced Treasury Assets portfolio.
Following a number of material disposals during 2012, the non-core drawn assets representing equity risk now only totals 0.7 billion.
The Treasury Asset legacy investment portfolio mainly encompasses a portfolio of asset-backed securities and financial institution covered Bond positions.
This portfolio size continues to be actively reduced through asset sales and from bond maturities.
Further details of commercial Bankings asset-backed securities portfolio is provided in note 55 on page 334.
Other loans and advances to customers of 9.2 billion largely comprise balances in non-core Australian corporate 2.3 billion, Wholesale Europe 2.2 billion and Entrepreneurs 2.0 billion businesses.
The Group significantly reduced its exposure and impaired assets in its Australasian business by 3.4 billion and 2.2 billion respectively during 2012, largely due to asset sales including the successful disposal of a 0.8 billion portfolio of impaired Australasian real estate loans.
net corporate Real Estate exposure in Australia now only totals 0.1 billion as at 31 december 2012 2011: 1.3 billion.
The Group was also successful in reducing its Wholesale Europe non-core exposure during 2012, with disposals of 0.4 billion in the period.
secured loan to value analysis for uK direct Real Estate lending in commercial Banking The Group classifies direct Real Estate as exposure which is directly supported by cashflows from property activities, as opposed to trading activities such as hotels, care homes and housebuilders.
The Group manages its exposures to direct Real Estate in a number of different business units.
UK Direct Real Estate in the Good Book The Groups good book exposure incorporates core and non-core, and totalled 18.0 billion at 31 december 2012.
Approximately three quarters related to commercial real estate with the remainder mostly residential real estate.
A large element of the residential exposure is to professional landlords in the Groups sME business, where performance has been good.
The entire good book portfolio has been fully reviewed and is performing acceptably.
Approximately two thirds of the core commercial real estate portfolio was originated under heritage lloyds TsB credit risk criteria.
The Groups risk appetite requires it to look first at the underlying cashflows as part of credit assessment, alongside key requirements for good quality counterparties and a well spread tenant profile.
The Group considers the value in security taken as a secondary repayment source, although its origination parameters for lTVs based on heritage lloyds TsB risk appetite are considered through the cycle.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 152 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT UK Direct Real Estate in Business Support Units The Groups Business support unit portfolios consist of 12.7 billion gross 8.8 billion net of impairment of uK direct Real Estate loan exposure at 31 december 2012.
This incorporates both core and non-core uK direct real estate exposure.
loan to value ratios indexed or actual if within last 12 months for the Groups largest transactions over 5 million are detailed in the table below.
The Group considers this portfolio to be appropriately provided for after taking into account the provisions held for each transaction and the value of the collateral held.
in the case of impaired uK direct Real Estate exposures over 5 million there is a net property collateral shortfall of approximately 0.2 billion.
This figure excludes benefits of credit mitigants such as cross collateralisation and cross guarantees.
For the good book, unsecured and over 100 per cent lTV lending mainly comprises lending supported by either the strength of the obligors balance sheet or a strong parent.
The Group makes use of a variety of methodologies to assess the value of property collateral, where external valuations are not available.
These include use of market indexes, models and subject matter expert judgement.
Table 1.23: LTv UK Direct Real estate unaudited Good Book Business Support Loans and advances Loans and advances gross gross 2012 2012 2012 2012 m % m % Exposures 5 million: less than 60% 3,536 42 402 4 61% to 70% 1,891 22 308 3 71% to 80% 1,738 21 495 5 81% to 100% 351 4 2,690 26 101% to 125% 229 3 1,546 15 More than 125% 23 4,362 43 unsecured 677 8 431 4 8,445 100 10,234 100 Exposures 5 million 9,591 2,474 Total 18,036 12,708 The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 152 153 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Credit Risk Wealth, Asset Finance and international Overview in 2012 Wealth, Asset Finance and international impairment charges fell significantly compared to 2011 predominantly reflecting reductions in the ireland wholesale and retail portfolio.
in the irish wholesale portfolio, 85.2 per cent 2011: 84.3 per cent is now impaired with a coverage ratio of 68.0 per cent 2011: 61.1 per cent, primarily reflecting continued deterioration in the irish commercial property market.
net exposure in ireland wholesale has reduced to 5.4 billion 2011: 8.6 billion.
in the irish retail mortgage portfolio, impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 71.2 per cent 2011: 70.4 per cent.
Table 1.24: impairment charge audited 2012 2011 change m m % Wealth 23 33 30 international: ireland retail 108 511 79 ireland wholesale 1,137 2,676 58 spain retail 51 59 14 netherlands retail 23 21 10 Asia retail 35 7 latin America and Middle East 33 65 1,321 3,339 60 Asset Finance: united Kingdom 121 200 40 Australia 15 32 53 136 232 41 Total impairment charge 1,480 3,604 59 impairment charge as a % of average advances 3.12% 6.48% 3.36 pp Table 1.25: impairment charge core unaudited 2012 2011 change m m % Wealth 23 33 30 international Asset Finance 1 Core impairment charge 22 33 33 core impairment charge as a % of average advances 0.45% 0.60% 15 bp Table 1.26: impairment charge non-core unaudited 2012 2011 change m m % Wealth international 1,321 3,339 60 Asset Finance 137 232 41 non-core impairment charge 1,458 3,571 59 non-core impairment charge as a % of average advances 3.42% 7.11% 3.69 pp Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 154 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT impaired loans and provisions Total impaired loans decreased by 4,322 million to 14,008 million compared with 18,330 million at 31 december 2011 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers decreased to 32.6 per cent from 35.6 per cent at 31 december 2011.
This is primarily driven by reductions in ireland wholesale.
impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 67.5 per cent from 61.7 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The increase was driven by the international portfolios.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 154 155 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.28: impairments on loans and advances core unaudited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Wealth 4,325 284 6.6 73 25.7 international Asset Finance 1,090 67 6.1 12 17.9 5,415 351 6.5 85 24.2 impairment provisions 85 Fair value adjustments Total core 5,330 At 31 december 2011 Wealth 4,865 231 4.7 74 32.0 international 133 14 10.5 4 28.6 Asset Finance 245 95 38.8 25 26.3 5,243 340 6.5 103 30.3 impairment provisions 103 Fair value adjustments Total core 5,140 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
Table 1.29: impairments on loans and advances non-core unaudited impaired loans impairment Loans and as a % of provisions advances to impaired closing impairment as a % of 1 customers loans advances provisions impaired loans m m % m % At 31 December 2012 Wealth international 28,702 12,800 44.6 8,786 68.6 Asset Finance 8,810 857 9.7 582 67.9 37,5 1 2 13,657 36.4 9,368 68.6 impairment provisions 9,368 Fair value adjustments 28 Total non-core 28,116 At 31 december 2011 Wealth international 35,295 16,773 47.5 10,418 62.1 Asset Finance 10,968 1,217 11.1 786 64.6 46,263 17,990 38.9 11,204 62.3 impairment provisions 11,204 Fair value adjustments 42 Total non-core 35,017 1 impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 156 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Wealth Total impaired loans increased by 53 million to 284 million compared with 231 million at 31 december 2011. impairment provisions as a percentage of closing loans and advances decreased to 25.7 per cent from 32.0 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The impairment charge for 2012 was 23 million.
The impairment charge, as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers, decreased to 0.51 per cent compared with 0.67 per cent in 2011. international Ireland Total impaired loans decreased by 3,859 million, or 24 per cent to 12,501 million compared with 16,360 million at 31 december 2011.
The reduction is driven primarily by commercial Real Estate and corporate loans.
impaired loans as a percentage of closing loans and advances decreased to 64.0 per cent from 66.0 per cent at 31 december 2011. continuing weakness in the irish real estate markets resulted in a further increase in ireland wholesale coverage in 2012 to 68.0 per cent from 61.1 per cent.
impairment charges decreased by 1,942 million to 1,245 million compared to 2011 as the rate of increase in newly impaired loans fell during 2012. impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers decreased to 5.53 per cent from 11.93 per cent in 2011.
Table 1.30: impairments on ireland loans and advances audited 2012 2011 Loans and loans and advances to impaired advances to impaired customers loans Provisions customers loans Provisions m m m m m m commercial Real Estate 7,408 6,720 4,695 10,872 9,807 6,194 corporate 5,467 4,247 2,768 6,865 5,138 2,939 Retail 6,656 1,534 1,111 7,036 1,415 1,034 Total ireland 19,531 12,501 8,574 24,773 16,360 10,167 The most significant contribution to impairment in ireland is the commercial Real Estate portfolio.
Within the commercial Real Estate portfolio, 90.7 per cent of the portfolio is now impaired compared to 90.2 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The average impairment coverage ratio has increased in the year to 69.9 per cent 63.2 per cent at 31 december 2011 reflecting the continued deterioration in the irish commercial property market.
Mortgage lending at 31 december 2012 comprised 99.5 per cent of the retail portfolio with impairment coverage on the mortgage portfolio at 71.2 per cent 2011: 70.4 per cent.
impaired loans on the retail portfolio increased by 119 million in 2012 compared to a 545 million increase in 2011.
The reduction in growth of impaired loans is primarily due to a less uncertain economic environment.
The Group continued to reduce its exposure to ireland.
Gross loans and advances reduced by 5,242 million during 2012 mainly due to write-offs of 2.5 billion, disposals of 1.4 billion and net repayments of 0.7 billion.
1,413 million of gross wholesale lending within the commercial Real Estate and corporate portfolios relates to sterling loans secured on uK property.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 156 157 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 secured loan to value analysis for commercial Real Estate lending in ireland Wholesale loan to value ratios indexed or actual if within last 18 months for the Groups largest transactions over A5 million are detailed in the table below.
in the case of impaired ireland commercial real estate exposures over 5 million there is a net property collateral shortfall of approximately 0.3 billion.
As a result of the market environment, market-based information on valuations is limited.
The Group therefore makes use of a variety of methodologies to assess the value of property collateral.
Table 1.31: LTv ireland Wholesale Commercial Real estate Loans and advances gross 2012 2012 m % Exposures A5 million: less than 60% 119 2 61% to 70% 20 71% to 80% 27 81% to 100% 165 3 101% to 125% 182 3 More than 125% 4,927 81 unsecured 674 11 6,114 100 Exposures A5 million 1,294 Total 7,408 Other international Total impaired loans decreased by 128 million to 299 million compared with 427 million at 31 december 2011 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances decreased to 3.3 per cent from 4.0 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The reduction in impaired loans is driven by latin America and Middle East.
impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans have increased in spain Retail, netherlands Retail and Asia Retail, against a backdrop of falling residential property prices.
Asset Finance united Kingdom the uK Asset Finance impairment charge reduced by 40 per cent to 121 million of which 100 per cent related to non-core assets driven by strong credit management and improving credit quality.
The retail portfolio saw more customers meeting their payment arrangements resulting in a lower proportion of people falling into arrears.
The retail impairments also benefited from debt sale activity during the course of the year.
The number of defaults in all areas of the commercial and corporate lending book was low relative to the last three years, reflecting effective previous and ongoing credit risk management actions.
Australia impaired loans decreased by 56 million to 39 million compared with 95 million at 31 december 2011 and as a percentage of closing loans and advances decreased to 1.0 per cent from 2.3 per cent at 31 december 2011.
The impairment charge has also reduced materially by 53 per cent to 15 million.
The Asset Finance business continues to benefit from strong credit management and improving credit quality supported by a resilient Australian economy.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 158 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT exposures to eurozone countries The following section summarises the Groups direct exposure to Eurozone countries at 31 december 2012.
The exposures comprise on-balance sheet exposures based on their balance sheet carrying values and off-balance sheet exposures, and are based on the country of domicile of the counterparty unless otherwise indicated.
The Group manages its exposures to individual countries through authorised country limits which take into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
in addition, the Group manages its direct risks to the selected countries by establishing and monitoring risk limits for individual banks, financial institutions, corporates and individuals.
identified indirect exposure information is also taken into account when setting limits and determining credit risk appetite for individual counterparties.
This forms part of the Groups credit analysis undertaken at least annually for counterparty and sector reviews, with interim updates performed as necessary.
interim updates would usually be triggered by specific credit events such as rating downgrades, sovereign events or other developments such as spread widening.
Examples of indirect risk which have been identified are: European banking groups with lending and other exposures to certain Eurozone countries: corporate customers with operations or significant trade in certain European jurisdictions: major travel operators known to operate in certain Eurozone countries: and international banks with custodian operations based in certain European locations.
The Group Financial stability Forum has been established in order to monitor developments within the Eurozone, carry out stress testing through detailed scenario analysis and complete appropriate due diligence on the Groups exposures.
The Group Financial stability Forum has carried out a number of scenario analyses and rehearsals to test the Groups resilience in the event of further instability in certain Eurozone countries.
The Group has developed and refined pre-determined action plans that would be executed in such scenarios.
The plans set out governance requirements and responsibilities for the key actions which would be carried out and cover risk areas such as payments, liquidity and capital, communications, suppliers and systems, legal, credit, delivery channels and products, employees and the impact on customers.
The Group has included certain amounts on a net basis to better reflect the overall risk to which the Group is exposed.
The gross iFRs reported values for the exposures to ireland, spain, Portugal, Greece and italy are detailed in the following tables.
derivative balances are included within exposures to financial institutions or corporates, as appropriate, at fair value adjusted for master netting agreements at obligor level and net of cash collateral in line with legal agreements.
Exposures in respect of reverse repurchase agreements are included on a gross iFRs basis and are disclosed based on the counterparty rather than the collateral repos and stock lending are excluded : reverse repurchase exposures are not, therefore, reduced as a result of collateral held.
Exposures to central clearing counterparties are shown net.
For multi-country asset backed securities exposures, the Group has reported exposures based on the largest country exposure.
The country of exposure for asset backed securities is based on the location of the underlying assets, which are predominantly residential mortgages, not on the domicile of the issuer.
during the year, the Group drew A13.5 billion the sterling equivalent of which at the date of drawdown was 11.2 billion under the European central Banks long-Term Refinancing Operation facility for an initial term of three years, to part fund a pool of non-core euro denominated assets.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 158 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Exposures to ireland, spain, Portugal, Greece and italy The Group continues to have minimal exposure, in aggregate, which could be considered to be direct recourse to the sovereign risk of the selected countries.
included within exposures to banks, and treated as available-for-sale assets, are covered bonds of 1.1 billion 2011: 1.7 billion.
The covered bonds are ultimately secured on a pool of mortgage assets in the countries concerned and benefit from , with an overall weighted maturity of approximately four years.
Exposures to other financial institutions relate primarily to balances held within insurance companies and funds.
no impairments are held against these exposures.
At 31 december 2012, the Groups total gross derivative asset exposure to counterparties registered in the above countries was 754 million 2011: 775 million, offset by derivative liabilities of 278 million 2011: 204 million and cash collateral held of 152 million 2011: 191 million.
Within the following detailed tables, derivative assets are included within the carrying value column, and derivative liabilities and cash collateral are included within the netting column.
Assets held by the insurance business are shareholder assets and are held outside the with-profits and unit-linked funds.
Approximately 106 million 2011: 127 million of these exposures relate to direct investments where the issuer is resident in ireland, spain, Portugal, Greece or italy and the credit rating is consistent with the tight credit criteria defined under the appropriate investment mandate.
The remaining exposures relate to interests in two funds domiciled in ireland and administered by scottish Widows investment Partnership the Global liquidity Fund and the short-Term Fund where in line with the investment mandates, cash is invested in the money markets.
For these funds, the exposure is analysed on a look through basis to the underlying assets held and the insurance business pro rata share of these assets rather than treating all the holding in the fund as exposure to ireland.
Within the above exposures there are no sovereign exposures.
The Group continued to reduce its exposure to these countries and exposures have been proactively managed down in line with its risk appetite.
The Groups total exposure has reduced 24 per cent from 24,614 million to 18,703 million.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 160 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.33: ireland exposures unaudited 31 December 2012 31 december 2011 Carrying carrying value netting net value netting net m m m m m m sovereign debt Financial institutions banks: Amortised cost 47 47 46 46 net trading assets 7 7 Available-for-sale 53 53 136 136 derivatives 188 180 8 216 191 25 295 180 115 398 191 207 Financial institutions other: Amortised cost 557 557 255 255 net trading assets 86 86 5 5 derivatives 4 3 1 12 12 647 3 644 272 272 Asset backed securities: Amortised cost 216 216 221 221 Available-for-sale 89 89 155 155 305 305 376 376 corporate: Amortised cost 5,400 5,400 7,949 7,949 derivatives 39 1 38 32 1 31 Off balance sheet exposures 534 534 914 914 5,973 1 5,972 8,895 1 8,894 Personal: Amortised cost 5,559 5,559 6,027 6,027 insurance assets 111 111 68 68 Total 12,890 184 12,706 16,036 192 15,844 The Group held impairment provisions of 6,597 million 2011: 7,961 million against corporate amortised cost exposures and 1,111 million 2011: 1,034 million against personal amortised cost exposures.
34 million 2011: 170 million was included in reserves in respect of available-for-sale securities included in the table above.
The Group has exposures to a structured vehicle incorporated in ireland.
in accordance with the reporting protocol outlined above, the exposures classified as Bonds have been reported on the basis of the underlying country of risk, while other exposures have been reported against the country of registration of the structured vehicle.
The movement in the period within exposures to financial institutions is primarily due to reverse repurchase transactions secured primarily on uK gilts.
see page 153 for further details on irish corporate and personal exposures.
The off-balance sheet exposures to corporates are principally undrawn facilities.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 160 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.34: Spain exposures unaudited 31 December 2012 31 december 2011 Carrying carrying value netting net value netting net m m m m m m sovereign debt: direct sovereign exposures 5 5 17 17 central bank balances 14 14 35 35 19 19 52 52 Financial institutions banks: Amortised cost 32 32 33 33 Available-for-sale 1,055 1,055 1,548 1,548 net trading assets 64 64 59 59 derivatives 197 178 19 175 123 52 1,348 178 1,170 1,815 123 1,692 Financial institutions other: net trading assets 7 7 7 7 Asset backed securities: Amortised cost 31 31 211 211 Available-for-sale 101 101 164 164 132 132 375 375 corporate: Amortised cost 1,427 1,427 2,043 2,043 net trading assets 1 1 20 20 derivatives 197 5 192 174 7 167 Off balance sheet exposures 490 490 725 725 2,115 5 2,110 2,962 7 2,955 Personal: Amortised cost 1,414 1,414 1,615 1,615 Off balance sheet exposures 58 58 34 34 1,472 1,472 1,649 1,649 insurance assets 25 25 39 39 Total 5,118 183 4,935 6,899 130 6,769 The Group held impairment provisions of 112 million 2011: 149 million against corporate amortised cost exposures and 105 million 2011: 70 million against personal amortised cost exposures.
220 million 2011: 349 million was included in reserves in respect of available-for-sale securities included in the table above.
included within exposures to banks, and treated as available-for-sale assets are covered bonds of 1.1 billion 2011: 1.4 billion, which are ultimately secured on a pool of mortgage assets in the countries concerned and benefit from  and have an overall weighted maturity of approximately four years.
The Group has credit default swap positions referenced to banking groups domiciled in spain net short of 4.1 million, which are included in the balances detailed above, and unutilised and uncommitted money market lines and repo facilities of approximately 1.0 billion 2011: 1.1 billion in respect of spanish banks.
Bank limits have been closely monitored with amounts and tenors reduced where appropriate.
The corporate exposure in spain is mainly local lending 82 per cent of the total spanish exposures comprising corporate loans and project finance facilities 86 per cent and commercial real estate portfolio 14 per cent.
Personal exposures within spain are predominantly secured residential mortgages, where about half of the borrowers are expatriates.
impaired lending represented 7 per cent 2011: 6 per cent of the portfolio, with a coverage ratio of 90 per cent 2011: 64 per cent.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 162 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.35: Portugal exposures unaudited 31 December 2012 31 december 2011 Carrying carrying value netting net value netting net m m m m m m sovereign debt Financial institutions banks: Amortised cost 14 14 17 17 net trading assets 20 20 Available-for-sale 83 83 124 124 derivatives 5 4 1 7 6 1 122 4 118 148 6 142 Financial institutions other: net trading assets 8 8 Asset backed securities: Amortised cost 119 119 208 208 Available-for-sale 105 105 133 133 224 224 341 341 corporate: Amortised cost 86 86 100 100 derivatives 13 13 Off balance sheet exposures 101 101 196 196 187 187 309 309 Personal: Amortised cost 10 10 11 11 insurance assets Total 543 4 539 817 6 811 The Group held impairment provisions of 21 million 2011: 25 million against corporate amortised cost exposures.
55 million 2011: 160 million was included in reserves in respect of available-for-sale securities included in the table above.
Exposures comprise lending to corporates, including a small amount of commercial real estate exposure.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 162 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.36: Greece exposures unaudited 31 December 2012 31 december 2011 Carrying carrying value netting net value netting net m m m m m m sovereign debt Financial institutions banks Financial institutions other Asset backed securities: Amortised cost 32 32 Available-for-sale 23 23 55 55 corporate: Amortised cost 249 249 364 364 derivatives 12 12 19 19 Off balance sheet exposures 16 16 48 48 277 277 431 431 Personal insurance assets Total 277 277 486 486 The Group held impairment provisions of 40 million 2011: 43 million against corporate amortised cost exposures.
in 2011, 21 million was included in reserves in respect of available-for-sale securities included in the table above.
The exposures in Greece principally relate to shipping loans to Greek shipping companies where the assets are generally secured and the vessels operate in international waters: repayment is mainly dependent on international trade and the industry is less sensitive to the Greek economy.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 164 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.37: italy exposures unaudited 31 December 2012 31 december 2011 Carrying carrying value netting net value netting net m m m m m m sovereign debt: direct sovereign exposures 5 5 16 16 Financial institutions banks: Amortised cost 22 22 41 41 Available-for-sale 180 180 net trading assets 19 19 188 188 derivatives 58 55 3 91 67 24 99 55 44 500 67 433 Financial institutions other: net trading assets 17 17 Asset backed securities: Amortised cost 26 26 Available-for-sale 10 10 13 13 10 10 39 39 corporate: Amortised cost 76 76 86 86 net trading assets 4 4 17 17 derivatives 54 4 50 36 36 Off balance sheet exposures 20 20 13 13 154 4 150 152 152 Personal insurance assets 37 37 47 47 Total 305 59 246 771 67 704 The Group held impairment provisions of 2 million 2011: 1 million against corporate amortised cost exposures.
nil 2011: 17 million was included in reserves in respect of available-for-sale securities included in the table above.
in addition to the above balances there are unutilised and uncommitted money market lines and repo facilities of approximately 0.2 billion 2011: 0.6 billion predominantly in respect of italian banks.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 164 165 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Exposures to Eurozone countries in addition to the exposures detailed above, the Group has the following exposures to sovereign, financial institutions, asset backed securities, corporates and personal customers in the following Eurozone countries: Table 1.38: Other eurozone exposures unaudited Sovereign debt Direct Cash at Asset Financial institutions sovereign central backed insurance exposures banks Banks Other securities Corporate Personal assets Total m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 netherlands 1 33,232 478 2 268 2,207 5,649 977 42,814 France 6 853 77 3,226 312 1,457 5,931 Germany 284 1,809 389 414 400 2,117 977 6,390 luxembourg 2 834 1,841 71 2,748 Belgium 309 25 568 64 966 Finland 16 43 214 273 Malta 218 218 cyprus 2 102 104 Austria 3 73 76 slovenia 35 35 Estonia 2 2 slovakia 291 35,043 2,085 1,275 745 10,397 5,961 3,760 59,557 At 31 december 2011 netherlands 9,594 712 173 176 4,105 6,226 960 21,946 France 217 1,517 143 525 3,796 295 1,841 8,334 Germany 656 203 1,291 100 703 2,532 1 1,263 6,749 luxembourg 2 3 4 442 2,828 568 3,847 Belgium 74 4 404 11 1,617 57 2,167 Finland 60 56 147 263 Malta 2 305 307 cyprus 6 204 210 Austria 2 202 5 97 306 slovenia 56 56 Estonia 2 2 slovakia 951 9,804 4,254 874 1,404 15,542 6,522 4,836 44,187 Total balances with other Eurozone countries have increased from 44,187 million to 59,557 million.
This is due to an increase in sovereign debt balances held, which primarily relate to central bank balances held for regulatory liquidity purposes.
Excluding cash at central banks, the remaining overall exposures have reduced by 29 per cent from 34,383 million to 24,514 million.
derivatives with sovereigns and sovereign referenced credit default swaps are insignificant.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 166 167 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Eurozone redenomination risk Redenomination risk arises from the uncertainty over how an exiting member state would deal with pre-incurred euro contractual liabilities and, in particular, whether it or a competent European body legislates to re-denominate such liabilities into a post-euro currency.
it is generally expected that an exiting member state would introduce a new national currency and determine an opening rate of exchange, which would then change when trading commences in the new currency, exposing the holders of the new currency to the risk of changes in the value of the new currency against the Euro.
Although considered less likely, multiple member exits may also take place, and in the case of a total dissolution of the Eurozone, the Euro may cease to be a valid currency, with the possibility of all states re-introducing their own currencies.
The Group has considered redenomination risk in respect of its exposures to ireland, spain, Portugal, Greece and italy and in the event of a member exit believes that the risks can be broadly classified as follows: The Group is not significantly exposed to the redenomination impact of a Greek exit from the Euro as Greek-related exposures are very limited and are in any case predominantly ship finance facilities denominated in us dollar or sterling with contracts subject to English law.
The Groups exposures to italy, ireland, Portugal and spain are considered to be at potential risk of redenomination.
Redenomination of contractual liabilities depends on, amongst other things, the terms of relevant contracts, the contents of the legislation passed by the exiting member state, the governing law and jurisdiction of the contract and the nationality of the parties of the contracts.
The Group has undertaken actions to mitigate redenomination risk for both assets and liabilities where possible, but it is not clear that such mitigation will be effective in the event of a member exit.
The introduction of one or more new currencies would be likely to lead to significant operational issues for clearing and payment systems.
The Group continues to work actively with central banks, regulators and with the main clearing and payment systems to better understand and mitigate the impact of these risks on the Group and its customers.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 166 167 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 environmental risk management The Groups policies and procedures ensure it manages the environmental impact of its lending activities.
The Group wide credit Risk Principles require all credit risk to be incurred with due regard to environmental legislation and the Groups code of Business Responsibility.
since 2011, an electronic environmental risk screening system has been the primary mechanism for assessing environmental risk in commercial Banking.
This provides real time screening of location specific and sector based risks that may be present in a transaction.
Where a risk is identified, the transaction is referred to the Groups expert in-house Environmental Risk team for further review and assessment, as outlined below.
Additional support is provided by the Groups panel of environmental consultants as required.
Table 1.39: Environmental risk management approach Group Credit Principles Environmental Risk Initial transaction Detailed Environmental Environmental screening review due diligence risk approval Credit Policies Relationship In-house team, Panel including any teams retained consultancy consultants conditions Business Unit Precesses Sector briefings Supporting tools Legislation briefings colleagues are trained in environmental risk management as part of the Groups standard credit risk training course, and bespoke training can be provided upon request.
supporting this training, a range of documents are provided to all colleagues online including environmental risk theory, procedural guidance, and information on environmental legislation and sector-specific environmental impacts.
Project Finance: Equator Principles The Group has been a signatory to the Equator Principles since 2006.
The Equator Principles support the Groups approach to assessing and managing environmental and social issues in project finance.
Project finance is often used to fund the development and construction of major infrastructure and industrial projects.
The Equator Principles are applicable to project finance transactions above us$10 million and provide a framework to support responsible decision making.
The Group has a robust, Group wide approach to assess, monitor and report Equator Principle transactions.
it also provides ongoing training for lending officers and more in-depth training for colleagues working in project finance is offered.
Projects are categorised depending on the level of perceived environmental and social risk and magnitude of impact they pose.
The categories are as follows: category A Projects with potential significant adverse social or environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented: category B Projects with potential limited adverse social or environmental impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures: and category c Projects with minimal or no social or environmental impacts.
lending officers are responsible for undertaking initial classification of transactions that qualify under the Equator Principles.
Their assessments are subject to further review by the in-house Environmental Risk team and retained consultant, and for higher risk transactions by the Equator Principles Review Group, comprising experts from both the Risk and Project Finance teams.
This ensures that each transaction is compliant and is consistent with the Groups environmental risk policy.
A range of training and support materials are provided to risk and transactional colleagues to ensure that they are familiar with the requirements of the Principles.
since 2011, the Group has participated in the Equator Principles strategic Review process Equator Principles iii which is examining the scope of application, transparency, implementation and governance of the Principles.
The process is nearing completion, and it is envisaged that the final version of Equator Principles iii will be published in 2013.
The Group is currently reviewing its approach to the Equator Principles to ensure that it fully complies with the new requirements once introduced.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 168 169 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.40: Status of Categorised Projects unaudited A B C Total completed 2 13 5 20 in progress 3 3 not completed 2 16 5 23 Table 1.41: Status of Projects by industry unaudited energy and Renewables infrastructure Utilities Total completed 9 11 20 in progress 2 1 3 not completed 11 12 23 2012 has seen a continuation of the Groups involvement in the development of low carbon electricity generation with significant lending in support of Government targets for decarbonisation of the power sector.
The Groups commitments to renewable energy now support over 1700MW of capacity, sufficient to power around 2 million homes.
in addition, the Group continues to be the largest provider of finance after the European investment Bank to the offshore transmission ownership scheme designed by the Government to encourage investment in large scale offshore wind farms and helping create significant investment and jobs in uK energy infrastructure.
Table 1.42: industry of Completed Transactions unaudited no.
m Renewables 9 254 infrastructure 11 651 Energy and utilities 20 905 Table 1.43: Geography of Completed Transactions unaudited A B C Total uK 5 4 9 Americas 7 7 Europe 1 1 Australasia 2 1 3 2 13 5 20 during 2012, no transaction was declined on environmental or social risk grounds, nor approved with exceptions.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 168 169 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Conduct risk Definition conduct risk is defined as the risk of customer detriment or censure and or a reduction in earnings value, through financial or reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment or business conduct.
Risk appetite A more customer-centric culture The Group has zero risk appetite for systemic unfair customer outcomes arising from product where we do the right things.
design, sales or other after sales processes.
This appetite is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
To achieve this, the Group has policies, processes and standards which provide the framework for businesses and colleagues to operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes which apply to the Group and its activities.
exposures conduct risk affects all aspects of the Groups operations, all types of customers and other stakeholders.
There is currently a high level of scrutiny regarding conduct risk and treatment of customers by financial institutions from the press, politicians and regulatory bodies.
The Group has been actively managing conduct issues as part of its conduct strategy and has undertaken a range of actions in respect of both front and back book of business.
Work continues to close back book issues such as payment protection insurance and drive down complaint volumes.
An ongoing focus on the delivery of fair outcomes, business standards and the implementation of the conduct strategy, which will make greater use of technology and metrics to determine inherent conduct risks, will facilitate earlier detection and mitigation of conduct issues.
Measurement conduct risks are measured against a set of risk appetite measures, with appropriate limits and triggers, which have been approved by the Board.
Metrics include assessments of products, sales, aftersales and fair outcomes for customers.
These appetites and metrics are tracked within the Groups three lines of defence control framework.
Business areas track and report the conduct risks in their business.
These reports are challenged by Risk division and contribute to reporting on conduct risk provided to the Group compliance and conduct committee, the Group Risk committee and the Board Risk committee.
Mitigation Mitigation is undertaken across the Group and consists of the following components: Risks are assessed by the business and controls put in place to mitigate them.
Oversight and assurance of conduct risks within the business.
Theme reviews to assess customer treatment and fair outcomes.
senior business leaders monitor the progress of these assessments and mitigations.
Material risks and issues are escalated to Group-level bodies which challenge the business on its management of risks and issues.
Mandated policies and processes require minimum control frameworks, management information and standards to be implemented.
Monitoring Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk division where it is aggregated and reported at Group level.
The report forms the basis of challenge to the business at the monthly Group compliance and conduct Risk committee.
This committee may escalate matters to the chief Risk Officer, or higher committees.
The report also forms the basis of the regulatory sections in the Groups consolidated risk reporting.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 170 171 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Market risk Definition Market risk is defined as the risk that unfavourable market moves including changes in and increased volatility of interest rates, market-implied inflation rates, credit spreads and prices for bonds, foreign exchange rates, equity, property and commodity prices and other instruments, The Groups trading activity lead to reductions in earnings and or value.
is small relative to its peers and the Group does not have a Risk appetite programme of proprietary trading The Groups overall appetite for market risk is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
With the support of the Group Asset and liability committee, the Group chief Executive activities.
allocates this risk appetite across the Group.
individual members of the Group Executive committee ensure that market risk appetite is further cascaded to an appropriate level within their areas of responsibility.
exposures Trading portfolios The Groups trading activity is small relative to its peers and the Group does not have a programme of proprietary trading activities.
The average 95 per cent 1-day trading Value at Risk VaR was 7.0 million for the year to 31 december 2012 2011: 6 million.
Most of the Groups trading activity is undertaken to meet the requirements of wholesale and retail customers for foreign exchange and interest rate products.
Banking activities The Groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse movements in interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity prices, with little or no exposure to commodity risk.
The volatility of market values can be affected by both the transparency of prices and the amount of liquidity in the market for the relevant asset.
Market risk in the Groups retail portfolios and in the Groups capital and funding activities arises from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities.
interest rate risk arises predominantly from the mismatch between interest rate insensitive liabilities and interest rate sensitive assets.
Risk also arises from the margin of interbank rates over central bank rates.
A further banking risk arises from competitive pressures on product terms in existing loans and deposits, which sometimes restricts the Group in its ability to change interest rates applying to customers in response to changes in interbank and central bank rates.
Foreign currency risk also arises from the Groups investment in its overseas operations.
net investment exposures are disclosed see note 55 on page 319 and it is Group policy to hedge non-functional currency exposures.
insurance portfolios The Groups insurance activities also expose it to market risk, encompassing interest rate, exchange rate, property, credit spreads and equity risk: With Profit Funds are managed with the aim of generating rates of return consistent with policyholders expectations and this involves the mismatch of assets and liabilities.
unit-linked liabilities are matched with the same assets that are used to define the liability but future fee income is dependent upon the performance of those assets.
This forms part of the Value of in-force business, see note 29 on page 256.
For other insurance liabilities the aim is to invest in assets such that the cash flows on investments will match those on the projected future liabilities.
it is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing of insured events is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the required maturities.
As a result, the cash flows cannot be precisely matched and so sensitivity tests are used to test the extent of the mismatch.
Further, in assessing the current value of these future cashflows, it is not always possible to achieve equally resilient levels of matching between the different capital measures that are used to assess regulatory solvency.
surplus assets are held primarily in four portfolios: a in the long-term funds within the life insurance companies: b in the corresponding shareholder funds: c in investment portfolios within the general insurance business: and d within the main fund of Heidelberger lebensversicherung AG.
defined benefit pension schemes The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are exposed to significant risks from the constituent parts of their assets and from the present value of their liabilities, primarily equity and real interest rate risk.
For further information on defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities please refer to note 42 on page 271.
Measurement Market risk is managed within a Board approved framework and risk appetite.
A variety of risk measures are used such as: sensitivity based measures e. g. sensitivity to 1 basis point move in interest rates.
Percentile based measures e. g. VaR.
scenario stress based measures e. g. single factor stresses, macroeconomic scenarios.
in addition, profit and loss triggers are used in the Trading Books in order to ensure that mitigating action is considered if profit and loss becomes volatile.
Both VaR and standard stress measures are used in setting divisional market risk appetite limits and triggers.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 170 171 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Although an important market standard measure of risk, VaR has limitations.
These arise from the use of limited historical data, an assumed distribution, defined holding periods, set confidence intervals and frequency of calculation.
The exposure level at the confidence interval does not convey any information about potential losses which may arise if this level is exceeded.
A 95 per cent confidence interval with a 1-day holding period is equivalent to an expected 1 in 20 day loss.
The Group recognises these limitations and supplements the use of VaR with a variety of other techniques more suited to the nature of the business activity.
These include interest rate repricing gaps, open exchange positions and sensitivity analysis.
stress testing and scenario analysis are also used in certain portfolios and at Group level, to simulate the impact of extreme conditions and to understand more fully the interdependence of different parts of the balance sheet.
These measures are reviewed regularly by senior management to inform effective decision making.
Trading portfolios Based on the 1-day 95 per cent confidence level, assuming positions are held overnight and using observation periods of the preceding 300 business days, the VaR for the years ended 31 december 2012 and 2011 based on the Groups global trading positions is detailed in table 1.44.
The risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the potential loss in earnings given the confidence level and assumptions noted above.
The total and average trading VaR does not assume any diversification benefit across the five risk types, which now include inflation.
The maximum and minimum VaR reported for each risk category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the maximum and minimum VaR reported as a whole.
The Group internally uses VaR as the primary measure for all trading book positions arising from short term market facing activity.
Trading book VaR 1-day 99 per cent is compared daily against both forecast and actual profit and loss.
Table 1.44: Trading portfolios: vaR 1-day 95 per cent confidence level audited Most of the Groups trading activity is undertaken to meet the requirements of wholesale and retail customers for foreign exchange and interest rate products.
Close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m At 31 December 2012 interest rate risk 2.8 4.2 7.4 1.9 Foreign exchange risk 0.3 0.4 1.0 0.02 Equity risk credit spread risk 0.8 1.9 3.6 0.7 inflation risk 0.5 0.5 1.3 0.1 Total VaR 4.4 7.0 11.4 4.1 close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m At 31 december 2011 interest rate risk 2.6 3.0 5.9 1.8 Foreign exchange risk 0.4 0.5 1.6 0.2 Equity risk credit spread risk 3.1 2.3 4.5 1.0 inflation risk 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.1 Total VaR 6.3 6.0 9.7 4.1 Open market risk for the trading operations continues to be low with respect to the size of the Group and similar institutions, reflecting the fact that the Groups trading operations are customer-centric, focusing on hedging and recycling client risks.
Banking activities Market risk in non-trading books consists almost entirely of exposure to changes in interest rates including the margin between interbank and central bank rates.
This is the potential impact on earnings and value that could occur when, if rates fall, liabilities cannot be re-priced as quickly or by as much as assets: or when, if rates rise, assets cannot be re-priced as quickly or by as much as liabilities.
Risk exposure is monitored monthly using, primarily, market value sensitivity.
This methodology considers all re-pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that would result from a set of defined interest rate shocks.
Where re-pricing maturity is based on assumptions about customer behaviour these assumptions are also reviewed monthly.
A limit structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about customer behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
The following table shows, split by material currency, the Groups sensitivities at 31 december 2012 to an immediate up and down 25 basis points change to all interest rates.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 172 173 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.45: Banking activities: Market value sensitivity audited 2012 2011 Up 25bps Down 25bps up 25bps down 25bps m m m m sterling 104.9 108.3 53.1 54.7 us dollar 14.9 16.7 0.4 0.3 Euro 14.5 8.5 15.7 15.9 Australian dollar 1.0 1.0 1.8 1.8 Other 0.1 0.1 1.4 1.3 Total 135.2 134.4 72.4 74.0 The Group always seeks to maintain minimal interest rate re-pricing mismatch in its banking books.
At any point in time, however, some small level of transitory risk will always exist pending, for example, contrary offsetting customer flows and the efficient hedging of the net position with the external market.
in addition, during 2012, a number of risks to income have been managed.
These include the potential risk of liBOR rising relative to the Bank of England Base Rate and the risk to net interest Margin of all interest rates remaining lower for longer than is implied by current market prices.
such strategic hedges are executed only with the explicit approval of the Group Asset and liability committee.
Overall this hedge portfolio has varied during 2012 as the Group Asset and liability committee, in response to changing economic conditions, has periodically reviewed and revised its opinion as to which of these various risks is the most likely to crystallise.
Base case market value is calculated on the basis of the Groups balance sheet with re-pricing dates adjusted according to behavioural assumptions.
The above sensitivities show how this projected market value would change in response to an immediate parallel shift to all relevant interest rates market and administered.
This is a risk based disclosure and the amounts shown would be amortised in the income statement over the duration of the portfolio.
The measure, however, is simplified in that it assumes all interest rates, for all currencies and maturities, move at the same time and by the same amount.
insurance portfolios Market risks within the insurance business are measured using a variety of techniques including stress and scenario testing and, where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
current and potential future market risk exposures are assessed and aggregated using risk measures based on 1-in-200 year stresses for insurances individual capital Assessment icA and other supporting measures, including, profit before tax, where appropriate.
The stresses include sensitivities on the risk-free rate, equity investment volatility, widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds and an increase in illiquidity premia, as applied to profit before tax and set out in note 38 on page 269. defined benefit pension schemes Management of the assets of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is the responsibility of the scheme Trustees, who also appoint the scheme Actuaries to perform the triennial valuations.
The Group monitors its defined benefit pension exposure holistically using a variety of metrics including accounting and economic deficits and contribution rates.
These and other measures are regularly reviewed by the Group Asset and liability committee and the Group Market Risk committee and used in discussions with the Trustees, through whom any risk management and mitigation activity must be conducted.
The schemes main exposures are to equity risk, real rate risk and credit spread risk.
Accounting for the defined benefit pension schemes under international Accounting standard iAs 19 spreads any adverse impacts of these risks over time.
Mitigation Various mitigation activities are undertaken across the Group to manage portfolios and seek to ensure they remain within approved limits.
Trading portfolios and Banking activities Management of the balance sheet is centralised and overseen by the Group Asset and liability committee.
interest rate risk arising from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities, and from the mismatch between interest rate insensitive assets and interest rate sensitive liabilities, is managed centrally.
The corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the course of providing services to their customers.
All non-structural foreign exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the trading area where they are monitored and controlled within the trading risk appetite and any residual risk is hedged in the market.
insurance portfolios investment holdings are diversified across markets and, within markets, across sectors.
Holdings are diversified to minimise specific risk and the relative size of large individual exposures is monitored closely.
For assets held outside unit-linked funds, investments are only permitted in countries and markets which are sufficiently regulated and liquid.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 172 173 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Monitoring The Group Asset and liability committee and the Group Market Risk committee regularly review high level market risk exposure, as part of the wider risk management framework.
They also make recommendations to the Group chief Executive concerning overall market risk appetite and market risk policy.
Exposures at lower levels of delegation are monitored at various intervals according to their volatility, from daily in the case of trading portfolios to monthly or quarterly in the case of less volatile portfolios.
levels of exposures compared to approved limits and triggers are monitored by Risk division and where appropriate, escalation procedures are in place.
Trading portfolios and Banking activities Trading is restricted to a number of specialist centres, the most important centre being the treasury and trading business in london.
These centres also manage market risk in the wholesale non-trading portfolios, both in the uK and internationally.
The level of exposure is strictly controlled and monitored within approved limits.
Active management of the wholesale portfolios is necessary to meet customer requirements and changing market circumstances.
Market risk in the Groups retail portfolios and in the Groups capital and funding activities is managed centrally within triggers defined in the Group policy for interest rate risk in the banking book, which is reviewed and approved annually.
insurance portfolios Market risk exposures from the insurance business are controlled via approved investment policies and triggers set with reference to the Groups overall risk appetite and regularly reviewed by the Group Market Risk committee: The With Profit Funds are managed in accordance with the relevant funds principles and practices of financial management and legal requirements.
The investment strategy for other insurance liabilities is determined by the term and nature of the underlying liabilities and asset liability matching positions are actively monitored.
Actuarial tools are used to project and match the cash flows.
investment strategy for surplus assets held in excess of liabilities takes account of the legal, regulatory and internal business requirements for capital to be held to support the business now and in the future.
defined benefit pension schemes The Group agrees strategies for the overall mix of pension assets with the defined benefit pension scheme Trustees.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 174 175 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Operational risk Definition Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events.
The Group has implemented an Operational Risk Framework which embraces the risk The Group continues life-cycle of identification: measurement and assessment: management via appropriate to operate a robust control mitigants and controls: and monitoring and reporting.
To ensure the rigour of the Operational environment with regular Risk Framework, the Group defines operational risks in the form of a number of discrete categories, the principal ones being: review and investment.
Customer Processes The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, resulting from poor externally facing business processes.
customer process risk includes customer transaction and processing errors due to incorrect capturing of customer information and or system failure.
Security The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, resulting from theft of or damage to the Groups assets, the loss, corruption, misuse or theft of the Groups information assets or threats or actual harm to the Groups people.
This also includes risks relating to terrorist acts, other acts of war, geopolitical, pandemic or other such events.
iT Systems and resilience The risk of reductions in earnings and or value through financial or reputational loss resulting from the failure to develop, deliver or maintain effective iT solutions.
This includes the resilience of the Groups iT infrastructure and systems, rigorous change control processes to minimise the risk of incidents impacting their availability, and formal business continuity and recovery arrangements which are designed and tested to evidence the recoverability of key services within prescribed timescales.
significant business-wide incidents are managed via an incident management process, which is subject to frequent testing.
Supplier Management The risk of reductions in earnings and or value through financial or reputational loss from services with outsourced partners or third-party suppliers.
Risk Appetite The Group has developed an impact on earnings approach to operational risk appetite.
This involves looking at how much the Group could lose due to operational risk losses at various levels of certainty.
in setting operational risk appetite, the Group looks at both impact on solvency and the Groups reputation.
Appetite is defined and monitored relative to a number of key indicators, including the size and numbers of material events, and the amounts of operational risk losses that have arisen.
exposures The Groups success depends on its ability to attract, retain and develop high calibre talent.
Achievement of this aim cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of ongoing regulatory and public interest in remuneration practices.
Macroeconomic conditions and negative media attention on the financial services industry may also adversely impact employee retention, colleague sentiment and engagement.
The continuing structural consolidation and the sale of part of the branch network under Project Verde may result in disruption of senior managements ability to lead and manage the Group effectively.
The level and impact of change is managed via robust change management governance and a consolidated strategic change Plan.
There are separate Governance arrangements in place in Project Verde to oversee the impacts of the divestment on the retained business customers, operations and controls.
The Groups businesses are dependent on processing and reporting accurately and efficiently a high volume of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products and services, in different currencies and subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes.
The complexity of these operations presents potential risks.
in addition, any breach in security of the Groups systems could disrupt its business, result in the disclosure of confidential information and create significant financial and legal exposure.
Terrorist acts, other acts of war or hostility, geopolitical, pandemic or other such events and responses to those acts events may create economic and political uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on uK and international macroeconomic conditions generally, and more specifically on the Groups results of operations, financial condition or prospects in ways that cannot necessarily be predicted.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 174 175 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Measurement The Group manages its operational risks via a risk framework which includes definition, monitoring and measurement against appetite targets and thresholds.
Appetites are defined with limits and triggers which are approved by the Board and which are regularly reviewed and monitored by the Group Operational Risk committee.
The Group monitors events and losses by size, business unit and internal risk categories.
The table below shows high level loss and event trends using Basel ii categories.
Table 1.46: Operational risk events by risk category unaudited % of total volume % of total losses 2012 2011 2012 2011 Business disruption and system failures 1.08 1.03 1.46 1.63 clients, products and business practices 15.27 18.89 58.65 54.40 damage to physical assets 0.32 0.16 0.24 0.26 Employee practices and workplace safety 0.14 0.68 0.10 0.23 Execution, delivery and process management 24.90 29.67 27.19 28.65 External fraud 58.02 48.89 11.99 12.98 internal fraud 0.27 0.68 0.37 1.85 Total 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 in 2012, the highest frequency of events occurred in External Fraud 58.0 per cent and Execution, delivery and Process Management 24.9 per cent.
clients, Products and Business Practices accounted for 58.7 per cent of losses 54.4 per cent in 2011.
The continued high proportion of losses in this category is driven by legacy issues.
The operational risk profile of the Group as a whole and of individual business areas is regularly reviewed within the overarching three lines of defence control framework.
Business area reports are reviewed and challenged at Risk division level, whilst audit and assurance teams ensure that all levels of reporting are subject to rigorous scrutiny.
Operational risk appetites and actual exposures are used by the Group to calculate the appropriate holding of operational risk regulatory capital under the internal capital Adequacy Assessment Process icAAP.
The Group calculates its operational risk capital requirements using the standardised Approach TsA, which the Basel committee states as being appropriate for an internationally active bank.
Mitigation Operational risk is relevant to every aspect of the Groups business and activities.
The Groups operational risk framework consists of the following key components: identification and categorisation of the key operational risks facing a business area, including defining risk appetite: Risk assessment, including impact assessment of financial and non-financial impacts e. g. reputational risk for each of the key risks to which the business area is exposed: control assessment, evaluating the effectiveness of the control framework covering each of the key risks to which the business area is exposed: loss and incident management, capturing actions to manage any losses facing a business area: The development of key risk indicators for management reporting, including the monitoring of risk appetite: Oversight and assurance of the risk management framework in businesses: and scenarios for estimation of potential loss exposures for material risks.
The Group purchases insurance to mitigate certain operational risk events.
Monitoring Monitoring and reporting is undertaken at Board, Group and business area committee levels, in accordance with delegated limits of authority which are themselves regularly reviewed and refreshed.
Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk division where it is aggregated at Group level and a report prepared.
The report is discussed at the monthly Group Operational Risk committee, and matters can be escalated to the chief Risk Officer, or higher committees, if appropriate.
A combination of systems, monthly reports from business areas, and oversight and challenge from the Risk division ensures that key risk measures are presented and debated on a monthly basis to an Executive audience.
The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with recommendations being made to the Groups senior management annually prior to each renewal.
insurers are monitored on an ongoing basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process is in place to manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
The Group has adopted a formal approach to operational risk event escalation.
This involves the identification of an event, an assessment of the materiality of the event in accordance with a risk event impact matrix and appropriate escalation.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 176 177 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT People risk Definition People risk is defined as the risk that the Group fails to lead, manage and enable colleagues to deliver to customers, shareholders and regulators leading to reductions in earnings and or value.
The quality, effectiveness and engagement of Risk appetite colleagues are fundamental The Groups appetite for people risk is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The to the Groups successful delivery high level appetite is described as: The Group leads responsibly and proficiently, manages people resource effectively, supports and develops colleague talent, and meets legal and of its strategy.
regulatory obligations related to its people.
To achieve this, the Group has developed and implemented policies and processes that provide a framework where the Groups businesses and colleagues can operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes that apply to the Group and its activities.
exposures The major sources of people risk over the course of the next year can be grouped into four key areas: The ongoing divestment of the banks branch network under project Verde continues to stretch resources in parts of the Group and increase operational complexity.
increased regulatory scrutiny of incentive and remuneration practices, and Approved Persons following recent changes to domestic and international regulatory structures.
colleague engagement, in the context of macroeconomic conditions, Group restructuring, and continued media scrutiny.
Political and regulatory scrutiny of sales practices, culture and ethical behaviours within the financial services industry will remain a key risk to the Groups strategic direction for the foreseeable future.
Measurement People risk is measured through a series of quantitative and qualitative indicators, calibrated against the Groups risk appetite and monitored on a monthly basis via the Groups risk reporting structure.
Mitigation The Group undertakes a variety of programmes which aim to manage its people risks: there are currently four key areas of activity: The Group focuses on leadership and colleague retention, including initiatives and strategies to attract, develop and retain high-calibre colleagues and that cross-Group succession planning is well implemented.
The Group places considerable emphasis on its responsibilities arising from the FsAs Approved Persons regime, Remuneration code and other people-focused regulatory requirements: this includes dedicating resources across the Group, and the provision of training, guidance and oversight of senior managements knowledge and delivery of their accountabilities.
The Group continues to develop colleagues awareness of their responsibilities in managing risk in their role through the embedding of codes of Personal and Business Responsibility which ensure a strong focus on fair customer outcomes and support the effective management of the Groups overall risk profile.
Finally, the Group takes a proactive approach in fostering an ethical banking model and enforcing against lapses in ethical behaviour, through strong management of staff incentive adjustments, effective people risk and performance management, and promoting strong risk-based behaviours within its culture.
Monitoring People risks from across the Group are reported through the first line of defence.
Key people risks are then escalated to the relevant operational or regulatory oversight committees.
Key people risks are assessed in the context of the Groups wider risk profile, and tracked to remediation.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 176 177 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Liquidity and funding risk Definition liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments as they fall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
Funding risk is defined We have significantly as the risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources of funding or strengthened our liquidity the funding structure is inefficient.
and funding position, Risk appetite leaving the Group liquidity and funding risk appetite for the banking businesses is set by the Board and this well positioned statement of the Groups overall appetite for liquidity risk is reviewed and approved annually by for growth.
With the support of the Group Asset and liability committee GAlcO, the Group chief Executive allocates this risk appetite across the Group.
Risk is reported against appetite through various metrics that enable the Group to manage liquidity and funding constraints.
The Group chief Executive, assisted by GAlcO regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
exposure liquidity exposure represents the amount of potential outflows in any future period less expected inflows.
liquidity is considered from both an internal and regulatory perspective.
Measurement A series of measures are used across the Group to monitor both short and long-term liquidity including: ratios, cash outflow triggers, wholesale funding maturity profile, early warning indicators and stress test survival period triggers.
The Board approved liquidity risk appetite covers a range of metrics considered key to maintaining a strong liquidity and funding position, with regular reporting to GAlcO and the Board.
strict criteria and limits are in place to ensure highly liquid marketable securities are available as part of the portfolio of liquid assets.
details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
note 55 on page 336 sets out an analysis of assets and liabilities by relevant maturity grouping.
in order to reflect more accurately the expected behaviour of the Groups assets and liabilities, measurement and modelling of the behavioural aspects of each is constructed.
divisional teams form a view of customer behaviour based on quantitative and qualitative analysis and these assumptions are subject to governance via divisional asset and liability committees.
This also forms the foundation of the Groups stress testing framework on which the Groups liquidity controls are based.
Mitigation The Group mitigates the risk of a liquidity mismatch in excess of its risk appetite by managing the liquidity profile of the balance sheet through both short-term liquidity management and through the life of the funding plan.
short-term liquidity management is considered from two perspectives: business as usual and liquidity under stressed conditions, both of which relate to funding in the less than one year time horizon.
longer term funding is used to manage the Groups strategic liquidity profile which is determined by the Groups balance sheet structure.
longer term is defined as having an original maturity of more than one year.
The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its significant customer deposit base, and has been supported by stable funding from the wholesale markets with a reduced dependence on short-term wholesale funding.
A substantial proportion of the retail deposit base is made up of customers current and savings accounts which, although repayable on demand, have traditionally in aggregate provided a stable source of funding.
Additionally, the Group accesses the short-term wholesale markets to raise interbank deposits and to issue certificates of deposit and commercial paper to meet short-term obligations.
The Groups appetite for short-term money market funding is based on a qualitative analysis of the markets capacity for the Groups credit.
The Group has developed strong relationships with certain wholesale market segments, and also has access to corporate customers to supplement its retail deposit base.
The Group actively manages its balance sheet and contingent liabilities by ensuring that the internal pricing mechanism for funds within the Group fully incorporates liquidity costs.
This transfer pricing mechanism ensures that liquidity risk is reflected in product pricing and supports the overall Group balance sheet strategy and that the correct behaviours and decisions are rewarded.
The ability to deploy assets quickly, either through the repo market or through outright sale, is also an important source of liquidity for the Groups banking businesses.
The Group holds sizeable balances of high grade marketable debt securities as set out in Table 1.48 which can be sold to provide, or used to secure, additional short term funding should the need arise from either market counterparties or central bank facilities Bank of England, European central Bank, Federal Reserve and Reserve Bank of Australia.
Monitoring liquidity is actively monitored at business unit and Group level.
Routine reporting is in place to senior management and through the Groups committee structure, in particular GAlcO which meets monthly.
in a stress situation the level of monitoring and reporting is increased commensurate with the nature of the stress event.
liquidity policies and procedures are subject to independent internal oversight.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 178 179 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address regulatory liquidity requirements.
The Group monitors a range of market and internal early warning indicators on a daily basis for early signs of liquidity risk in the market or specific to the Group.
These are a mixture of quantitative and qualitative measures including daily variation of customer balances, changes in maturity profiles, cash outflows, funding concentration, primary liquidity portfolio, credit default swap cds spreads and changing funding costs.
in addition, the framework has two other important components: Firstly, the Group carries out stress testing of its liquidity and potential cash flow mismatch position over both short up to two weeks and longer term up to three months horizons against a range of scenarios, including those prescribed by the FsA, on an ongoing basis.
The scenarios and the assumptions are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance they continue to be relevant to the nature of the business.
The Groups liquidity risk appetite is also calibrated against a number of stressed liquidity metrics.
scenarios cover both Group specific and market wide difficulties.
The Group calculates the stressed cash flow mismatch under the prescribed FsA scenarios, which include the effect of credit rating agency downgrades: the idiosyncratic, market wide and combined stresses.
The Group also calculates the stressed cash flow position under a range of the Groups own scenarios reflecting possible future liquidity risks.
These scenarios cover us market disruption, market counterparty failure, uK sovereign rating downgrade and a Eurozone stress.
The key risk driver assumptions applied to the scenarios are: Liquidity risk driver Market wide and Group specific stresses Wholesale funding Outflows calculated based on contractual maturity of wholesale funding with limited roll over.
Marketable asset Haircut widening and repos assumed not to roll on contractual maturity.
Retail and commercial funding substantial outflows on customer deposit base.
intra-day liquidity liquidity required for clearing and payment systems under stressed conditions.
intra group liquidity Requirements from the stressed position of subsidiaries.
Off balance sheet stressed cash outflows from commitments granted.
specifically, commitments granted include the pipeline of new business awaiting completion as well as other standby or revolving credit facilities.
downgrade contractual outflows resulting from short and long-term rating downgrades.
Franchise viability Actions that need to be taken to maintain the Groups core business franchise and reputation.
liquidity stress tests are applied to the Groups funding plan to project possible future stressed positions.
The funding plan is also stressed against a range of macroeconomic scenarios, including those prescribed by the FsA under the Pillar ii anchor scenario.
The Group applies its own macroeconomic stress scenarios, covering a stagnation and a recession.
secondly, the Group has a contingency funding plan embedded within the Group liquidity Policy which has been designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating actions can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
contingency funding plan invocation and escalation processes are based on analysis of five major quantitative and qualitative components, comprising assessment of: early warning indicators, prudential and regulatory liquidity risk limits and triggers, stress testing results, event and systemic indicators and market intelligence.
The planned introduction of the liquidity coverage Ratio lcR minimum requirement will begin at 60 per cent in January 2015 rising in equal annual steps of 10 per cent to reach 100 per cent in January 2019 and the introduction of the net stable Funding Ratio nsFR January 2018 contained within cRd iV are intended to raise the resilience of banks to potential liquidity shocks and provide the basis for a harmonised approach to liquidity risk management.
The guidance issued by the Basel committee is still subject to final ratification by the Eu and the methodology is likely to be refined on the basis of feedback from banks and regulators during the observation period.
The Group has invested considerable resource to ensure that it satisfies the governance, reporting and stress testing requirements of the FsAs individual liquidity Adequacy standards liquidity regime and will satisfy the agreed final nsFR and lcR requirements.
The Group monitors and forecasts the Groups nsFR and lcR.
The actions already announced to right size the balance sheet are expected to ensure compliance with the future minimum standards.
These standards are expected to be 100 per cent for both ratios by their respective effective dates.
during the year, the individual entities within the Group, and the Group, complied with all of the external regulatory liquidity and funding requirements to which they are subject.
Liquidity and funding management in 2012 liquidity and funding continues to remain a key area of focus for the Group and the industry as a whole.
like all major banks, the Group is dependent on confidence in the short and long-term wholesale funding markets.
should the Group, due to exceptional circumstances, be unable to continue to source sustainable funding, its ability to fund its financial obligations could be impacted.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 178 179 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 during the first half of 2012 the Group accelerated term funding initiatives and the run down of certain non-core asset portfolios allowing a further reduction in money market funding and total government and central bank facilities.
This has significantly reduced exposure to wholesale outflows and rating agency downgrades.
The Group repaid its remaining drawings under the Governments credit Guarantee scheme in full, in line with its contractual maturities.
despite difficult funding markets during much of 2012 as investor confidence was impacted by concerns over Eurozone sovereign debt levels, downgrades and possible defaults and the potential downside effects from financial market volatility, the Group continued to fund adequately, maintaining a broadly stable stock of primary liquid assets during the year and meeting its regulatory liquidity requirements at all times.
The key dependencies on successfully funding the Groups balance sheet include the continued functioning of the money and capital markets: successful right-sizing of the Groups balance sheet: limited further deterioration in the uKs and the Groups credit rating: and no significant or sudden withdrawal of customer deposits.
Additionally, the Group has entered into a number of Eu state Aid related obligations to achieve reductions in certain parts of its balance sheet by the end of 2014.
These are assumed within the Groups funding plan.
The Group has achieved the asset reduction commitment, two years ahead of the mandated completion date, and is currently working with the European commission to achieve formal release from the commitment.
until release is obtained from the European commission the Group may have to continue with these asset reductions and or disposals and may receive a lower price upon disposal.
The combination of right-sizing the balance sheet and continued development of the customer deposit base has seen the Groups wholesale funding requirement reduce materially in recent years.
The progress the Group has made to date in diversifying its funding sources has further strengthened its funding base.
Funding concentration is not considered significant by the Group but where such concentrations do exist at the customer or industry level they are not deemed material at Group level.
Group funding sources Total wholesale funding reduced by 81.6 billion to 169.6 billion, with the volume with a residual maturity less than one year falling 62.7 billion to 50.6 billion.
The Group term funding ratio wholesale funding with a remaining life of over one year as a percentage of total wholesale funding improved to 70 per cent 55 per cent at 31 december 2011 due to good progress in new term issuance and a significant reduction in short term money market funding 2012: 31 billion: 2011: 69.1 billion.
Term wholesale issuance for the year totalled 20.1 billion.
Table 1.47: Group funding by type audited 2012 2012 2011 2011 bn % bn % 1 Total wholesale funding 169.6 28.6 251.2 38.2 customer deposits 422.5 71.4 405.9 61.8 2 Total Group funding 592.1 100.0 657.1 100.0 1 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
2 Excluding repos and total equity.
Total wholesale funding by type and expected residual maturity is detailed below.
2 Medium-term notes include funding from the credit Guarantee scheme 2012: nil: 2011: 23.5 billion and from the national loan Guarantee scheme 2012: 1.4 billion: 2011: nil.
3 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 180 181 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Total wholesale funding in 2011 was 251.2 billion of which 113.3 billion had a residual maturity of less than one year.
Table 1.49: Total Wholesale funding by currency audited Other Sterling US Dollar euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn 31 December 2012 54.3 41.6 60.2 13.5 169.6 31 december 2011 61.8 76.0 91.6 21.8 251.2 The table below summarises the Groups wholesale term issuance during 2012.
The Groups 2012 issuance plan was successfully completed in the first half of 2012 through the ability of the Group to access a diverse range of markets and currencies, both in unsecured and secured form.
Table 1.50: Analysis of 2012 term issuance audited Sterling US Dollar euro Other currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn securitisation 1.0 1.6 1.2 0.5 4.3 Medium-term notes 1.4 0.9 1.3 0.5 4.1 covered bonds 2.5 1.0 3.5 1 Private placements 3.8 1.2 1.1 2.1 8.2 Total issuance 8.7 3.7 4.6 3.1 20.1 1 Private placements include structured bonds and term repurchase agreements repos.
The Group has now fully repaid all debt issued under the uK Governments legacy credit Guarantee scheme.
in August the Group announced its support for the Governments Funding for lending scheme Fls and confirmed its intention to participate in the scheme.
The Fls represents a further source of cost effective secured term funding available to the Group.
The initiative supports the Groups customers and provides businesses with cheaper finance to invest and grow.
The Group was the first uK bank to draw on the scheme in september 2012, drawing down 3 billion in total in 2012.
Excluding reverse repos and repos, loans and advances reduced by 36.7 billion: customer deposits increased by 16.6 billion, representing growth of 4 per cent in 2012.
Over the year the Group has seen above market growth in customer deposits 2012: 422.5 billion, 2011: 405.9 billion and a continued reduction in non-core assets 2012: 98.4 billion, 2011: 140.7 billion.
On the same basis, the Group loan to deposit ratio has improved to 121 per cent compared with 135 per cent at 31 december 2011, driven by strong deposit growth and non-core asset reduction.
The core loan to deposit ratio also improved to 101 per cent from 109 per cent at 31 december 2011, close to the Groups long-term target of 100 per cent for the core, which the Group continues to expect to reach in the first quarter of 2013, at the same time as achieving a 120 per cent ratio in the Group.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 180 181 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.51: Group funding position audited 2012 2011 change bn bn % At 31 December Funding requirement 1 loans and advances to customers 512.1 548.8 7 2 loans and advances to banks 9.1 10.3 12 debt securities 5.3 12.5 58 3 Available-for-sale financial assets secondary 5.3 12.0 56 4 cash balances 3.5 4.1 15 Funded assets 535.3 587.7 9 5 Other assets 295.9 286.1 3 831.2 873.8 5 6 On balance sheet primary liquidity assets: Reverse repurchase agreements 5.8 17.3 66 4 Balances at central banks primary 76.8 56.6 36 Available-for-sale financial assets primary 26.1 25.4 3 Held to maturity 8.1 Trading and fair value through profit or loss 9.4 3.5 Repurchase agreements 5.9 7.2 18 93.4 96.7 3 Total Group assets 924.6 970.5 5 5 less: other liabilities 266.0 251.6 6 Funding requirement 658.6 718.9 8 Funded by 7 customer deposits 422.5 405.9 4 Wholesale funding 169.6 251.2 32 592.1 657.1 10 Repurchase agreements 21.8 15.2 43 Total equity 44.7 46.6 4 Total funding 658.6 718.9 8 1 Excludes 5.1 billion 2011: 16.8 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
2 Excludes 19.6 billion 2011: 21.8 billion of loans and advances to banks within the insurance business and 0.7 billion 2011: 0.5 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
3 secondary liquidity assets comprise a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral including retained issuance.
4 cash balances and balances at central banks primary are combined in the Groups balance sheet.
5 Other assets and other liabilities primarily include balances in the Groups insurance business and the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities.
6 Primary liquidity assets are FsA eligible liquid assets including uK Gilts, us Treasuries, Euro AAA government debt and unencumbered cash balances held at central banks.
7 Excluding repurchase agreements of 4.4 billion 2011: 8.0 billion.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 182 183 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.52: Reconciliation of Group funding figure to the balance sheet audited included in Fair value funding and other analysis accounting Balance table 1.48 Repos methods Sheet bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2012 deposits from banks 15.1 23.3 38.4 debt securities in issue 120.4 3.0 117.4 subordinated liabilities 34.1 34.1 Total wholesale funding 169.6 23.3 customer deposits 422.5 4.4 426.9 Total 592.1 27.7 At 31 december 2011 deposits from banks 25.4 14.4 39.8 debt securities in issue 189.9 4.8 185.1 subordinated liabilities 35.9 0.8 35.1 Total wholesale funding 251.2 14.4 customer deposits 405.9 8.0 413.9 Total 657.1 22.4 Liquidity Portfolio At 31 december 2012, the Group had 87.6 billion 2011: 94.8 billion of highly liquid unencumbered assets in its primary liquidity portfolio which are available to meet cash and collateral outflows, as illustrated in the table below.
in addition the Group had 117.1 billion 2011: 107.4 billion of secondary liquidity covering a range of ratings but all investment grade and central bank eligible.
This liquidity is managed as a single pool in the centre under the control of the function charged with managing the liquidity of the Group.
it is available for deployment at immediate notice, subject to complying with regulatory requirements, and is a key component of the Groups liquidity management process.
2 includes other central bank eligible assets.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 182 183 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.54: Liquidity portfolio: currency unaudited Sterling US Dollar euro Other currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2012 Primary liquidity 42.2 7.2 36.5 1.7 87.6 secondary liquidity 109.2 1.6 4.7 1.6 117.1 Total 15 1.
4 8.8 4 1.2 3.3 204.7 At 31 december 2011 Primary liquidity 65.6 13.8 14.8 0.6 94.8 secondary liquidity 93.9 5.0 6.9 1.6 107.4 Total 159.5 18.8 21.7 2.2 202.2 Following the introduction of the FsAs individual liquidity guidance under ilAs, the Group now manages its liquidity position as a coverage ratio proportion of stressed outflows covered by primary liquid assets rather than by reference to a quantum of liquid assets: the liquidity position reflects a buffer over the regulatory minimum.
Primary liquid assets of 87.6 billion represent approximately 260 per cent 133 per cent at 31 december 2011 of the Groups money market funding positions and are approximately 173 per cent 84 per cent at 31 december 2011 of all wholesale funding with a maturity of less than one year, and thus provides substantial buffer in the event of continued market dislocation.
in addition to primary liquidity holdings the Group has significant secondary liquidity holdings providing access to open market operations at a number of central banks which the Group routinely makes use of as part of its normal liquidity management practices.
Future use of such facilities will be based on prudent liquidity management and economic considerations, having regard for external market conditions.
during 2012, the GAlcO mandated Group corporate Treasury to establish a new core liquidity and collateral asset portfolio.
The portfolio is subject to defined risk appetite with tight controls over eligible assets, which must also be diversified across geography, currency, markets and tenor.
Stress testing results internal stress testing results at 31 december 2012 show that the Group has liquidity resources representing 128 per cent of modelled outflows from all wholesale funding sources, retail and corporate deposits, intra-day requirements and rating dependent contracts under the Groups most severe liquidity stress scenario the three month combined market wide and Group specific scenario.
The Groups stress testing assumes that further credit rating downgrades may reduce investor appetite for some of the Groups liability classes and therefore funding capacity.
in June 2012 the Group experienced a one notch downgrade in its long-term rating from Moodys, following the agencys review of 114 European banks.
The impact that the Group experienced following the downgrade was not material and was consistent with the modelled outcomes based on the stress testing framework.
A hypothetical idiosyncratic two notch downgrade of the Groups current long-term debt rating and accompanying short-term downgrade, implemented instantaneously by all major rating agencies could result in an outflow of 11.5 billion of cash over a period of up to one year, 3.5 billion of collateral posting related to customer financial contracts and 18.0 billion of collateral posting associated with secured funding.
The Groups internal liquidity risk appetite includes such a stress scenario.
The stress scenario modelling demonstrates the Group has available liquidity resources to manage such an event.
encumbered assets during 2012 the Group was a consistent issuer in a number of secured funding markets, in particular residential mortgage-backed securities and covered bonds.
The table below summarises the assets encumbered through the Groups external issuance transactions.
Table 1.55: Secured external issuance transactions audited notes Assets 3 issued encumbered bn bn At 31 December 2012 1 securitisations 28.1 40.0 2 covered bonds 40.7 56.7 Total 68.8 96.7 At 31 december 2011 1 securitisations 37.4 50.0 2 covered bonds 38.2 52.0 Total 75.6 102.0 1 in addition the Group retained internally 58.7 billion 2011: 86.6 billion of notes secured with 78.2 billion 2011: 114.6 billion of assets.
For details on the Groups securitisation programme refer to note 21 on page 252.
2 in addition the Group retained internally 26.3 billion 2011: 31.9 billion of notes secured with 37.6 billion 2011: 42.4 billion of assets.
For details on the Groups covered bond programme refer to note 21 on page 252.
3 Pro-rated by programme asset type.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 184 185 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT The Board monitors and manages total balance sheet encumbrance via a risk appetite metric.
The Groups level of encumbrance arising from external issuance of securitisation and covered bonds has remained broadly constant, reflecting the maturity and stability of the Groups utilisation of this form of term funding, and the established cycle of redemptions and new issuance.
Total notes issued externally from secured programmes asset-backed securities ABs and covered bonds have fallen from 75.6 billion at 31 december 2011 to 68.8 billion, reflecting a reduction in the number of outstanding programmes as well as lower issued balances.
A total of 85.1 billion 2011: 118.5 billion of notes issued under securitisation and covered bond programmes have also been retained internally, most of which are held to provide a pool of collateral eligible for use with central bank liquidity facilities.
This reduction in retained notes partially reflects the Groups increased use of whole loans as eligible collateral at central banks.
The Group uses secured transactions to manage short-term cash and collateral needs.
At 31 december 2012, the fair value of collateral pledged as security in repo transactions was 48.1 billion 2011: 39.7 billion.
internally held notes encumbered through repo activity or assets pledged are included in these disclosure amounts.
note 55 on page 329 sets out further information on assets pledged as security.
Within asset-backed commercial paper ABcP conduits, assets pledged as security for ABcP investors totalled 6.4 billion 2011: 8.8 billion.
note 22 on page 253 sets out the assets held within the ABcP conduits.
Group borrowing costs The Groups borrowing costs and issuance in the capital markets are dependent on a number of factors, and increased cost or reduction of capacity could materially adversely affect the Groups results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
in particular, reduction in the credit rating of the Group or deterioration in the capital markets perception of the Groups financial resilience could significantly increase its borrowing costs and limit its issuance capacity in the capital markets.
As an indicator over the last 12 months the spread between an index of A rated long term senior unsecured bank debt and an index of similar BBB rated bank debt, both of which are publicly available, averaged 134 basis points.
The applicability to and implications for the Groups funding cost would depend on the type of issuance, and prevailing market conditions.
The impact on the Groups funding cost is subject to a number of assumptions and uncertainties and is therefore impossible to quantify precisely.
The rating changes that the Group has experienced since the fourth quarter of 2011 did not significantly change its borrowing costs, reduce its issuance capacity or require significant collateral posting.
in november 2012 standard & Poors revised its outlook on the Groups long-term rating to negative from stable.
However, even if a two notch long-term downgrade and a simultaneous short-term downgrade occurred, the Group would remain investment grade.
Hybrid capital securities coupon payments The discretionary payments on Tier 1 hybrid capital securities which are expected to be paid in 2013, subject to their terms and conditions, are estimated to amount to approximately 350 million.
in the context of on-going macro prudential policy discussions, the Board of lloyds Banking Group has decided to issue new lloyds Banking Group ordinary shares to raise this amount.
The Group has entered into an agreement with a third-party financial institution in connection with the issue of these new ordinary shares.
such ordinary shares are expected to be issued, subject to market conditions, by the end of April 2013 at a price determined by reference to the volume weighted average price of our ordinary shares in a period prior to their date of issue.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 184 185 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 insurance risk Definition insurance risk is defined as the risk of adverse developments in the timing, frequency and severity of claims for insured underwritten events and in customer behaviour, leading to reductions in earnings and or value.
Risk appetite Protecting today, insurance risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and composition of insurance securing tomorrow.
risk that exists currently in the Group and the Groups risk preferences.
it takes account of the need for each entity in the Group to maintain solvency in excess of the minimum level required by the entitys jurisdictional legal or regulatory requirements.
The Groups appetite for insurance solvency and earnings is reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
exposures The major sources of insurance risk within the Group are the insurance business and the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
The nature of insurance business involves the accepting of insurance risks which relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency, expenses, property and unemployment.
The prime insurance risk of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is related to longevity.
Measurement insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including stress and scenario testing, and where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
current and potential future insurance risk exposures are assessed and aggregated using risk measures based on 1-in-200 year stresses Group defined benefit pension schemes utilise 1-in-20 year stresses and other supporting measures where appropriate, including those set out in notes 37 and 38 to the financial statements.
Mitigation A key element of the control framework is the consideration of insurance risk by an appropriate combination of high level committees and Boards.
For the insurance business the ultimate control body is the Board of scottish Widows Group limited with significant risks also reviewed by the Group Executive and Group Risk committees and or Board.
All Group defined benefit pension schemes issues are covered by the Group Asset and liability committee and the Group Risk committee.
insurance risk is mitigated through pooling and through diversification across large numbers of individuals, geographical areas, and different types of risk exposure.
A number of processes are used to control insurance risk including: underwriting the process to ensure that new insurance proposals are properly assessed : Pricing-to-risk new insurance proposals are priced to cover the underlying risks inherent within the products : claims management: Product design and management: Policy wording: Reinsurance and cost controls and efficiencies.
in addition, exposure limits by risk type are assessed through the business planning process and used as a control mechanism to ensure risks are taken within risk appetite.
At all times, close attention is paid to the adequacy of reserves, solvency management and regulatory requirements.
The most significant insurance risks within the insurance business are longevity risk, persistency risk and expenses.
The merits of longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are regularly reviewed.
it is not possible to hedge persistency risk.
General insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements which are broadly spread over different reinsurers.
detailed modelling, including that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of reinsurance arrangements.
Appropriate reinsurance arrangements also apply within the life and pensions businesses with significant mortality risk and morbidity risk being transferred to the Groups chosen reinsurers.
in respect of insurance risks in the defined benefit pension schemes, the Group ensures that effective communication mechanisms are in place for consultation with the trustees to assist with the management of risk in line with the Groups risk appetite.
Monitoring Ongoing monitoring is in place to track the progression of insurance risks.
This involves monitoring relevant experiences against expectations for example claims experience, persistency experience, expenses and non-disclosure at the point of sale as well as tracking the progression of insurance risk capital against limits.
As part of this, the effectiveness of controls put in place to manage insurance risk are evaluated and any significant divergences from experience or movements in risk exposures are investigated and remedial action taken.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 186 187 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Regulatory risk Definition Regulatory risk is defined as the risk that the Group is exposed to fines, censure, or legal or enforcement action due to failing to comply with applicable laws, regulations, codes of conduct or legal obligations.
Maintaining an effective relationship Risk appetite with our regulators The Group has zero risk appetite for material regulatory breaches.
This appetite is reviewed remains a key focus and approved annually by the Board.
To achieve this, the Group has policies, processes and standards which provide the framework for businesses and colleagues to operate in for the Group.
accordance with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes which apply to the Group and its activities.
exposures Regulatory exposure is driven by the significant volume of current legislation and regulation within the uK and overseas with which the Group has to comply, along with new or proposed legislation and regulation which needs to be interpreted, implemented and embedded into day-to-day operational and business practices across the Group.
This is particularly the case currently: the industry is witnessing increased levels of government and regulatory intervention in the banking sector.
There are a number of regulatory issues and challenges across the broader regulatory environment such as changes in the investment advice regulations when the Retail distribution Review RdR came into force on 1 January 2013: ongoing focus on changes in the anti-bribery and sanctions controls: and being dual regulated by two new regulators the Prudential Regulation Authority and Financial conduct Authority.
This is expected to happen from April 2013.
At a European and us level, significant regulatory initiatives and new directives or changes to existing directives will impact the Group in the next 12 to 24 months.
This includes the enactment of the dodd-Frank Act, a revised Markets in Financial instruments directive and development of the single supervisory Mechanism.
Measurement Regulatory risks are measured against a set of risk appetite metrics, with appropriate limits and triggers, which have been approved by the Board and which are regularly reviewed and monitored at the Group conduct and compliance committee.
Metrics include assessments of control and material regulatory rule breaches.
Mitigation Mitigation is undertaken across the Group and comprises the following key components: Risks are assessed by the business and controls put in place to mitigate them.
Oversight and assurance of the regulatory risks within the business.
Theme reviews to assess compliance with rules, regulations and policies.
The Group takes very seriously its responsibilities for complying with legal and regulatory sanctions requirements in all the jurisdictions in which it operates.
in order to assist adherence to relevant economic sanctions legislation, the Group has enhanced its internal compliance processes including those associated with customer and payment screening.
The Group has continued the delivery of a programme of staff training regarding policies and procedures for detecting and preventing economic sanctions non-compliance.
Monitoring Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk division where it is aggregated at Group level and a report prepared.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 186 187 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Capital risk Definition capital risk is defined as the risk that the Group has a sub-optimal amount or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across the Group.
We have made Risk Appetite significant progress and capital risk appetite is set by the Board, reflecting the Groups strategic plans, regulatory continue to deliver on our capital constraints and market expectations, and includes a number of minimum capital ratios strategy of strengthening the and target buffers.
The Board and the Group chief Executive, assisted by the Group Asset and balance sheet to improve the liability committee, regularly review performance against the risk appetite.
A key metric is the resilience of the Group.
Groups core tier 1 capital ratio which the Group currently aims to maintain prudently in excess of 10 per cent.
exposure A capital exposure arises where the Group has insufficient capital resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and to meet external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
The Groups capital management approach is focused on maintaining sufficient capital resources to prevent such exposures while optimising value for shareholders.
Measurement The Group measures the amount of capital it holds using the FsAs definitions.
until the Basel iii reforms for an enhanced global capital accord are introduced in the Eu through the implementation of the new capital Requirements directive and Regulation cRd iV, the regulatory minimum and buffer amounts of capital continue to be based upon the Basel ii framework.
The regulatory minimum amounts of capital, under Pillar i of the Basel framework, are determined as percentages of the aggregate risk-weighted assets calculated for credit risk, operational risk and market risk Trading Book, which are predominately calculated using internal models that are prudently calibrated based on internal loss experience.
The models are subject to a number of internal controls and external scrutiny from the FsA.
The minimum requirement for total capital is supplemented, under Pillar ii of the framework, through the issuance of bank specific individual capital Guidance icG which adjusts the Pillar i minimum for those risks not covered or not fully covered under Pillar i.
A key input into the FsAs icG setting process is a banks own assessment of the amount of capital it needs, a process known as the internal capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
The Group has been set an icG by the FsA and maintains capital at a level which exceeds this requirement.
As part of the capital planning process, capital positions are subjected to an extensive stress analysis to determine the adequacy of the Groups capital resources against the minimum requirements, including icG, over the forecast period.
The outputs from some of these stress analyses are used by the FsA to set a capital Planning Buffer cPB for the Group.
This comprises minimum levels of capital buffers over and above the minimum regulatory requirements for core tier 1 and total capital that should be maintained in non-stressed conditions as mitigation against potential future periods of stress.
The FsA requires icG and cPB to remain confidential matters between a bank and the FsA.
Mitigation The Group has developed procedures to ensure that it complies with current requirements, is positioned to meet anticipated future requirements and that policies and risk appetite are aligned to them.
The Group is able to accumulate additional capital through profit retention, by raising equity via, for example, a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising tier 1 and tier 2 capital by issuing subordinated liabilities, taking account of the potential capital eligibility requirements under cRd iV.
The cost and availability of additional capital is dependent upon market conditions and perceptions at the time.
The Group has in issue, as part of tier 2 capital resources, Enhanced capital notes which will convert to core tier 1 capital in the event that the Groups published core tier 1 ratio as defined by the FsA in May 2009 falls below 5 per cent.
Additional measures to manage the Groups capital position include seeking to strike an appropriate balance of capital held within its insurance and banking subsidiaries and through improving the quality of its capital through liability management exercises.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 188 189 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Monitoring capital is actively managed and regulatory ratios are a key factor in the Groups budgeting and planning processes.
capital policies and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
Regular reporting of actual and projected ratios, including those that could occur under cRd iV and in stressed scenarios, is submitted to the senior Asset and liability committee a sub-committee of the Group Asset and liability committee, the Group Asset and liability committee, the Group Risk committee and the Board.
The regulatory framework within which the Group operates continues to be enhanced as part of the global banking reforms.
The Group monitors these developments very closely, participates actively in the regulatory consultation processes and analyses the potential financial impacts, ensuring that the Group continues to have a strong loss absorption capacity exceeding regulatory requirements.
Over the course of 2012 some of the key developments were: in October, the uK Government published the draft Financial services Banking Reform Bill which will give effect to the recommendations of the independent commission on Banking covering banking structural reforms ring-fencing of retail banking activities, bail-in of senior debt and depositor preference.
in december, the Parliamentary commission on Banking standards published its first report commenting upon the draft Bill.
in november the Financial stability Board published an updated list of Global systemically important Banks G-siBs which no longer included the Group.
The Group remains, however, a domestic systemically important Bank d-siB within the uK.
The implementation of cRd iV has been delayed beyond the original proposed date of 1 January 2013 to an as yet unknown implementation date while certain parts of the draft directive and regulation continue to be refined.
Generally, the reforms are developed and phased in over long periods which allows time for the Group to further strengthen its capital position as necessary through business performance and mitigating actions.
Capital management in 2012 The Group actively manages its capital position, closely monitoring the changing market and regulatory environments.
The Group further strengthened its capital ratios in 2012.
This was principally driven by management profit and a reduction in risk-weighted assets, reflecting asset reductions and the substantial decrease in risk, partly offset by statutory items and tax costs.
The core business remains strongly capital generative and there is continued progress in simultaneously reducing risk and creating capital through the disposal of non-core assets.
capital position at 31 december 2012 The Groups capital position, at 31 december 2012 and applying the existing regulatory framework, is set out in the following section.
Additionally, estimated pro forma information about the Groups capital position on a cRd iV basis is set out on page 192.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 188 189 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.56: Capital resources audited 2012 2011 m m Core tier 1 shareholders equity per balance sheet 43,999 45,920 non-controlling interests per balance sheet 685 674 Regulatory adjustments: Regulatory adjustments to non-controlling interests 628 577 Adjustment for own credit 217 136 defined benefit pension adjustment 1,438 1,004 unrealised reserve on available-for-sale debt securities 343 940 unrealised reserve on available-for-sale equity investments 56 386 cash flow hedging reserve 350 325 Other items 33 36 42,1 1 9 43,190 Less: deductions from core tier 1 Goodwill 2,016 2,016 intangible assets 2,091 2,310 50% excess of expected losses over impairment provisions unaudited 636 720 50% of securitisation positions 183 153 Core tier 1 capital 37, 1 93 37,991 1 non-controlling preference shares 1,568 1,613 1 Preferred securities 4,039 4,487 Less: deductions from tier 1 50% of material holdings 46 94 Total tier 1 capital 42,754 43,997 Tier 2 undated subordinated debt 1, 828 1,859 dated subordinated debt 19,886 21,229 unrealised gains on available-for-sale equity investments 56 386 Eligible provisions 977 1,259 Less: deductions from tier 2 50% excess of expected losses over impairment provisions unaudited 636 720 50% of securitisation positions 183 153 50% of material holdings 46 94 Total tier 2 capital 21,882 23,766 Supervisory deductions unconsolidated investments life 10,104 10,107 unconsolidated investments general insurance and other 929 2,660 Total supervisory deductions 11,033 12,767 Total capital resources 53,603 54,996 1 covered by grandfathering provisions issued by FsA.
Table 1.57: Risk Weighted Assets and Capital Ratios unaudited 2012 2011 m m Risk-weighted assets 310,299 352,341 Ratios core tier 1 capital ratio 12.0% 10.8% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.8% 12.5% Total capital ratio 17.3% 15.6% Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 190 191 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT core tier 1 capital core tier 1 capital has reduced by 798 million during 2012 primarily due to the attributable loss for the period and the deduction of the increase to the pension scheme asset balances, which have been partially offset by a decrease in the deductions of intangibles, the adjustment for own credit, the excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and share issuance.
The movements in core tier 1, tier 1, tier 2 and total capital in the period are shown below: Table 1.58: Movements in capital unaudited Core tier 1 Tier 1 Tier 2 Total m m m m At 31 december 2011 37,991 6,006 23,766 54,996 loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 1,427 1,427 Regulatory post-retirement benefit adjustments 434 434 Adjustment for own credit 353 353 Goodwill and intangible assets deductions 219 219 Excess of expected losses over impairment 84 84 168 Material holdings deduction 48 48 96 Eligible provisions 282 282 subordinated debt movements: Foreign exchange 194 1,186 1,380 new issuances 128 128 Repurchases, redemptions and other 299 316 615 supervisory deductions from total capital 1,734 Other movements 407 360 47 At 31 December 2012 37,193 5,561 21,882 53,603 Tier 1 capital Tier 1 capital has decreased in the period by 445 million mainly as a result of a debt exchange undertaken in February 2012 and foreign exchange movements.
Tier 2 capital Tier 2 capital has decreased in the period by 1,884 million largely arising from a decrease in dated subordinated debt, principally due to amortisation, foreign exchange movements and fair value movements in Enhanced capital notes.
unrealised gains on available-for-sale equity investments have also decreased in the year.
supervisory deductions supervisory deductions principally consist of investments in subsidiary undertakings that are not within the banking group for regulatory purposes.
These investments are primarily the scottish Widows and clerical Medical life and pensions businesses together with the Groups general insurance business and the investment in st. Jamess Place.
At 31 december 2011 deductions for other unconsolidated investments also included private equity investments in non-financial entities.
At 31 december 2012, revised regulatory rules have been applied to these investments which are now risk-weighted rather than being deducted from total capital.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 190 191 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Table 1.59: Risk-weighted assets unaudited 2012 2011 m m Divisional analysis of risk-weighted assets Retail 95,470 103,237 commercial Banking 165,209 192,885 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 36,1 6 7 43,593 Group Operations and central items 13,453 12,626 310,299 352,341 Risk type analysis of risk-weighted assets Foundation iRB 80,612 90,450 Retail iRB 91,445 98,823 Other iRB 12,396 9,433 iRB Approach 184,453 198,706 standardised Approach 73,665 103,525 credit risk 258,118 302,231 Operational risk 27,939 30,589 Market and counterparty risk 24,242 19,521 Total risk-weighted assets 310,299 352,341 Risk-weighted assets reduced by 42,042 million to 310,299 million, a decrease of 12 per cent.
This reflects a combination of balance sheet reductions of non-core assets, lower core lending balances and strong management of risk.
Retail risk-weighted assets reduced by 7,767 million mainly due to lower lending volumes.
The reduction of commercial Banking risk-weighted assets of 27,676 million primarily reflects further balance sheet reductions of non-core assets.
Risk-weighted assets within Wealth, Asset Finance and international have reduced by 7,426 million as a result of the run down of non-core asset portfolios and foreign exchange movements.
Operational risk-weighted assets are determined under the standardised approach, which uses income as the basis of calculation.
The decrease in the risk-weighted assets is a result of a reduction in three year rolling-average income.
during 2012 equity portfolios and investments previously measured on the standardised approach were transferred to the internal ratings based approach Other iRB.
The Group anticipates moving further portfolios that are currently measured on the standardised approach over to an iRB methodology during 2013.
Pro forma CRD iv capital and leverage information cRd iV capital and leverage estimates will be incorporated in the Groups Pillar iii report in detailed templates.
The data in the following tables represent a summary of the information that will be published as part of the Groups Pillar iii report.
These estimates reflect the Groups current interpretation of the draft rules.
The actual impact of cRd iV on capital ratios may be materially different as the requirements and related technical standards have not yet been finalised.
The actual impact will also be dependent on required regulatory approvals and the extent to which further management action is taken prior to implementation.
capital position on cRd iV basis The Groups capital position at 31 december 2012 calculated on current regulatory rules and also estimated on a pro forma basis, applying the cRd iV rules and assuming existing FsA waivers still apply, is shown in the table below.
The pro forma cRd iV capital resources shown reflect estimates of the impact of the rules laid out in the draft of cRd iV published by the European commission in July 2011 July 2011 draft on both a transitional basis as if 2012 had been the first year of transition and on a fully loaded basis referred to as cRd iV end-point definition in FsA documentation.
The transitional position shown is consistent with FsAs statement cRd iV transitional provisions on capital resources published on 26 October 2012 on the FsA website.
The estimates of pro forma cRd iV risk-weighted assets shown are also based upon July 2011 draft rules updated to reflect the Groups current view of the most likely application of the final rules.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 192 193 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.60: Capital position on CRD iv basis unaudited Pro forma CRD iv rules Transitional Fully loaded Current Rules estimate estimate m m m 31 December 2012 core common equity tier 1 cET1 shareholders equity per balance sheet 43,999 43,999 43,999 Regulatory adjustments: non-controlling interests 57 57 unrealised reserves on available for sale assets 399 399 Other adjustments 1,538 1,675 1,675 42,119 41,982 42,324 less: deductions from core common equity tier 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 4,107 4,107 Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 636 1,272 securitisation deductions 183 366 366 significant investments 5,066 deferred tax assets 511 5,655 Excess AT1 deductions reallocated to cET1 3,720 Core common equity tier 1 Capital 37,193 37,385 25,858 Additional tier 1 AT1 Additional tier 1 instruments 5,607 5,009 less: deductions from tier 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 4,107 Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 636 significant investments 46 3,986 Reallocated excess AT1 deductions to cET1 3,720 Total tier 1 capital 42,754 37,385 25,858 Tier 2 Tier 2 instruments 21,714 20,990 13,571 unrealised gain on available for sale equity investments 56 56 Eligible provisions 977 less: deductions from tier 2 Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions 636 636 securitisation deductions 183 significant investments 46 3,986 2,907 subsidiary surplus tier 2 371 less: deductions from total capital significant investments 11,033 Total capital resources 53,603 53,809 36,151 Risk-weighted assets 310,299 322,468 321,097 core common equity tier 1 capital ratio 12.0% 11.
6% 8.1% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.8% 11.6% 8.1% Total capital ratio 17.3% 16.7% 11.3% The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 192 193 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 At 31 december 2012, on a pro forma cRd iV transitional basis the Groups estimated common equity tier 1 cET1-cRd iV equivalent of core tier 1 ratio would have been 11.6 per cent, and on a pro forma cRd iV fully loaded basis it would have been 8.1 per cent.
The key impacts on capital resources of the transitional rules are that: The deductions for goodwill and other intangible assets and excess of expected losses over impairment provisions that are made from core tier 1 under the current rules are made from additional tier 1: A part of the deduction that would otherwise be made for significant investments is risk-weighted instead.
The residual deduction is made 50 per cent from tier 1 and 50 per cent from tier 2 rather than from total capital: The deduction made for securitisations is made fully from cET1 rather than 50 per cent from core tier 1 and 50 per cent from tier 2 capital as under the current rules: A proportion of the deferred tax asset is deducted from cET1: A proportion of the additional tier 1 and tier 2 instruments become ineligible under the grandfathering rules: Eligible provisions are nil as collectively assessed impairment provisions for the standardised portfolios can no longer be included under tier 2 capital instead a corresponding reduction is made to standardised risk-weighted assets : and The deductions to be made from additional tier 1 exceed the amount of available additional tier 1 capital instruments.
The excess is deducted from cET1.
The impact of the fully loaded rules on capital resources is that: non-controlling interests are no longer eligible for inclusion: The amount of unrealised reserves on available for sale assets are included in full rather than being deducted: Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and the deduction made for securitisations are deducted fully from cET1 instead of 50 per cent from core tier 1 and 50 per cent from tier 2 under the current rules: The amount of significant investments that is not risk-weighted is fully deducted following a corresponding deduction approach: deferred tax assets are deducted from cET1: Existing additional tier 1 and a proportion of tier 2 instruments become ineligible and are excluded.
The Group would expect to accumulate additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital as required through the issuance of subordinated liabilities, taking account of the potential capital eligibility requirements under cRd iV.
The cost and availability of additional capital is dependent upon market conditions and perceptions at the time: Eligible provisions are nil as collectively assessed impairment provisions for the standardised portfolios can no longer be included under tier 2 capital instead a corresponding reduction is made to standardised risk-weighted assets : and subsidiary surplus within tier 2 relates to the restriction of capital instruments of a subsidiary that can be recognised as capital at the consolidated group level.
The cRd iV impact on risk-weighted assets includes estimates for credit valuation adjustment cVA volatility and risk-weighting of the available elements of the deferred tax asset and the investment in the Groups insurance businesses.
it is assumed that Eu corporates are exempt from the cVA volatility charge and that the national discretion over 180 day default remains for uK retail mortgages.
The Groups capital position may be different should alternative text be agreed.
There are potential changes that could result in increases to risk-weighted assets including, for example, the application of a 90 day definition of default for retail assets and the Eu corporate exemption from the cVA not applying.
conversely, if the FsA were to apply the more favourable treatment allowed in relation to insurance holdings rather than the less favourable treatment that has been assumed will apply, this would increase the estimated fully loaded cET1 ratio by a further 1.0 per cent.
The pro forma fully loaded cRd iV cET1 ratio of 8.1 per cent comfortably exceeds the 4.5 per cent minimum and the additional 2.5 per cent conservation buffer that are required under the draft rules from 2019. nevertheless, the Group will continue to monitor closely the emergence of the final rules and their impact upon its ratios.
Moreover, through transition to the new rules, the Group is aiming to build the ratio to an amount prudently in excess of 10 per cent by continuing to run down its non-core portfolios and by profit generation.
Leverage ratio on CRD iv basis The Basel iii reforms include the introduction of a capital leverage measure defined as the ratio of tier 1 capital to total exposure.
This is intended to reinforce the risk based capital requirements with a simple, non-risk based backstop measure.
The Basel committee have proposed that final adjustments to the definition and calibration of the leverage ratio be carried out in 2017, with a view to migrating to a Pillar i treatment in 2018. in the interim, the FsA has asked the Group to publish the estimated leverage ratio on a fully loaded cRd iV basis, with and without ineligible tier 1 instruments, to indicate the approximate leverage ratio that the Group would have now were the cRd iV rules fully implemented.
The Groups estimates of its leverage ratio at 31 december 2012 are shown in the table below on three different bases: The cRd iV Transitional basis uses the tier 1 capital calculated by applying the rules laid out in the July 2011 draft publication of cRd iV on a transitional basis as if 2012 had been the first year of transition.
The tier 1 capital amount corresponds to that shown in the second column of table 1.61.
The cRd iV fully loaded basis uses the tier 1 capital calculated by applying the rules laid out in the July 2011 draft publication of cRd iV, without applying any transitional provisions and corresponds to the amount shown in the third column in table 1.61.
The cRd iV fully loaded with ineligible tier 1 instruments grandfathered basis uses the tier 1 capital calculated by applying the rules laid out in the July 2011 draft publication of cRd iV, without transition, with the exception that tier 1 instruments which will be ineligible once the transitional phase has elapsed are counted in full.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 194 195 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.61: Leverage ratio on CRD iv basis unaudited Pro forma CRD iv rules CRD iv Fully loaded estimate with CRD iv CRD iv ineligible T1 Transitional Fully loaded instruments estimate estimate grandfathered m m m At 31 December 2012 Total tier 1 capital for leverage ratio common equity tier 1 37,385 25,858 25,858 Tier 1 subordinated debt allowable for leverage 5,009 5,607 Tier 1 deductions 5,009 37,385 25,858 31,465 exposures for leverage ratio Total statutory balance sheet assets 924,552 924,552 924,552 Remove accounting value of derivatives and securities finance transactions 76,731 76,731 76,731 Adjustment for insurance assets 99,464 109,786 109,786 derivatives 20,174 20,174 20,174 securities finance transactions 7,936 7,936 7,936 Off-balance sheet including unconditionally cancellable 76,899 76,899 76,899 Other regulatory adjustments 6,781 12,619 12,619 Total exposures 846,585 830,425 830,425 leverage ratio 4.4% 3.1% 3.8% derivatives and securities financing transactions have been calculated by applying the accounting measure of exposure plus, for derivatives, an add-on for potential future exposure and the regulatory netting rules based on the Basel ii Framework.
To ensure that the capital and exposure components of the ratio are measured consistently, the assets of the insurance entities included in the accounting consolidation have been excluded from the exposure measure in proportion to the capital that is excluded in tier 1.
The Groups estimated fully loaded leverage ratio with ineligible tier 1 instruments grandfathered is 3.8 per cent and the Groups estimated fully loaded leverage ratio, excluding the tier 1 instruments is 3.1 per cent.
These would both be in excess of the Basel committees minimum ratio of 3 per cent which is proposed should become a Pillar i requirement by 1 January 2018.
The Group will continue to monitor closely the leverage ratio against the emerging rules and minimum calibration and will aim to increase the ratio further by continuing to run down its non-core portfolios and by profit generation.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 194 195 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Life insurance businesses The business transacted by the life insurance companies within the Group comprises unit-linked business, non-profit business and with-profits business.
several companies transact either unit-linked and or non-profit business, but scottish Widows plc scottish Widows and clerical Medical investment Group limited clerical Medical hold the only large With-Profit Funds managed by the Group.
Basis of determining regulatory capital of the life insurance businesses Available capital resources Available capital resources represent the excess of assets over liabilities calculated in accordance with detailed regulatory rules issued by the FsA.
Statutory basis: Assets are generally valued on a basis consistent with that used for accounting purposes with the exception that, in certain cases, the value attributed to assets is limited and which follows a market value approach where possible.
if the market is not active, the Group establishes a fair value by using valuation techniques.
liabilities are calculated using a projection of future cash flows after making prudent assumptions about matters such as investment return, expenses and mortality.
discount rates used to value the liabilities are set with reference to the risk adjusted yields on the underlying assets in accordance with the FsA rules.
Other assumptions are based on recent actual experience, supplemented by industry information where appropriate.
The assessment of liabilities does not include future bonuses for withprofits policies that are at the discretion of management, but does include a value for policyholder options likely to be exercised.
Regulatory capital requirements Each life insurance company must retain sufficient capital to meet the regulatory capital requirements mandated by the FsA: the basis of calculating the regulatory capital requirement is given below.
Except for scottish Widows and clerical Medical, the regulatory capital requirement is a combination of amounts held in respect of actuarial reserves, sums at risk and maintenance expenses the long-Term insurance capital Requirement and amounts required to cover various stress tests the Resilience capital Requirement.
The regulatory capital requirement is deducted from the available capital resources to give statutory excess capital.
For scottish Widows and clerical Medical, no Resilience capital Requirement is required.
However, a further test is required in respect of the With-Profit Funds.
This involves comparing the statutory basis of assessment with a realistic basis of assessment as described below.
Realistic basis: The FsA requires each life insurance company which contains a With-Profit Fund in excess of 500 million to also carry out a realistic valuation of that fund.
The Group has two such funds: one within scottish Widows and one within clerical Medical.
The word realistic in this context reflects the fact that assumptions are best-estimate as opposed to prudent.
This realistic valuation is an assessment of the financial position of a With-Profit Fund calculated under a methodology prescribed by the FsA.
The valuation of with-profits assets in a With-Profit Fund on a realistic basis differs from the valuation on a statutory basis as, in respect of non-profit business written therein, it includes the present value of the anticipated future release of the prudent margins for adverse deviation.
in addition, the realistic valuation uses the market value of assets without the limit affecting the statutory basis noted above.
The realistic valuation of liabilities includes an allowance for future bonuses.
Options and guarantees are valued using a stochastic simulation model which values these liabilities on a basis consistent with tradable market option contracts a market-consistent basis.
The model takes account of policyholder behaviour on a best-estimate basis and includes an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities.
Further details regarding the stochastic simulation model are given in the section entitled Options and guarantees on page 199.
The realistic excess capital is calculated as the difference between realistic assets and realistic liabilities of the With-Profit Fund with a further deduction to cover various stress tests the Risk capital Margin.
in circumstances where the realistic excess capital position is less than the statutory excess capital, the company is required to hold additional capital to cover the shortfall.
Any additional capital requirement under this test is referred to as the With-Profits insurance capital component.
The determination of realistic liabilities of the With-Profit Funds includes the value of internal transfers expected to be made from each With-Profit Fund to the non-Profit Fund held within the same life insurance entity.
These internal transfers may include charges on policies where the associated costs are borne by the non-Profit Fund.
capital statement The following table provides more detail regarding the capital resources available to meet regulatory capital requirements in the life insurance businesses.
The figures quoted are based on managements current expectations pending completion of the annual financial returns to the FsA.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 196 197 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Table 1.62: Capital resources unaudited UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK non-Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With-Profit Fund With-Profit Fund Fund Fund Life Business Life Business m m m m m m At 31 December 2012 statutory basis shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 6 1,791 562 2,359 Held within the long-term funds 6,259 225 6,484 Total shareholders funds 6,265 1,791 787 8,843 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: unallocated surplus within insurance business 205 62 267 Value of in-force business 5,056 718 5,774 Other differences between iFRs and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 101 175 152 78 Estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the FsA reporting treatment 305 62 367 Qualifying loan capital 2,238 2,238 support arrangement assets 190 190 Available capital resources 90 1,120 3,854 221 5,285 At 31 december 2011 statutory basis shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 1,843 632 2,475 Held within the long-term funds 6,592 312 6,904 Total shareholders funds 6,592 1,843 944 9,379 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: unallocated surplus within insurance business 242 58 300 Value of in-force business 5,491 818 6,309 Other differences between iFRs and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 107 163 124 68 Estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the FsA reporting treatment 341 58 399 Qualifying loan capital 1,997 1,997 support arrangement assets 184 184 Available capital resources 85 1,024 3,677 250 5,036 Available capital resources for With-Profit Funds are presented in the table on a realistic basis as this is more onerous than on a regulatory basis.
Formal intra-group capital arrangements scottish Widows has a formal arrangement with one of its subsidiary undertakings, scottish Widows unit Funds limited, whereby the subsidiary company can draw down capital from scottish Widows to finance new business which is reinsured from the parent to its subsidiary.
scottish Widows has also provided subordinated loans to its fellow group undertaking scottish Widows Bank plc.
no such arrangement exists for clerical Medical.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 196 197 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Constraints over available capital resources Scottish Widows scottish Widows was created following the demutualisation of scottish Widows Fund and life Assurance society in 2000.
The terms of the demutualisation are governed by a court-approved scheme of Transfer the scheme which, inter alia, created a With-Profits Fund and a non-Participating Fund and established protected capital support for the with-profits policyholders in existence at the date of demutualisation.
Much of that capital support is held in the non-Participating Fund and, as such, the capital held in that fund is subject to the constraints noted below.
The requirements of the scheme sit alongside scottish Widows published Principles and Practices of Financial Management of With-Profit business.
Requirement to maintain a Support Account: The scheme requires the maintenance of a support Account within the non-Participating Fund.
The quantum of the support Account is calculated with reference to the value of assets backing current with-profits policies which also existed at the date of demutualisation.
under the scheme assets can only be transferred from the non-Participating Fund if the value of the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the value of the support Account.
scottish Widows has obtained from the FsA permission to include the value of the support Account or, if greater, the excess of realistic liabilities for business written before demutualisation over the relevant assets subject to the non-Participating Fund being able to cover this amount by its surplus admissible assets in assessing the realistic value of assets available to the With-Profit Fund.
At 31 december 2012 the estimated value of surplus admissible assets in the non-Participating Fund was 1,430 million 2011: 1,198 million and the estimated value of the support Account was nil 2011: nil.
However, at 31 december 2012, the excess of realistic liabilities of with-profits business written before demutualisation over the relevant assets was 62 million 2011: 67 million which, in accordance with the FsAs permission, has been used to assess the estimated value of realistic assets available to the With-Profit Fund and has therefore reduced the value of the non-Participating Funds surplus admissible assets by that amount.
Further Support Account: The Further support Account is an extra tier of capital support for the with-profits policies in existence at the date of demutualisation.
The scheme requires that assets can only be transferred from the non-Participating Fund if the economic value of the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the aggregate of the support Account and Further support Account.
unlike the support Account test, the economic value used for this test includes both admissible assets and the present value of future profits of business written in the non-Participating Fund or by any subsidiaries of that fund.
The balance of the Further support Account is expected to reduce to nil by the year 2030.
At 31 december 2012, the estimated net economic value of the non-Participating Fund and its subsidiaries for the purposes of this test was 5,647 million 2011: 5,494 million and the estimated combined value of the support Account and Further support Account was 2,171 million 2011: 2,291 million.
Other restrictions in the Non-Participating Fund: in addition to the policies which existed at the date of demutualisation, the With-Profit Fund includes policies which have been written since that date.
As a result of statements made to policyholders that investment policy will usually be the same for both types of business, there is an implicit requirement to hold additional regulatory assets in respect of the business written after demutualisation.
The estimated amount required to provide such support at 31 december 2012 is 128 million 2011: 117 million.
scottish Widows has obtained from the FsA permission to include the value of this support in assessing the realistic value of assets available to the With-Profit Fund.
There is a further test requiring that no amounts can be transferred from the non-Participating Fund of scottish Widows unless there are sufficient assets within the long-Term Fund to meet both policyholders reasonable expectations in light of liabilities in force at a year-end and the new business expected to be written over the following year.
Clerical Medical The surplus held in the clerical Medical With-Profit Fund can only be applied to meet the requirements of the fund itself or distributed according to the prescribed rules of the fund.
shareholders are entitled to an amount not exceeding one ninth of the amount distributed to policyholders in the form of bonuses on traditional with-profits business.
The use of capital within the fund is also subject to the terms of the scheme of demutualisation effected in 1996 and the conditions contained in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management of the fund.
in extreme circumstances capital within the clerical Medical non-Profit Fund may be made available to support the With-Profit Fund.
Other life insurance businesses Except as described above capital held in uK non-Profit Funds is potentially transferable to other parts of the Group, subject to meeting the regulatory requirements of these businesses.
There are no prior arrangements in place to allow capital to move freely between life insurance entities or other parts of the Group.
Overseas life business includes several life companies outside the uK, including Germany and ireland.
in all cases the available capital resources are subject to local regulatory requirements, and transfer to other parts of the Group is subject to additional complexity surrounding the transfer of capital from one country to another.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 198 199 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Movements in regulatory capital The movements in the Groups available capital resources in the life business can be analysed as follows: Table 1.63: Movements in available capital resources unaudited UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK non-Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With-Profit Fund With-Profit Fund Fund Fund Life Business Life Business m m m m m m At 31 december 2011 85 1,024 3,677 250 5,036 changes in estimations and in demographic assumptions used to measure life assurance liabilities 11 4 81 6 68 dividends and capital transactions 205 215 74 346 change in support arrangements 6 6 new business and other factors 10 4 184 38 51 165 At 31 December 2012 90 1,120 3,854 221 5,285 With-Profit Funds Available capital in the scottish Widows With-Profit Fund has increased from 85 million at 31 december 2011 to an estimated 90 million at 31 december 2012.
Available capital in the clerical Medical With-Profit Fund is estimated to be zero at 31 december 2012 no change from 31 december 2011.
This is because the fund is in the process of distributing the free estate and all surplus will ultimately be distributed to policyholders.
uK non-Profit Funds Available capital in the uK non-Profit Funds has increased from 1,024 million at 31 december 2011 to an estimated 1,120 million at 31 december 2012.
This is mainly due to income on existing business offset by the impact of writing new business, positive investment returns, one-off transfers and an increase in provisions.
uK life shareholder Funds Available capital in the uK life shareholder Funds has increased from 3,677 million at 31 december 2011 to an estimated 3,854 million at 31 december 2012.
The increase is mainly due to dividend receipts and transfers between funds offset by the issue of and payments on subordinated debt.
Overseas life business Available capital has decreased during 2012 due to a dividend payment which was partially offset by profits emerging on new and in force business.
Analysis of policyholder liabilities reported in the balance sheet in respect of the Groups life insurance business is as follows.
With-Profit Fund liabilities are valued in accordance with FRs 27.
Table 1.64: Analysis of policyholder liabilities unaudited Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK non-Profit Overseas Total With-Profit Fund With-Profit Fund Funds Life Business Life Business m m m m m At 31 December 2012 With-Profit Fund liabilities 13,779 8,248 2 22,029 unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 38,756 8,429 47,185 Other life insurance business 12,923 2 12,925 insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,779 8,248 51,681 8,431 82,139 non-participating investment contract liabilities 49,929 4,443 54,372 Total policyholder liabilities 13,779 8,248 101,610 12,874 136,511 At 31 december 2011 With-Profit Fund liabilities 13,651 9,300 4 22,955 unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 34,660 7,801 42,461 Other life insurance business 12,559 55 12,614 insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,651 9,300 47,223 7,856 78,030 non-participating investment contract liabilities 45,469 4,167 49,636 Total policyholder liabilities 13,651 9,300 92,692 12,023 127,666 The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 198 199 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Capital sensitivities shareholders funds shareholders funds outside the long-term business fund are invested in readily tradable assets e. g. equities and fixed interest securities, cash and a range of less liquid fixed interest instruments, at levels consistent with the liquidity risk appetite of the insurance business.
With-Profit Funds The with-profits realistic liabilities and the available capital for the With-Profit Funds are sensitive to both market conditions and changes to a number of non-economic assumptions that affect the valuation of the liabilities of the fund.
The available capital resources and capital requirements are sensitive to the level of the stock market, with the position worsening at low stock market levels as a result of the guarantees to policyholders increasing in value.
However, the exposure to guaranteed annuity options increases under rising stock market levels.
An increase in the level of equity volatility implied by the market cost of equity put options also increases the market consistent value of the options given to policyholders and worsens the capital position.
Various hedging strategies are used to manage these exposures.
The most critical non-economic assumptions are the level of take-up of options inherent in the contracts higher take-up rates are more onerous, mortality rates lower mortality rates are generally more onerous and lapses prior to dates at which a guarantee would apply lower lapse rates are generally more onerous where guarantees are in the money.
The sensitivity of the capital position and capital requirements of the With-Profit Funds is partly mitigated by the actions that can be taken by management.
Other long-term funds Outside the With-Profit Funds, assets backing actuarial reserves in respect of policyholder liabilities are invested so that the values of the assets and liabilities are broadly matched.
The most critical non-economic assumptions are mortality rates in respect of annuity business written lower mortality rates are more onerous.
Assumptions relating to future expenses are also significant with increases in the expected level of future costs leading to increases in the value of the liabilities and consequently leading to a reduction in available capital.
Reinsurance arrangements are in place to reduce the Groups exposure to deteriorating mortality rates in respect of non-annuity life insurance contracts such that assured life mortality is a less significant assumption.
For clerical Medical, assumptions relating to the provision in relation to German insurance business litigation are also significant.
Assets held in excess of those backing reserves are invested in readily tradable assets e. g. equities and fixed interest securities, cash and a range of less liquid fixed interest instruments, at levels consistent with the risk appetite of the insurance business.
Options and guarantees The Group has sold insurance products that contain options and guarantees, both within the With-Profit Funds and in other funds.
Options and guarantees within the With-Profit Funds The most significant options and guarantees provided from within the With-Profit Funds are in respect of guaranteed minimum cash benefits on death, maturity, retirement or certain policy anniversaries, and guaranteed annuity options on retirement for certain pension policies.
For those policies written in scottish Widows pre-demutualisation containing potentially valuable options and guarantees, under the terms of the scheme a separate memorandum account was set up within the With-Profit Fund of scottish Widows called the Additional Account which is available, inter alia, to meet any additional costs of providing guaranteed benefits in respect of those policies.
The Additional Account had a value at 31 december 2012 of 2.1 billion 2011: 2.0 billion.
The eventual cost of providing benefits on policies written both pre and post demutualisation is dependent upon a large number of variables, including future interest rates and equity values, demographic factors, such as mortality, and the proportion of policyholders who seek to exercise their options.
The ultimate cost will therefore not be known for many years.
As noted above, under the realistic capital regime of the FsA, the liabilities of both the clerical Medical and scottish Widows With-Profit Funds are valued using a market-consistent stochastic simulation model.
This model is used in order to place a value on the options and guarantees which captures both their intrinsic value and their time value.
The most significant economic assumptions included in the model are: Risk-free yield.
The risk-free yield is defined as spot yields derived from the government bond yield curve.
The calibration of the stochastic simulation model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or historical observed volatility where it is not possible to observe meaningful prices.
For example, at 31 december 2012, the 10 year equity-implied atthe-money assumption was set at 26.3 per cent 2011: 27.2 per cent.
The assumption for property volatility was 15 per cent 2011: 15 per cent.
The volatility of interest rates has been calibrated to the implied volatility of swaptions which was broadly 18 per cent 2011: 19 per cent.
The model includes a matrix of the correlations between each of the underlying modelled asset types.
The correlations used are consistent with long-term historical returns.
The most significant non-economic assumptions included in the model are management actions in respect of investment policy and bonus rates, guaranteed annuity option take-up rates and assumptions regarding persistency both of which are based on recent actual experience and include an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities, and assumptions regarding mortality which are based on recent actual experience and industry tables.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 200 201 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Options and guarantees outside the With-Profit Funds A number of typical guarantees are provided outside the With-Profit Funds such as guaranteed payments on death e. g. term assurance or guaranteed income for life e. g. annuities.
in addition, certain personal pension policyholders in scottish Widows, for whom reinstatement to their occupational pension scheme was not an option, have been given a guarantee that their pension and other benefits will correspond in value to the benefits of the relevant occupational pension scheme.
The key assumptions affecting the ultimate value of the guarantee are future salary growth, gilt yields at retirement, annuitant mortality at retirement, marital status at retirement and future investment returns.
There is currently a provision, calculated on a deterministic basis, of 56 million 2011: 61 million in respect of those guarantees.
if future salary growth were 0.5 per cent per annum greater than assumed, the liability would increase by approximately 2 million.
if yields were 0.5 per cent lower than assumed, the liability would increase by approximately 8 million.
The Groups approach to risk 116 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Principal risks and uncertainties 118 200 201 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 State Funding and State Aid 124 Emerging risks 125 Risk governance 126 Full analysis of risk drivers 131 1 18 77 203 355 Financial reporting risk Definition Financial reporting risk is defined as the risk that the Group suffers reputational damage, loss of investor confidence and or financial loss arising from the adoption of inappropriate accounting policies, ineffective controls over financial reporting, failure to manage the associated risks of changes in taxation rates, law, ownership or corporate structure and the failure to disclose Through a system of internal accurate and timely information.
controls we deliver meaningful, transparent and timely disclosures.
Risk Appetite The risk appetite is set by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently.
it includes complying with statutory and regulatory reporting requirements, compliance with tax legislation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
exposure Exposure represents the sufficiency of the Groups policies and procedures to maintain adequate systems, processes and controls to support statutory, prudential regulatory and tax reporting, to prevent and detect financial reporting fraud, to manage the Groups tax position and to support market disclosures.
Measurement Financial reporting risk is measured by the adequacy of and compliance with a number of key controls.
identification of potential financial reporting risk also forms a part of the Groups Operational Risk management framework.
Mitigation The Group maintains a system of internal controls, which is designed to: ensure that accounting policies are consistently applied, transactions are recorded and undertaken in accordance with delegated authorities, that assets are safeguarded and liabilities are properly recorded: enable the calculation, preparation and reporting of financial, prudential regulatory and tax outcomes in accordance with applicable international Financial Reporting standards, statutory and regulatory requirements: ensure that disclosures are made on a timely basis in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements and as far as possible are consistent with best practice and in compliance with the British Bankers Association code for Financial Reporting disclosure.
Monitoring Financial reporting risk is actively monitored at business unit and Group levels.
There are specific programmes of work undertaken across the Group to support: annual assessments of 1 the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting: and 2 the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, both in accordance with the requirements of the us sarbanes Oxley Act: annual certifications by the senior Accounting Officer with respect to the maintenance of appropriate tax accounting arrangements, in accordance with the requirements of the 2009 Finance Act.
The Group also has in place an assurance process to support its prudential regulatory reporting and monitoring activities designed to identify and review tax exposures on a regular basis.
There is ongoing monitoring to assess the impact of emerging regulation and legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting.
The Group has a disclosure committee which assists the Group chief Executive and Group Finance director in fulfilling their disclosure responsibilities under relevant listing requirements.
in addition, the Audit committee reviews the quality and acceptability of the Groups financial disclosures.
For further information on the Audit committees responsibilities relating to financial reporting see page 94.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial Statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group 202 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 RisK MAnAGEMEnT Governance risk Definition Governance risk is defined as the risk that the Groups organisational infrastructure fails to provide robust oversight of decision making and the control mechanisms to ensure strategies The Groups internal and management instructions are implemented effectively.
governance framework is Risk Appetite actively managed to ensure it Governance risk appetite is defined and embedded through the Groups Governance Policy remains appropriate and aligned which is reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
to the Groups risk appetite and changing business needs.
exposure The internal governance arrangements of major financial institutions are currently subject to a high level of regulatory and public scrutiny.
The Groups exposure to governance risk is also reflective of the significant volume of existing and proposed legislation and regulation within the uK and overseas with which it must comply.
Measurement The Groups governance arrangements are assessed against new or proposed legislation and regulation in order to identify any areas of enhancement required.
Mitigation The Groups internal governance framework consists of the following key components: clearly defined authorities and accountabilities delegated to business management, which ultimately derive from the Board: core principles established to ensure consistent and effective internal governance and decision-making arrangements at business level: a Group Policy framework which defines clear control requirements for the business and supports effective risk management: and a risk management model based on three lines of defence, with clear allocation of responsibilities for risk management, oversight and independent challenge.
The Ethics Policy and supporting codes of Personal Responsibility and Business Responsibility embody the Groups values and reflect its commitment to operating responsibly and ethically both at a business and an individual level.
All colleagues are required to adhere to the codes in all aspects of their roles.
Monitoring A review of the Groups governance and internal control framework, including the status of the Groups Principles and Policy Framework, and the design and operational effectiveness of key governance committees, is undertaken on an annual basis and the findings reported to the Group Risk committee, Board Risk committee and the Board.
For further information on corporate Governance see pages 86 to 97.
Lloyds Banking Group 203 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FinAnciAl sTATEMEnTs 28.
Goodwill Report of the independent auditors on Notes to the consolidated 29.
Value of in-force business the consolidated financial statements 204 financial statements 214 30.
Basis of preparation Consolidated income statement 206 31.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements of comprehensive income 207 33.
Segmental analysis Consolidated balance sheet 208 34.
Net interest income Consolidated statement 35.
Trading and other financial liabilities at fair 6.
Net fee and commission income value through profit or loss of changes in equity 210 7.
Insurance premium income Consolidated cash flow statement 213 37.
Liabilities arising from insurance contracts 9.
Other operating income and participating investment contracts 10.
Investments in joint ventures and associates 40.
U nallocated surplus within insurance businesses 14.
Loss on disposal of businesses in 2010 41.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value 44.
Other provisions through profit or loss 45.
Loans and advances to banks 47.
Loans and advances to customers 48.
Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 51.
A llowance for impairment losses on loans 52.
Related party transactions and receivables 53.
Approval of financial statements Report of the independent Notes to the parent company auditors on the parent company financial statements 348 financial statements 344 1.
Deferred tax asset Parent company balance sheet 345 3.
Amounts due from subsidiaries Parent company statement 4.
Share capital and share premium of changes in equity 346 5.
Other reserves Parent company cash flow statement 347 6.
Approval of the financial statements and other information
