38 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties The Group is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may havean impact on the Groups ability to execute its strategy and deliver itsexpected performance.
The identification, assessment and Overview of Principal Risks: management of risks remain central to the Groups operating framework.
The Market Risks Operational Risks risk management framework is described in the Corporate Governance section on Clients and competition Change management pages 50 to 51.
The Report of the Audit Changing regulatory environment Employees and Risk Committee, on pages 52 to 53 Fiscal regime and political environment Security threats provides details on the work carried out to Ongoing operations assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for risk management and Value of shares to be acquired in LCH.
Clearnet systems of internal control.
Investment risk In addition, the Groups approach to financial risks are detailed on pages 77 to 81.
Principal Market Risks The risks arising from the economic, political, competitive and regulatory environment within which the Group operates.
Risk decreased Risk increased No change Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary Change from last year Clients and Competition We operate in markets that are characterised by Competitive markets are by their very nature increasing competition and choice for clients, as well dynamic and the effects of competitor activity as continued concentration of business from a relatively can never be fully mitigated.
The new, structured small customer base.
Client alignment is paramount client engagement programme implemented last to the successful operation and growth of our business.
year in response to increasing competition has For more helped enhance our competitiveness.
These efforts Whilst regulatory changes removed some barriers to information, are complemented with an ongoing focus on new competition and afforded the Group the opportunity see the technology deployment and on cost reduction.
to compete for pan-European trading, it also resulted Business Review, in increased competition, a consequential loss of Senior management are actively engaged with pages 17 to 31 market share and pressure on fee levels in the Groups clients, the Group includes major customers as existingmarkets.
minority shareholders of certain businesses and aligns commercial initiatives withclients.
In our international primary markets business there is increasing competition from Asia, particularly We maintain a dedicated international marketing HongKong, which is seeking to attract high profile team focused on key target markets, promoting the international listings.
The competition with New York benefits of listing on Group markets to international remains significant.
issuers, the global advisory community and otherstakeholders.
The Group considers that these efforts and the more certain nature of some of the proposed regulatory changes have, to an extent, counteracted the impact of increased competition.
The proposed acquisition of a controlling interest in LCH.
Clearnet is intended to substantially increase our footprint in the international clearing house market.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 39 Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary Change from last year Changing regulatory environment The global policy makers and regulators, including the Changes in the regulatory environment form a EU, continue with their programmes for introducing a key input into our strategic planning, including range of measures intended to reduce risk in financial the impact on our growth strategies, both organic services.
There are considerable similarities between andinorganic.
many of regulatory initiatives, especially those of the We continually monitor regulatory developments For more EU and USA.
and have direct engagement with regulatory and information see The commitments to the G20 objectives by the EU and governmental authorities at a national, EU and Market position Member States, continue to be the driving imperative international level.
We continue to develop our and outlook, of most of these measures, which are likely to lead to relationships with the key political stakeholders, pages 8 to 11, closer and more intrusive regulation of all financial particularly at EU and UK level.
Chairmans services firms and infrastructure providers.
statement, pages Potential impacts from regulatory change are 12 to 13, and Chief Politicians continue to press for increased central EU assessed and, depending on the impact, opportunities Executives review, supervision and regulation in reaction to the financial are developed and mitigating actions are planned.
pages 14 to 15 crisis and as demanded by their constituents.
As the various proposals take shape, there is often The key measures directly affecting the Group are greater certainty about the proposed measures.
the MiFID review, implementation of European The Group continues to consider that, balancing Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR, Central the negative and positive outcomes, the likelihood Securities Depository Regulation CSDR and the of major adverse regulatory developments remains future TARGET2-Securities Europe settlement reduced in the light of the Commissions proposals platform T2S, and Crisis Management arrangements in MiFID and the final text of EMIR.
opportunities exist for the Group to deliver solutions to help the market address the changing There are also planned measures on capital .
requirements, securities law, corporate governance, market abuse and issuer transparency and the possible The Group believes that it should be able to meet introduction of financial transactions activity taxes.
required capital resources from its strong operating cashflow, although it will need to monitor the In the UK, the Governments Financial Services Bill development of the Level II measures under EMIR, is progressing through Parliament with its proposal consider the potential impact of the equivalent to replace the FSA with two new regulators, the PRA, measures under the US Dodd-Frank provisions responsible for micro prudential regulation and FCA, having regard to the proposed acquisition of a responsible for conduct, markets and consumer controlling interest in LCH.
Clearnet, and respond protection, and a Financial Policy Committee to to the regulators requirements, including the FSAs advise on macro systemic risk.
updated requirements for Recognised Bodies, The FSA has also recently consulted on the Financial oncefinalised.
Risk Requirements for Recognised Bodies exchanges and clearing houses and we are awaiting its proposals in this respect.
The Group has regular, normal course discussions with its regulators in the UK and Italy regarding its capital and liquidity resources.
Regulatory change creates a more uncertain environment for the Group to plan and execute its business strategy.
Changes may occur that have an adverse effect on the Groups business but may also provide new growth opportunities.
Associated direct risks include potentially increased capital requirements and higher operating and compliance costs.
Indirect risks include a reduction in participation and trading clearing activity and reduction in capital markets activity.
40 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary Change from last year Fiscal regime and political environment Public finances in Europe are under increasing The Group liaises closely with Government bodies and pressure as Governments tighten the fiscal regime.
maintains cross-party political relationships, playing The continued challenging economy and the impact an active role by sharing expertise and experience of the fiscal rescue packages across some Eurozone with policy makers on the impact of Government members could expose the Group to an increased risk and regulatory decisions on financial markets.
For more of disruption resulting from market instability and The Group has undertaken stress testing of market information, financial failure in our clients and suppliers.
The Group systems to ensure sufficient volume capacity to see Market has significant operations in Italy, which is one of the maintain orderly markets in the event of increased position and Eurozone countries impacted by the financial crisis.
volatility as a result of the Eurozone debt crisis.
outlook, pages As a result, the Group has asubstantial proportion of However, the extent and related consequences of the 8 to 11, and its assets and liabilities denominated in euros and crisis are difficult to predict and, given the uncertainty, Financial risk income arising from customers and products which the impact of a critical country leaving the Eurozone is management, are exposed to the Eurozone and euro-denominated difficult to mitigate in terms of financial consequences.
pages 77 to 81 securities, and accordingly it is exposed to risks that could have a material adverse impact on the financial Existing Business Continuity Management BCM condition of the Group.
and crisis management procedures would be invoked to manage the response to any sudden escalation of The reduction in UK corporation tax over the next the Eurozone situation.
three years provides some certainty and benefit for theGroup.
The move away from corporate debt and in particular bank financing is positive for the Groups equity While Sri Lanka is enjoying a period of stability, business.
In addition, Government debt requirements should this situation deteriorate, it could impact can assist the Groups fixed income business.
The Group maintains regular contact with key Governmental parties in Sri Lanka and has appropriate contingency plans in place to ensure key technology operations are not dependent on a single geography.
Principal Operational Risks The risks arising from the people, systems and processes through which the Group operates.
Change management The Group has a number of major, complex projects The senior management team, which has been and strategic actions underway concurrently, including further strengthened during the year, is focused implementation of new technology systems, cost on the implementation of the Groups strategy and management initiatives, and strategic development the project pipeline in view of their importance of the Groups post trade and derivatives businesses.
For more If not delivered to sufficiently high standards and Each project, including those in respect of M&A information within agreed timescales, these could have an adverse and integration, is managed via a dedicated project see Chairmans impact on the operation of core services, and revenue workstream, overseen by senior management.
statement, growth, as well as damaging the Groups reputation.
pages 12 to 13, Rigorous software design methodologies, testing The volume of simultaneous change could also lead and Chief regimes and test environments are employed to to a loss of client goodwill.
Synergies and cost benefits Executives minimise implementation risk.
may not be delivered to anticipated levels.
With regard review, to the capability of the Groups MillenniumIT offering, Product development teams are being strengthened pages 14 to 15 losing the balance between key growth projects and toensure the Group can continue to deliver on-going product development may impact the future advanced trading and information technology competitiveness of the Groups technology platforms.
With regards to M&A and integration activities, The risk has reduced as the Group has successfully the additional projects and workstreams could have implemented significant projects in the past year, an adverse impact on the day-to-day performance, including the further roll-out of Millennium key strategic initiatives and could damage the Exchange for the Groups markets.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 41 Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary Change from last year Employees The calibre, quality and retention of employees are The Group operates a performance management critical to the success of the Group.
and appraisal system, and Executive development opportunities are provided with the Nominations The loss of key members of staff could have an adverse Committee responsible for considering succession impact on the Groups operations and ability to execute plans for key senior positions.
The Group recognises the For more importance of retaining and developing employee skills A performance related annual bonus and pay information and balancing resource allocation in the face of the review process is in place for all employees and see Our wider changing nature of the Groups business environment.
regular benchmarking of reward and incentive responsibility, systems is performed to ensure they are competitive.
pages 36 to 37 The Groups ability to attract and retain high quality and individuals depends on the condition of recruitment The Group also offers Long Term Incentive Plans Remuneration markets and corresponding compensation packages for high performers and critical staff, although these Report, pages of financial services, technology firms and regulators have not realised significant value in recent years.
54 to 63 with which the Group competes for the same key staff.
Staff turnover is monitored and reported to the senior executives quarterly.
A centralised training budget allows a co-ordinated approach to development across the Group.
Security threats The Group is dependent on having secure premises The Group has well established business and uninterrupted operation of its IT systems and continuity and crisis management procedures.
Potential security threats therefore The Group takes security threats very seriously require continuous monitoring and assessment.
and has robust physical security arrangements Terrorist and cyber attacks and similar activities in place, which have been further enhanced directed against our offices, operations, computer this year.
systems or networks could disrupt our markets, harm Extensive information and IT security measures staff, tenants and visitors, and severely disrupt our are in place.
These include the monitoring of business and operations.
Similarly civil or political intelligence and close liaison with the police unrest could impact on companies within the Group.
Long term unavailability of key premises or trading The risk mitigation against both physical and and information outages and corruption of data IT threats is long and well established and as could lead to the loss of client confidence and aresult our residual risk remains unchanged.
Security risks have escalated due to the increasing sophistication of cyber crime.
42 Business review London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary Change from last year Ongoing operations The Groups businesses and major revenue The performance and availability of the Group systems streams are highly dependent on secure and stable are constantly reviewed and monitored to prevent technology performing to high levels of availability problems arising where possible and ensure a prompt and throughput.
Any technology failures will impact response to any potential service interruption issues.
on our clients and can potentially lead to a loss of The Groups Technology Services management team For more trading volumes and adversely impact the Groups mitigates this risk by ensuring prioritisation of all information reputation and brand.
development and operations activities, and resource see the The Group now increasingly provides its IT utilisation and allocation is kept under constant review.
Technology development and operations in-house, with Services The MillenniumIT systems are designed to be fault particular reliance on MillenniumIT, following section of the tolerant and in addition alternative standby computer the successful migration of the Groups UK markets Business Review, facilities are maintained to minimise the risk of onto Millennium technology.
Whilst this gives the pages 30 to 31 systemdisruptions.
Group a greater degree of control in this area, there remains a risk of resource over-stretch to meet The Group actively manages relationships with key both the requirements of the Group and those strategic IT suppliers to avoid any breakdown in of thirdparties.
service provision which could adversely affect the Groups businesses.
Where possible the Group has The Group also has dependencies on a number of identified alternative suppliers that could be engaged third parties for the provision of hardware, software, in the event of a third party failing to deliver on its communication and networks for elements of its .
trading, data and other systems.
Clearnet shares purchased by the Group may be less than the consideration paid The Group provides CCP services in a complex, Comprehensive due diligence was performed as New multi-jurisdictional legal environment.
the risk that to successfully manage a default they This covered operational risks, detailed review of may have to take action against insolvent members margin methodology, default fund calculations and and, if a CCPs rights are restricted in any way or deposit counterparty risk.
For more insufficient collateral has been posted by a member, Under the terms of the implementation agreement information such a default could adversely affect the CCP and between the Company, London Stock Exchange C see Chairmans itsGroup.
Clearnet Group Limited in respect statement, Prior to completion of the proposed transaction of the transaction, the Company is able to terminate page 13, with LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited, it is possible the implementation agreement and cause the and Chief that there could be a similar or equivalent adverse Companys offer for LCH.
Clearnet to lapse, including in Executives event affecting LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited which certain circumstances where a regulatory development review, page 15 would not give rise to a right to the Group to terminate occurs or a material regulatory licence is withdrawn, the transaction.
Such a risk is considered common for which would have or would be reasonably likely to atransaction of this nature, however in such an event have a material adverse effect in the context of the the value of the LCH.
Clearnet shares purchased by transaction on LCH.
Clearnet Group Limited and or the Group may be less than the consideration paid where LCH.
Group Clearnet Limited materially by the Group at completion of the transaction and, breaches the terms of certain customary preaccordingly, the net assets of the Group could be completion undertakings it has provided to LSEG.
This could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and operating results of the Group following completion.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Business review Annual Report 2012 43 Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary Change from last year Investment risk The Groups clearing provider, CC&G, maintains a To date, CC&G has not experienced a failure of one significant quantum of cash and securities deposited of its deposit counterparties nor any loss as a result as margin or as default funds by clearing members.
of the default of a member.
To ensure optimum on-going liquidity and immediate The financial risks associated with clearing trades access to funds, it deposits the cash received into are mitigated by: For more the local bank market on an unsecured basis.
There information see is arisk of a partial loss of the funds should a depositstrict membership rules: the Post Trade taking bank in which funds are deposited default.
the maintenance of prudent levels of margin and Services section default funds to cover exposures to participants: and CC&G guarantees final settlement of trades and of the Business back-up credit facilities supporting daily liquidity.
manages counterparty risk in a range of assets and Review, pages instruments including cash equities, derivatives, Committees overseeing membership, risk and financial 22 to 25, and energy products and Government bonds.
As such risk meet on a regular basis.
Financial Risk the Group is exposed to country risk, credit risk, management, Investments are made in compliance with the Financial issuer risk, market risk, liquidity risk, interest rate pages 78 to 79 Management Policy issued by the Financial Risk risk and foreign exchange risk.
This limits deposits of margin and default funds to investment grade banks or if unrated Italian listed banks that are appropriately capitalised.
During the year we have further expanded the number of counterparties that take CC&Gs deposits to diversify this risk including the introduction of Italian-based branches of major international banks.
We maintain a close dialogue with Bank of Italy, the regulator of CC&G and its deposit-taking bank counterparties.
All deposits are callable at CC&Gs option at sight or, for term deposits, with a maximum of two business days notice.
Positions are monitored daily and are subject to regular reporting to the Executive Committee.
