22 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Risk management Mans comprehensive risk management framework and processes form an essential part of our business model to oversee the interests of both investors and shareholders.
Mans risk management framework Mans Risk Appetite Statements Overall responsibility for risk management rests with Mans Board, Relating to the investment managementprocess: whocommunicate this through the risk appetite statements, and the Compliance with terms of investment mandate.
framework and governance established to implement these.
The risk Funds to be managed so that investor redemptions can be met in appetite statements were reviewed in 2012, and adjustments were made accordance with the contractual terms.
to quantify operational and business risk tolerance.
The aim of the review Compliance with external financing terms.
was to give greater clarity of intent, not to change the actual quantum of Credit risk from counterparty exposures is mitigated.
risk that Man is seeking to take on.
The amended risk appetite No malfeasance fraud relating to i trading activity, ii external fund statements are in the panel to the right.
No material individual operational losses exposures quantitative The three aspects of an all-round approach to risk management at Man limits defined on total operational risk capital and individual are demonstrated in the figure below.
These are embedded throughout scenarios.
the Group by the risk governance structure.
Minimisation of potential liability arising from mis-selling.
No breach of law or regulation governing the business of Risk Management Components investment management.
Relating to Man Group: No material unresolved conflicts of interest between Man and investors.
No material breach of law or regulation for corporate activities.
Investment No material malfeasance fraud.
No material consequences from the loss of key personnel.
Financial Stability the Group should maintain positive EBITDA and an appropriate capital and liquidity surplus on a forward Enterprise looking basis.
Operational Financial Three Lines of Defence The overall risk governance framework at Man is implemented through The framework instils the principles of direct responsibility for primary risk the three lines of defence, and overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee management down to each business unit and their function.
Embedding as delegated by the Board.
accountability at the business level is the first line of defence.
Board The business functions are monitored by a number of risk control Audit & Risk Committee functions i. e. Risk, Finance, Legal, Compliance, Human Resources and Information Security, which form the second line of defence.
1st line 2nd line 3rd line The independent review and oversight provided by Internal and External Compliance Business Audit is the third line of defence, to ensure controls and processes are Management appropriate and are functioning as envisaged.
Risk Although Man and the investors in its products are susceptible to In Business losses, we believe our risk management framework creates long-term Risk Management value through the process of risk-aware decision making, and the Legal strength and robustness of our governance structure provide us with acompetitive advantage.
Operational Financial Controls Management Group Internal audit External audit 23 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Mans governance Developments in 2012 The Board and CEO set out a delegation of authority to a number of Consistent with the lower levels of FUM and the challenging environment committees to be directly accountable for the formulation, implementation as described in the CEO report, Man has actively reduced balance sheet and oversight of the policies in place across the Group designed to risk throughout the year.
The Group actively manages its balance sheet identify and manage risks within the context of the Boards risk appetite: through the Finance Committee, where potential and actual impacts to the balance sheet are presented and discussed, and appropriate limits The Executive Committee is accountable for all risks assumed in the and controls are set.
business and is responsible for the execution of appropriate risk management discipline.
Most significantly, the Group sold the holding in residual Lehman claims The Audit & Risk Committee ARCom is a committee of the Board that was purchased from several GLG managed funds in 2011, further which has oversight of the Assurance functions see page 34 for strengthening Mans capital and liquidity position.
Man has also further detail.
continued to sell other market-related positions held on balance sheet, The Risk Assurance Committee RAC oversees the operational, thus lowering risk.
regulatory and reputational risks faced by the Group and the internal control environment, and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, CRO.
There was significant risk due-diligence carried out prior to the FRM The Finance Committee approves actual and contingent use of the acquisition and minimisation of operational risk as the legacy entities were Group balance sheet and manages the adequacy of economic and brought together.
regulatory capital and liquidity buffers, and is chaired by the CFO.
Principal risks and mitigants Risk Mitigation 1.
Investment underperformance risks Fund underperformance on an absolute basis, relative to a benchmark or This is the key risk Man has to accept if it is to undertake its business.
relative to peer groups would reduce funds under management and may Mans investment businesses each have clearly defined investment result in lower subscriptions and higher redemptions.
This may also result processes designed to target and deliver on the investment mandate of in dissatisfied clients, negative press and reputational damage.
As described in the CFO report, macro conditions have severely impacted on Mans ability to perform in 2012.
Mans exposure to negative performance is further magnified due to Appropriate investment restrictions and limits are designed and leverage embedded in some guaranteed products.
Man has experienced implemented to place appropriate controls and guidance for each significant fide-gearing of guaranteed products in recent years primarily product consistent with the mandate they are working within.
Lower funds under management results in lower management fee Fund and manager performance is closely monitored, and we focus on revenue and underperformance results in lower performance fees, if any.
hiring and retaining highly skilled professionals who are incentivised to outperform within the parameters of their mandate.
The table on page 13, shows the breakdown of Mans revenue sources Mans diversified range of products and strategies across the alternatives by product line.
The largest contribution is from AHL open-ended and marketplace mitigates the risk to the business from underperformance of within guaranteed products.
This has been further extended in 2012 through our acquisition of FRM, the launching of new fund products and the expansion of our Fixed Income capabilities at GLG.
2. Business transformation risks Man is undergoing several transformational changes, which impact many aspects to the Groups business, and are subject to strategy and implementation risks.
a Cost reduction Man in 2012 announced two rounds of significant cost reduction plans.
Man has delivered the first round of cost reductions as stated - the The first has been successfully implemented, and the second is in businesses planned and implemented the actions necessary to deliver on progress.
The risk is that Man is unable to action as planned and within the committed cost reductions.
b Outsourcing Man is outsourcing a number of functions that were previously performed Mans operations team, have extensive experience of running an internally.
The risks are that the outsourced service providers do not outsourcing process, and have implemented a robust methodology perform as required, resulting in knock-on implications for our business including extensive KPI monitoring to ensure that service providers are as a whole.
able to deliver as required this is in turn monitored by RAC and ARCom.
c Key staff retention The risk that a key person to the business leaves or is unable to perform Although Man attracts and retains an array of talented individuals across their role.
Clearly, the current reorganisation puts key staff retention under the Group, business and investment processes have been designed with pressure.
However broader market conditions have meant that Man has a view to minimise the impact of losing any particular key individuals.
In been able to retain the talent that it needs.
addition, there is an established succession planning process at senior levels of the business.
24 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Risk management continued Risk Mitigation 3. Credit counterparty risks The risk that a counterparty with which Man has financial transactions Man diversifies its deposits across a number of the strongest financial fails to deliver investor or shareholder assets back to the Group.
counterparties, each of which are approved by the Finance Committee and have maximum exposure limits set, in line with Mans risk appetite.
Shareholders and Investors in Man funds and products are exposed to Man monitors credit spreads and ratings of our main trading credit risk of prime brokers, clearing houses, futures clearers, depository counterparties and banks as forward indicators of their credit quality.
banks and guarantee providers, if any.
During 2012 the average CDS spreads for banks have reduced significantly as banks have restructured businesses and markets have reverted from stressed conditions.
If a default occurs and results in Man or its investors experiencing losses, Man has mitigated this risk by increasingly investing its shortterm this may adversely affect our reputation and could impact fund liquidity into US treasury bills.
Man is also in the process of doing the performance and subscriptions.
same for excess liquidity in investor portfolios.
Man also provides loans to guaranteed products, and so is subject to Guaranteed products are closely monitored, and leverage is adjusted counterparty risk to certain investor funds.
actively such that the risk of default related to balance sheet loans to funds is minimal.
Operational risks Operational Risk is defined by Man as the risk of loss resulting from Man Groups Operational Risk Policy provides an overview of the inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from responsibilities that all staff have to identify, assess, monitor and manage external events.
Operational Risk within the Group.
The policy aims to ensure everyone understands the part they must play in protecting the Group from unexpected loss or reputational harm due to an Operational Risk being inadequately controlled.
The three lines of defence model is key to managing this risk.
It is dependent on having sufficient capable people to complement the policies.
The RAC and the ARCom have reviewed the restructuring to ensure it does not have an adverse impact.
Discretionary trading risk The risk that fund managers place inappropriate trades outside of Front office systems provide automated checks and controls at portfolio mandate and regulatory boundaries.
Man may need to compensate for and trade level.
Each investment management business has dedicated any losses arising for such trades, as well as face the possibility of fines, risk management personnel who monitor portfolio profiles and provide lawsuits and reputational damage.
In addition all fund managers are required to undertake regular mandatory training to ensure they are aware of due processes and their responsibilities related to placing trades.
Reputational risks The risk that an incident or negative publicity undermines our reputation Our reputation is dependent on both our operational performance and as a leading alternative investment manager.
Reputational damage could fund performance.
Integrity is fundamental to ensuring Man is able to result in significant redemptions from our funds, and could lead to issues attract investment in funds.
Our strong governance and control structure with external financing, credit ratings and relations with our outsourcing outlined above helps mitigate operational concerns, and our attention to providers.
people and robust investment processes aim to ensure we comply with very high standards of investment management practice.
The Board regularly reviews evidence of whether the right tone from the top is beingmaintained.
25 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Managing operational risk The aim is to ensure that operational risks are identified, understood, assessed and mitigated in such a way that their financial impact is managed in accordance with a defined risk appetite.
The diagram below shows the four key elements of Mans Operational Risk Framework.
The Operational Risk Framework Key Risk Indicators Risk & Control Economic Capital Self Assessment Incident Analysis The Groups methodology for the assessment of operational risks has been enhanced by the implementation of Risk & Control Self Assessment RCSA Risk & Control Self Assessment RCSA The outcome of the RCSA is a detailed assessment of the effectiveness of risk mitigation at a granular level which can be reconciled with the top-down view of the Groups risk profile.
RCSA is at the core of our assessment of operational risks.
Key Risk Indicators and incidents are analysed to ensure that our assessment of operational risks in RCSA is up-to-date and responds to changes in the Groups operational risk profile.
Legal and regulatory focus Regulatory change, and the impact this can have on our clients and As a global manager of alternative strategies, Man operates in one of the ourbusiness, is one of the key risk areas and arguably presents an most highly-regulated spheres of business in the world.
Man entities are opportunity for Man Group, and we plan and respond accordingly.
regulated by 22 financial regulators and self-regulatory organisations in 17 Manplaces great emphasis on proactively analysing new regulatory jurisdictions around the world.
Far from being an unregulated business, developments, assisting regulators and working with trade bodies and alternative asset management demands the highest levels of regulatory market participants to assess likely impacts and risks.
Man operates a conduct, and these standards are constantly evolving.
strong legal and regulatory framework, which runs through all aspects of the business and is underpinned by experienced legal and compliance teams.
These individuals are physically located in Mans key jurisdictions 2012 has seen the transition in this regulatory arena from the development and businesses, ensuring they understand the context and impact of any of high-level principles to a process of detailed rule-making in a number of regulatory requirements.
key areas for our business.
This process will gather pace in 2013 as several of these measures are finally implemented for example the European Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive and the This long-standing regulatory experience is a key competitive advantage new US and EU rules on central clearing of over-the-counter OTC when navigating the tide of new regulation, allowing Man to leverage its derivatives.
A key challenge for Man will be its analysis of, and response to, existing capabilities to respond to regulatory change, and identify these new rules.
valuable opportunities for clients and shareholders as they arise.
