30 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance report continued Board oversight and governance The Board oversees the Companys financial reporting, risk management and regulatory compliance functions.
It also provides governance on executive remuneration and appointments.
These roles are fulfilled by the three Committees summarised below.
Full Committee terms of reference can be found on our website www.
Details of the specific areas of Committee focus during the year are given in the separate Committee reports which start on page 34.
The communication and coordination of the work of the Committees is achieved through regular reporting to the Board by Committee chairmen and the circulation of minutes and relevant papers.
Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Review the integrity of the Companys financial Recommend to the Board for approval the Keep the Boards skill and experience base reports and statements prior to approval by principles and structure of the Companys under regular review in the light of business theBoard.
changes and agree with the Board the role specification for any proposed new Review and report to the Board on the Recommend to the Board for approval the appointments.
effectiveness of Mans risk management and quantum of the Companys variable internal controls framework.
Conduct the search and selection process for new directors and recommend proposed Recommend to the Board the appointment of Recommend to the Board for approval the appointees to the Board.
the external auditors: review the scope of their annual objectives and compensation for work and their effectiveness.
Review senior executive development and succession plans to ensure continuity of resource Approve the internal audit plan: review the Approve the compensation for Executive at and just below Board level.
effectiveness of internal audit and management Committee members and FSA Code staff.
Review and recommend the renewal of Determine the contractual termination terms non-executive director appointments.
Audit and Risk Committee report forexecutive directors and any severance Page 34. payments.
Risk management and internal controls Board review of risk management and internal control systems The Board is required to maintain sound risk management and internal The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, control systems, to review their effectiveness and to report on this review maintain proper accounting records and provide assurance that the to shareholders.
Information on Mans risk management and internal financial information used in the business and published externally is control systems, which have been in place throughout the period and up robust and reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key risks rather to the date of this report, can be found in the Risk management section than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can on pages 22 to 25.
Details of Mans risk management and internal control only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material systems in relation to the financial reporting process are given below.
The systems comply with the guidance given inInternal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors the 2005 Financial reporting controls Turnbullguidance.
The financial reporting control system operating across the Company includes both appropriate preventative and detective control Mans risk management and internal control systems are regularly methodologies.
The combined methodologies are designed to ensure the reviewed by the Board.
The Board receives reports from line adequate maintenance of proper accounting records and that financial management and Group Risk on the risks to the achievement of the information used within the business and for publication is reliable and free Groups operational and financial objectives, together with assurance from material misstatement, thereby safeguarding the Companys assets.
thatthe level of risk sustained is consistent with and being managed in The framework is managed by the Financial Controls Group and is split accordance with the Boards risk appetite.
These reports include current into three main components: control ownership: account ownership: and and forward looking assessments of capital and liquidity adequacy and a entity ownership.
These require certification of the key controls over the summary risk dashboard.
financial reporting processes and material financial statement line items.
This includes pre-approval and monitoring controls, incorporating the process for preparing the consolidated accounts.
