56 Markets and risks Key risks Summary of our key risks Risk management is a complex task for all organisations.
The process of identifying, Change in risk versus 2011 Rationale for change minimising, monitoring and assessing the Technology likelihoodof adverse events is never-ending Reduced Transition to single operating platform andneeds to involve employees at all levels.
almost complete Paul Foster, Head of Corporate Risk Regulation and compliance Increased Increased number of regulatory regimes andadded complexity Assessing key risks mitigated by greater experience from Our approach to managing risk has not changed.
operating in regulated markets Wecontinuously ask ourselves: What if?
Taxation We asked this question many times during 2012 through Increased Increased number of tax-paying aprocess of increasing staff awareness and knowledge about jurisdictions keyrisks and how they might impact our business.
Risk Integration management is becoming a regular topic of discussion within management meetings outside of our regular Group-wide Reduced Integration almost complete now riskassessments.
Our managers are increasingly proactive in shifting from integration to innovation seeking to identify individual risks and what the knock-on Poker effects of an adverse event might be on other parts of the Unchanged PokerStars remains a large competitor.
Through more than 100 individual meetings and workshops in 2012, we examined whether any risk had increased, decreased or become obsolete: we identi ed new risks, especially from Our five main risk groups are: recent key business events: and also the chances of a risk Technology happening and its associated level of impact.
The number of Regulation and compliance high-level risks identi ed stayed static, but decreased as a percentage of the overall risks from 7.6% to 6.0%.
Taxation Integration A total of 32 risk workshops were held during the year, spanning Poker key business areas as well as for the Executive Directors of theBoard.
Technology Technology is at the core of our business and undergoes a The Group Risk Committee, chaired by Martin Weigold, continuous process of development.
The evolution of our ChiefFinancial Of cer, met four times in 2012 to ensure that eCommerce platform and the products and services we provide allstrategic risks were identi ed and to reach a consensus on through it is a vital process to maintain our competitive edge the signi cant risks identi ed by the 32 workshops.
These aswe address the ever-changing desires of consumers whilst riskswere then submitted to the Audit Committee for review.
upholding our reputation for responsible, safe and secure Facilitated by the Internal Audit & Risk Management team, products and services.
the32 workshops helped impress the importance of risk management throughout all business functions including As with all technology, new versions of software can require Technology, Marketing, each of the product verticals, Human additional enhancement before becoming fully effective.
Resources, Operations, Finance, Regulatory Affairs, Legal and Delaysin such enhancements can impact operational and Company Secretarial.
Many of the threats and challenges faced by online gaming Most of our gaming technology is proprietary, which means companies are similar to those faced by other leisure and thatwe are better placed to manage risks associated with entertainment industries.
They include competition, changes technological and regulatory change than competitors that toconsumer tastes, maintaining healthy financial ratios in relyon third-party software and systems.
compliance with banking covenants and loss of key personnel.
However, we do share the industrys general risks that arise from However, there are also certain risks that are more speci c to sourcing broadband and communications, data management and bwin.
party and to the online gaming industry that deserve storage services as well as a raft of other services from external particular mention.
Our aim is to offset these risks by not becoming overly reliant on any single supplier as well as having in place disaster recovery centres and business continuity plans.
party Annual report & accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting 57 The reduced level in technology risk re ects the near completion Integration of our Merger integration having already migrated signi cant The complex process of integrating bwin and PartyGaming is parts of our technology and customer base from the separate almost complete, easing both the pressure on management and platforms and systems that were operated pre-Merger, to a single, other resources.
TheIntegration Management Of ce, which was centralised operating system that supports each of our gaming set up at the timeof the Merger to drive and monitor progress verticals across multiple brands and territories.
Our Italian and across each ofthe synergy streams as well as identify constraints French technology systems andcustomer bases have yet to and inter-dependencies, was wound-up in August 2012 and the beintegrated, and a few remaining back-of ce functions have responsibilities passed back to the business units.
While there alsostill to be harmonised.
As a result, some operational risk canbe no guarantee that all elements of the integration will be remains for the business but the potential impact on revenue successful, the signi cant investment in planning and preparation isless signi cant.
To mitigate this risk we have planned ahead of the Merger has proved worthwhile.
Themain risks in this extensivelyand will run appropriate tests before switching to category are achieving financial synergies and completing the anynew systems.
migration to a single technology platform.
Regulation and compliance Poker Regulation is probably the most complex of our key risks and PokerStars remains the largest operator in most markets and a managing it effectively is a critical process for us, especially very strong competitor.
We have not changed the risk level that giventhe increasing number of countries that are introducing was reduced to one of strong competition in 2011, re ecting regulatory regimes, each of which have different requirements.
theclosure of the US-facing activities of PokerStars.
In2012, PokerStars also acquired and relaunched Full Tilt, previously Our compliance obligations range from administration of our thesecond largest poker brand in the dotcom market, which gaming licences in Gibraltar, Alderney, Denmark, France, Italy, strengthened its market position.
The migration of bwins dotcom Spain, Belgium and Schleswig-Holstein in Germany to assessing poker players to our single platform was completed at the end of what impact country-speci c and pan-regional rules and 2012, increasing our dotcom poker player liquidity pool.
However, regulations might have on our business and the wider industry.
dotcom poker remains a challenging market and the pending Whilst political and cultural attitudes towards online gaming relaunch of PartyPoker does carry risk.
As a result Poker remains continue to evolve, there is always a risk that certain territories one of our key risks.
may seek to prohibit or restrict one or more of the products that we offer or online gaming entirely.
We have a dedicated regulatory and compliance team that reports directly to the CEO and is closely supported by our legal and regional management teams.
We submit ourselves to a series of external audits as required under our gaming licences and also perform our own compliance assessments to ensure that policies and procedures are being followed and working effectively.
Taxation Taxation is the third category of risk which we believe is material.
Group companies operate for tax purposes only where they are incorporated, domiciled or registered.
Revenues earned from customers located in a particular jurisdiction may give rise to further taxes in that jurisdiction.
If such taxes are levied, either onthe basis of existing law or the current practice of any tax authority, or by reason of a change in law or practice, then this may have a material adverse effect on the amount of tax payable by the Group.
We manage these risks by considering tax as part of our overall business planning.
