10 Directors Report Risk management The Groups risk management system is subject toregular review to ensure compliance with the Key features of our system requirements of The UK Corporate Governance Code of risk management include: 2010 and Turnbull guidance 2005 on internal control and risk management.
The Directors are ultimately responsible for the Groups risk A continuing process for the identification management system and for reviewing its effectiveness.
and evaluation of significant risks to the 1 The risk management system is designed to manage, achievement ofbusiness objectives: rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Management process in place tomitigate objectives and there is an ongoing process in place for significant risks: identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting 2 on the significant risks faced by the business.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the Ongoing monitoring of significant risks approval of these financial statements.
thatmay change the businesses risk 3 The Board receives a report every six months, through the profile: and Audit Committee, of the significant risks and progress on delivery of the mitigating factors.
A regular review by the business of both thetype and amount of external insurance The principal risks facing the Group, which have been 4 purchased, bearing in mind the availability considered by the Board, are detailed below.
of such cover, its cost andlikelihood and magnitude of the riskinvolved.
Key risks Key risk Mitigating activity Economic environment Economic trading conditions continue to be a challenge.
Senior leadership is closely involved in monitoring current Should the UK Government announce further spending economic trading conditions and putting in place actions cuts to address the UK public spending deficit this may to react to any identified changes.
This could affect our growth and profitability as well as our ability to finance ourbusiness.
BT market dominance In the UK we are reliant on BTs network to deliver some We engage with Ofcom to encourage balanced regulation services to our customers in a similar manner to all major and where appropriate we will appeal against decisions telecom operators.
BT is also our largest competitor.
that are perceived to favour the interests of BT.
AsBTis both the main competitor and main supplier to telecommunication operators, the regulator Ofcom must regulate BTs practices to ensure that a fair and competitive environment is maintained.
Any failure of Ofcom to deliver afair market could have a material effect on our results.
Strategic initiatives We have announced strategic initiatives to streamline The change agenda is monitored closely by senior andsimplify the way in which we operate.
In order to management to ensure it is delivering the required deliver this simplified operating model there is inherent improvements and that the various projects remain risk in the transformation as we migrate, re-engineer our ontrack.
Progress is reported to the Board on a processes, cease operating old systems and introduce monthlybasis.
This transformation requires talent and capability as well as the capacity for the business to absorb this degree of change.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 2011 12 11 Key risk Mitigating activity Network infrastructure Our network infrastructure is a critical asset without We have extensive business continuity and disaster itwewould be unable to provide customers with their recovery plans, crisis management and emergency contracted services.
Our network is vulnerable to response teams and insurance cover in place.
interruption and damage from natural disasters, fire, We monitor network faults and ensure that serious service security breaches, terrorist action, human error and impacting incidents are escalated to senior management otherfactors outside of our control.
for customer liaison purposes and are technically resolved Maintaining an uninterrupted and high-quality service over as quickly as possible.
We also strive constantly to improve our network infrastructure is critical to our ability to attract our network and add resilience where issues are identified.
Providing a competitive service level depends partly on our ability to maintain and upgrade our networks in a cost-effective and timely manner.
Failure of part or all of our network or IT infrastructure may result in the loss of customers or we may receive claims from customers based on loss of service, affecting our reputation and results.
IT security The security of our customers data is of high importance.
Data security monitoring measures are in place and Wehave significant volumes of sensitive data passing subject to frequent review to identify any apparent risks through our network.
The need to apply patches to which are then remedied.
software can be important to maintain the integrity ofthesoftwares security regime to protect data from accidental loss or deliberate theft.
Should security measures fail or the software patch upgrades be inadequate and there is a breach that resulted in a loss of data, we would be exposed to significant contract-related and regulatory consequences.
Olympics operational delivery In the build up to the London 2012 Olympic Games and Business continuity management planning, specific to theQueens Diamond Jubilee, the police will be putting thistime period, is underway as well as participation in several new security measures in place.
This means that governmental groups reviewing national infrastructure Cable&Wireless Worldwide will be unable to access certain needs.
areas in London to carry out normal maintenance work.
This could result in a disruption to services.
Contractual delivery As a telecommunication provider in the enterprise and We monitor key aspects of our significant contracts for public sector markets we are dependent upon substantial operational delivery to ensure compliance in order to avoid contracts with large customers.
These contracts may have financial penalties and ensure customer satisfaction.
demanding performance criteria and or high or unlimited liability limits.
Regulatory compliance We are subject to regulation from a number of separate We maintain regular dialogue and monitor the actual and bodies.
Regulatory change is a continuing process.
potential changes to the regulatory framework under which Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy we operate.
Negative impacting matters are responded to affecting our activities and those of our competitors could and appropriate actions taken to lessen the impact upon significantly influence how we operate our business and the business.
introduce new products and services.
Changes could adversely affect our ability to set prices, enter new markets or control our costs.
Over the past three financial years, the Group has received settlement in respect of certain regulatory claims totalling 32 million that are subject to a hearing by the Court of Appeal.
The Directors believe the likelihood of the Court of Appeal overturning the rulings bythe regulator, Ofcom, and the Competition Appeals Tribunal, to be extremely remote.
If the Court of Appeal finds in favour of the plaintiff, the Company may be required to repay some, or all, of amounts received, resulting in a charge to the income statement being recognised at that time of up to 34 million.
Emergency call handling Delivery of effective emergency call handling services is an We monitor delivery of emergency call handling services Ofcom requirement for both our own customers and those and where errors are identified they are investigated and for whom we provide emergency call handling services.
Regular liaison with Ofcom ensures continuous dialogue and awareness of service The risk relates to an inability to direct emergency services delivery.
to the correct address should the caller be unable to identify from where they are calling.
Should a significant error occur, it is possible that this may contribute to a loss oflife that could significantly damage our reputation and result in Ofcom investigations and fines currently set at a maximum level of 10% of turnover.
