How We Manage Risk Managing Business Risks Principal Risks & Uncertainties Managing the risks to our business is essential to the long term success and sustainability of Risk Approach in 2013 the Group.
Following the sale of the Groups majority shareholding in Cairn India and return Lack of near-term drillable frontier There is intense competition for prospective exploration opportunities acreage at prices which can generate of cash to shareholders, the strategy of targeting and realising value from exploration success was reasonable returns.
Frontier exploration investment opportunities were added to the set out in the Business Plan.
In delivering this portfolio during 2012 in Morocco and Malta, strategy, our business activities are subject to a variety of risks specific to the oil and gas and the Company continues to commit significant resources to adding further business and to the countries in which we have activities.
Our competitive edge lies in seeking frontier exploration opportunities in 2013.
The successful farm-in to offshore blocks in out investment opportunities which provide the right balance of political, commercial and Senegal in March 2013 has gone some way to mitigating this risk.
We believe we have a technical and commercial advantage and the experience More information on the status of this risk can be found gained over many years, to manage risks in the next section.
effectively, while putting a high priority on protecting our people and the environment, Lack of exploration success Once the right acreage has been secured, enhancing our reputation and maintaining the challenge is to discover a hydrocarbon our licence to operate.
Exploration success is fundamental to Our robust risk management framework reflects building a sustainable E&P business.
the inherent risks associated with exploration and During 2012, we participated in nine wells development activities and the risk management in the Norway and UK sectors of the North process facilitates the regular assessment and Sea, leading to two discoveries Skarfjell treatment of retained risks.
Our attitude to risk and Carnaby which added significant 2C supports our entrepreneurial and innovative resources.
Further exploration drilling is approach to business and enhances our chances planned in 2013.
This risk is being mitigated of safely engaging in successful business through continuing the rigour of our opportunities and delivering value to shareholders.
evaluations of new exploration investment opportunities.
Principal Risks & Uncertainties More information on the status of this risk can be found As described on page 40, as the Company in the next section.
continues its strategy of targeting and realising value from exploration success, the principal Failure to monetise Cairn India Two further portions of our holding in CIL risks and uncertainties facing the Group at the shareholding at the right price and were sold during 2012, raising US$1.3bn.
end of 2012 are as follows: at the right time The Group retains an 10% shareholding, the value of which at the end of 2012 was US$1.1bn.
Having completed these two transactions, the Company is confident that further sales will be possible.
The performance of the CIL business and our need for reinvestment capital are closely monitored in order to mitigate the risk of monetising the shareholding at the wrong time or price.
More information on the status of this risk can be found in the next section.
Negative stakeholder reactions The Groups operational activities as well as to operations its reputation could be significantly impaired if relationships with stakeholders are not effectively managed.
The Group, therefore, puts a high priority on building and managing these relationships.
During 2012 this risk was mitigated through proactive engagement with investors, regulators, governments and communities where the Group has activities and these will continue in 2013.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information How We Manage Risk Continued Risk Identification Business Risk Management at Cairn & Management Cairns system for identifying and managing risks is embedded in its organisational structure, Overall responsibility for operations and management systems and maintaining sound risk Cairn Energy PLC Board management and internal accords with the risk management guidelines control systems.
and principles set out in ISO 31000 the International Standard for Risk Management.
Board oversight of framework of internal Audit Committee controls of risk Business risks across the Group are addressed management.
in a systematic way through the risk management structure shown to the top right.
Executive and Senior This ensures the Boards assessment of risk is Management consider Risk Management Committee informed by risk factors and mitigating controls risk management issues throughout the business.
originating from and identified by the Groups regional assets, functional departments and Risk management is in-country operations.
The structure also embedded throughout the organisation.
ensures that retained risks do not fall outside Integrated Business Risk Management System, the tolerance levels of the Company Risk including review by the Management Team Appetite Statement.
Cairn has a robust risk management system Detailed risk Regional Asset in place to support risk identification, analysis, assessments and Risks UK and evaluation, treatment and ongoing monitoring controls at project, asset, Corporate Norway, North regional and functional of risks across the Group shown in the and Functional New Venture Risks Atlantic Margin, department levels.
diagram to the bottom right.
Department Risks Mediterranean and North Africa The risks associated with the delivery of the strategy, business plan and annual work programme and the associated mitigation Risk Management System measures and action plans are maintained in a series of risk registers at project, asset and regional levels.
Assessment of the potential risks also plays a key role in the evaluation of each new investment opportunity and all Investment Proposals require a risk register to be included.
The risks and mitigating actions from all of these Establishing sources are consolidated into the Group risk the Context matrix and register which is regularly reviewed Cairn Business Plan Strategy by the Management and Corporate Teams before being presented at the Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Risk management updates are provided at each Audit Committee and Risk Assessment Board meeting.
More details on Cairns approach to risk Board Risk management are provided in the Internal Group Risk Matrix Identification Risk Management Control section of the Corporate Governance Committee Group Risk Register Statement on page 63.
Audit Committee Risk Bowties Risk MT CT Risk Action Plans Analysis Stakeholders Risk Evaluation Risk Treatment 42 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Communication, Reporting and Consultation Monitoring and Review l a n o i t a t u p e R E S H l a i c n a n i F Responding to the Changing Principal Risks to Risk Environment in 2012 the Group in 2012 We operate in a dynamic environment where h The metric used to quantify the potential risk In our 2011 Annual Report & Accounts we the risks associated with internal and external impact has been changed.
Previously we presented the risks which we believed could changes are regularly reviewed to ensure we are used external market valuations and we now adversely impact our business at the time.
able to deliver the Companys business strategy use the Company valuation reports which are During 2012 we regularly reviewed these risks and objectives.
In light of the major changes used to run the business.
This has enabled a and the following table updates these key risks, to the business in 2011, we set out in the 2011 better understanding of the potential impact their potential impacts, the systems that we Annual Report our intent to implement a number of a risk occurring and facilitated a more have in place, the mitigation measures and the of enhancements to our approach to risk informed discussion of priorities and approach progress in 2012.
The list is not exhaustive management during 2012.
The following to mitigating the risks.
or set out in any order of priority and is likely summarises the progress achieved against h Risk bowties have been completed for all to change at any time.
these objectives: the risks rated as significant to the Group.
h To benchmark Cairns approach to risk The Group found this methodology for management, a gap analysis against ISO mapping risks to be very effective in 31000 was completed in May 2012, which understanding risk interdependencies, confirmed close alignment between risk causes and consequences and has helped management in Cairn and the guidelines identify actions to address the risks.
and principles outlined in ISO 31000. h We manage risks on a net basis, that is Opportunities for improving the robustness after taking account of processes and system and effectiveness of the system were also controls in place.
We are also progressing identified and implemented during 2012. work on identifying gross risks, in order to h Following the completion of the Vedanta assess the effectiveness of documented transaction in December 2011 and the return controls in reducing them to net risks.
of cash to shareholders, the Group Risk This process is scheduled to be completed Appetite Statement was updated by the Board in Q2 2013. in July 2012 to ensure it continued to reflect the Companys attitude towards risk.
Uncertainty in scal regimes Monetisation of Oil and gas CIL shareholding price volatility Identifying securing exploration opportunities Lack of exploration success Preventing HSE incidents Staff recruitment and retention Negative Availability and costs stakeholder of rigs and services reactions to operations Reliance on JV Operators Anti-bribery Oil and gas exploration and corruption in the Arctic Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 c i g e t a r t S l a n o i t a s i n a g r O l a n o i t a r e p O Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information How We Manage Risk Continued Strategic Risks Lack of near-term drillable frontier exploration opportunities Impact Mitigation Process There is intense competition for prospective Our Exploration and New Ventures Director, with the support of our technical and commercial acreage at prices which can generate teams, identifies and reviews prospects that have the potential to deliver material growth.
An inability to secure assess a variety of basins, fiscal terms, investment profiles and rig availability and apply strict good prospects may cause a loss of investor screening criteria.
Those that pass these criteria are then put forward for approval.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Annual Business Plan, Investment The corporate acquisitions accessed mature basin exploration opportunities in the North Sea Procedures, Technical Assurance Procedures and frontier exploration opportunities offshore Morocco.
A farm-in was also negotiated for the and Project Delivery Process.
Foum Draa permit offshore Morocco and to supplement this, an active 2013 North Sea exploration and appraisal programme is underway with five wells confirmed during H1 2013.
Planning is also under way for a multi-well, multi-year operated exploration programme beginning offshore Morocco in Q4 2013.
We also acquired interests in eight licences in the recent UK North Sea licence rounds as well as the award of two exploration licences in the Norwegian Continental Shelf APA 2012 Licensing Round.
In December 2012, we entered into an ESA with the Government of Malta, 2 which covers 6,000km.
We also hold permits in the Valencia Basin, offshore Spain, where we are preparing to acquire 3D seismic in the next likely operations window, anticipated winter 2013 14, subject to government approvals.
Evaluation and processing of 3D acquisition in Greenland has progressed and prospects have been identified.
Applications for exploration permits in the Cyprus and Trinidad & Tobago Licensing Rounds were submitted on terms which would have provided a reasonable rate of return to the Group, but were unsuccessful.
Lack of exploration success Impact Mitigation Process Lack of success in our exploration projects The portfolio is regularly reviewed to ensure the high-grading of new areas through exploration will mean limited or no value creation.
licence rounds, farm-ins and other transactions.
We are developing an inventory of prospects and leads which offer opportunities which provide a balance of geological and technical risks.
We have a highly competent team applying a thorough review process of prospects and development opportunities and have a team of geoscientists with a track record of delivering exploration success.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Annual Business Plan, Investment Procedures As a result of the acquisitions, we have developed a balanced portfolio with opportunities and Financial Strategy, Project Delivery through exploration, appraisal and developmental phases.
Nine wells were drilled in Norway Process and Technical Assurance Procedures.
and the UK sectors of the North Sea during 2012 resulting in the Skarfjell and Carnaby discoveries.
44 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Health, Safety and Environmental Risk Health, safety, security and environmental incidents Impact Mitigation Process A major incident in our operations could impact Oversight of our HSE risk management processes is provided by the Board, our Executive staff welfare, contractors, communities or the Team and our Corporate and Management Teams who continue to recognise safety as a environment, leading to loss of reputation, critical concern for the Company.
Our CR Management System, processes and procedures are revenue and or regulatory approvals.
embedded throughout the organisation and all potential health, safety, security, environmental and societal impacts and risks are proactively identified, evaluated and treated during project screening processes.
We have robust internal and independent external assurance and review processes covering the design and operation of producing facilities.
We have a process in place for assessing an Operators operating and HSE capabilities, including undertaking JV audits to determine the level of oversight required.
We maintain and regularly test our emergency organisation procedures and equipment to be able to respond to an emergency quickly, safely and effectively.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 CR Policies and Management System, Drilling There were no injuries or environmental incidents during operated activities in Greenland Management System, Project Delivery Process, and Morocco in 2012.
The HSE Leadership Team, under the Chair of the Managing Director Operating Procedures, HSE Leadership Team, & CFO, Jann Brown, met monthly to review and provide direction on HSE matters, including Emergency Response Plan, Crisis Response Plan monitoring the approach to managing risks and performance and embedding good HSE and Oil Spill Prevention and Contingency Plan.
The HSE Leadership Team also facilitated, with the help of an independent party, workshops to assess the maturity of the HSE culture in Cairn.
The output from the workshops was used to define the HSE Culture Framework.
The Business Principles, CR Management System and Human Rights Procedures were updated in 2012.
Our emergency response facilities and equipment were also updated and tested on a regular basis.
The Company also continues to be an active participant in international industry e. g. OGP and Greenland operators initiatives GOIA aimed at improving the industrys identification and management of HSE risks.
Financial Risk Failure to monetise Cairn India shareholding at the right price and at the right time Impact Mitigation Process Our interest in CIL represents a significant The performance of the CIL business and our need for reinvestment capital are closely proportion of our value and monetisation at monitored in order to mitigate the risk of monetising the shareholding at the wrong time or the right price and the right time is dependent price.
As a significant shareholder, we attend shareholder meetings to monitor performance on the performance of CIL and the liquidity and to understand CILs strategy.
On the macro environment in India, we also receive regular in the Indian capital markets.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Disposal Strategy and Financial Strategy.
During 2012, the Company twice sold down a portion of its holding in CIL and now holds an 10% shareholding, the value of which at the end of 2012 was US$1.1 billion.
Uncertainty in fiscal regimes Impact Mitigation Process Changes in tariffs or taxes can impact the We continue to engage closely with regulators and governments in all jurisdictions where the returns we can generate on our investments.
Our interests are also protected through various legal agreements.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Compliance Registers and Stakeholder During 2012, we actively participated in representative industry associations in countries Management Plans.
where we operate, such as the Greenland Oil Industry Association GOIA and Oil & Gas UK.
We have also sourced external expertise during the evaluation of new investment opportunities in countries where we have not previously operated.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information How We Manage Risk Continued Operational Risk Limited availability of rigs and other services with associated cost pressures Impact Mitigation Process Uncertainties over the availability of rigs We actively monitor and retain good links to the rig market, supplemented by regular market and other drilling services can impact on enquiries.
Our Operations and Supply Chain teams have developed a three year forecasting the business planning, project schedule plan which identifies rig and other services requirements.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Annual Business Plan, Procurement Discussions are under way with rig owners for the provision of rig s to service a multi-well, Procedures and Project Delivery Process.
multi-year drilling programme commencing in Q4 2013.
Reliance on JV operators for asset performance Impact Mitigation Process The Group is in a non-operational role in Post the acquisitions, we have established good working relationships with all our JV partners.
Therefore, key financial We robustly review and monitor technical and operational decision making and we seek to and operational decisions impacting on the influence and support the operator at appropriate times.
performance of the asset are not under our direct control.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 JV Management Procedures and Project We have worked closely with Premier in the Catcher development, EnQuest in the Kraken Delivery Process.
development and Statoil in the Mariner development, including participation in several geological and engineering workshops to agree and set workflows.
New systems to prevent bribery and corruption as yet untested across all our new areas of operations Impact Mitigation Process As our portfolio diversifies and we venture We have a robust Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC Management System in place which into new territories, bribery and corruption systematically addresses bribery and corruption risks.
This is consistently applied throughout risks may increase, which could lead to the organisation in all business activities and throughout the supply chain and new venture due reputational damage and potential litigation.
An e-learning ABC training programme has also been established and will be rolled out in 2013.
As new businesses and staff are added, regular training will be provided and the effectiveness of the ABC Management System will be monitored.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Business Principles, ABC Management An internal audit of our approach to ABC was completed in April 2012.
The findings from this System, Investment Procedures, Business audit demonstrated that the approach was robust, with only minor recommendations made Partner Due Diligence Procedure and Supply which have been implemented.
The main elements of the ABC Management System were Chain Procedure.
also updated during 2012, including the Business Partner Due Diligence Process and Register, Business Principles, the Whistle Blowing Policy and the Gifts and Hospitality Register.
46 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Organisational Risk Staff recruitment and retention Impact Mitigation Process Inability to recruit and retain staff with the Heads of Functions and Regional Directors agree resource requirements as part of the annual correct skills and experience could result in work programme and budget processes and these are kept under review throughout the year.
disruption to the ambitions of the business.
We offer a competitive package of benefits, with plenty of support for a healthy work-life balance.
As an accredited Investor in People, we support continuous professional development through technical, professional, management and behavioural skills courses as well as mentoring and educational assistance schemes.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Annual Business Plan, Annual Work Total headcount increased by 21.5% through new recruits and the two corporate acquisitions Programme and Budgeting Processes and staff turnover for the year was also low 3.4%.
We undertook a review of our technical and Succession Plan Framework.
preferred supplier list to identify and recruit new talent for both staff and contractor positions.
Every employee in the Company had an average of 5.5 days training in the year.
Reputational Risk Negative stakeholder reactions to operations Impact Mitigation Process Managing our stakeholders is critical to our We have established corporate and asset level stakeholder management and communications business activities.
Ineffective management plans and we proactively engage with key stakeholders at all levels to build strong relationships.
could lead to a loss of investor confidence We monitor steps being taken by regulators and industry through our participation in industry and, in the extreme, the loss of our licence bodies such as Oil & Gas UK.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Media, Analyst and Investor Contact We are actively building government relationships in all areas where we operate, including Procedures, Business Principles, Group Public Morocco, Greenland, Spain, UK, Norway and Malta.
PCDPs were developed and implemented Consultation and Disclosure Plan Framework during 2012 for activities in Spain and Greenland.
A programme of stakeholder engagement and Stakeholder Engagement Procedure and with communities in north west Greenland was conducted in Q3 2012, in order to provide Guidance and Corporate Responsibility information into the SIA that will be conducted prior to drilling activities in the Pitu block.
Preparation of a PCDP to cover our activities in Morocco also commenced at the end of 2012.
Increased discussions regarding the future of oil and gas exploration in the Arctic Impact Mitigation Process The unique social, political and environmental We have established an active engagement programme with a variety of stakeholders factors in this area combine to focus in key areas, including politicians, other operators, environmental experts and journalists.
stakeholder attention and pressure on participants in the region including the oil industry, governments, communities, media and NGOs.
Policies and Systems Progress in 2012 Corporate Responsibility Management PCDPs were developed and implemented during 2012 for activities in Greenland.
System, Business Principles, Group Public A programme of stakeholder engagement with communities in north west Greenland was Consultation and Disclosure Plan Framework conducted in Q3 2012 in order to provide information into the SIA that will be conducted prior and Stakeholder Engagement Procedure to drilling activities in the Pitu block.
We also provided evidence and appeared as a witness and Guidance.
before the UK Parliamentary Environmental Audit Committee enquiry into the Arctic.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
