risk and Capital ManaGeMenT this investment has been led by the Board and Old Mutual has invested senior management, driven by a desire to support sound business decisions and attribute capital according to an accurate assessment of the significantly in enhancing economic risks involved.
despite the delays in regulatory reforms under solvency ii, south africa its risk and capital is progressing with their equivalent development which is due to come into effect in January 2015. management over We believe that this early investment is timely and positions the Group well to comply with the new regulatory requirements as they arise.
We are the past four years.
already sufficiently capitalised on an economic capital basis to comply with the new requirements as currently drafted.
We began the year with an established risk and governance framework set out in the Group Operating Model, economic capital tools developed through at least two full iterations, and transparent processes for managing, monitoring and controlling risks.
During 2012 we merged these new tools and processes into business-as-usual operations and embedded them more deeply into the underlying businesses.
We will continue to refine structures and processes, but the overall governance structures are stable and provide opportunities to obtain more detailed management information as required.
Risk frameworks, governance and the Groups internal capital model are overseen centrally but implemented by our businesses locally so that local requirements can be addressed appropriately.
This is reinforced through senior Group executive representation on business unit regulatory boards coupled with formal dual reporting for all key control functions.
In 2012 we revisited the risk strategy set in 2010, and now separately consider each of the regions in which we operate.
This has confirmed that each region is sufficiently capitalised in its own right and that the distribution and allocation of capital to the relevant businesses in each region largely reflect the different risk profiles within those regions.
This has also supported the decision and successful execution of our debt repayment programme.
Even when applying significant economic stresses to our current capital, the Group remains sufficiently capitalised.
We have also identified management actions that could be taken to remedy the Groups capital or liquidity position in a severe shock event where capital or liquidity levels significantly breach our risk appetite limits for a sustained period.
In future we will be seeking to make use of diversification within these different regions in line with the Groups overall strategy.
The sale of the Nordic business in Q1 2012 did not change our overall risk profile significantly, as Nordic had very similar risks to the other European business.
Broadly speaking, the risk strategy set in 2010 indicated a preference to reduce non-banking credit risk subsequently achieved through the 2011 sale of US Life and to increase liability risk.
While the overall strategy to increase liability risk but contain credit risk continues to make sense, evidential experience has shown that this will be difficult to achieve by organically growing pure risk products alone.
74 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our risks How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business In 2013 risk management activity will build on the investment The Groups overall risk profile, reflected by made in the past, while supporting the following objectives: our economic capital results, is stable and Ensure that risk measures are embedded and influences the behaviours of our staff and management through our indicates that the Group is comfortably employee performance management process Focus on our customers needs and requirements, and within appetite on all capital measures, review our product set to ensure that our products remain despite the weakened global recovery.
appropriate for our customers Further embed the use of relevant tools and skills to The outlook for earnings remains volatile.
The most significant support us in taking on risk through new product offerings external risks to earnings relate to the concentration of and entry into new territories, thus supporting our businesses in South Africa and the translation of earnings expansion into Africa and further diversification of our from rand to sterling.
The level of the rand is very susceptible business in Old Mutual Emerging Markets to changes in the level of foreign investment in South African Improve expense management and control throughout government debt.
This remains high as the prolonged period Old Mutual Wealth as the business implements its new of low growth in the US and Europe drives foreign investors operating model, including moving to an efficient cost to seek yield elsewhere.
Any reversal of these flows could base for the heritage books potentially trigger rapid decline in the rand, reducing our Take on more liability risk in our Old Mutual Wealth sterling earnings.
Having modeled scenarios involving business as appropriate.
a severe rand drop, we are comfortable that the Group has sufficient capital and liquidity headroom to withstand The following pages give more details of our risk preferences such events.
and current risk profile, with an overview of our current topical risks.
As the Groups businesses position themselves for growth over the next few years, we recognise that this could increase short-term operational risk particularly in Old Mutual sue kean Wealth, where the pace and level of change are greatest.
Group Chief risk Officer Generally, at business unit level the increase in exposures is driven primarily by structural changes and cost control measures offset by continuing expected improvements to the control environment.
Our relative exposure to operational risk is expected to reduce over the planning period, although in absolute terms it will remain stable due to business growth.
Exposure to credit risk has increased slightly, reflecting growth in Nedbank and Old Mutual Finance, but remains within appetite limits.
In the current environment, our South African business remains exposed, from an earnings perspective, to interest rate risk.
The Group remains underweight compared to its risk strategy goal of increasing liability risk, and business plans include a number of actions to increase this exposure while meeting our risk and return requirements.
Old Mutual Bermuda OMB, has significantly reduced market risk exposures including volatility risk, due to the hedging programme introduced in March 2012 and favourable surrender experience this year.
This has greatly benefited the overall Group capital position.
Our strategic emphasis on customer focus and continuing senior-level engagement with regulatory policymakers position us well to address changes such as the UKs Retail Distribution Review and twin peaks regulation in the UK and SA.
75 risk and Capital ManaGeMenT continued schedule.
During 2012 we revised our FGD target metric Managing our economic risks to a coverage ratio, rather than an absolute amount, using We continue to manage our business and monitor solvency stress and scenario testing techniques from our economic internally on an economic capital basis, which expresses capital framework.
The coverage ratio at December 2012 solvency at a 99.93% confidence level ie covering a seven is comfortably above our new target for more information on in 10,000 years event.
We are comfortably solvent on this the Financial Groups Directive results see page 69.
1 basis with a current solvency ratio in excess of 160%, and thus well positioned for the transition to Solvency II and the Our risk appetite framework has evolved significantly over Solvency Assessment and Management regime SAM in the past few years and the Groups internal capital model South Africa.
The economic capital basis represents our supports the setting of our integrated risk business strategy.
internal view of our business and is more representative of We have enhanced the methodology, notably in the way risk the underlying risks.
It allows for diversification both between appetite limits are set and agreed with each business unit.
In different risks within entities and across sectors and territories.
particular, we have made limit-setting an iterative part of the business planning process to support the setting of local risk Old Mutual currently assesses and reports regulatory capital limits that reflect local business plans rather than being set in adequacy under the EUs Financial Groups Directive FGD.
As part of this process we set risk Our planned transition to managing regulatory capital limits by risk type at both Group and business unit level.
adequacy on a Solvency II basis has been deferred in line with the delay to the implementation of the Solvency II We are comfortably solvent on an economic capital basis with a current solvency ratio in excess 1 of 160%.
Periodically through the year business units calculate their risk exposures against the appetite set by the Group.
The table below summarises the four quantitative measures we use to express our risk appetite limits and exposures: risk appetite limits Metric Explanation Group limit definition Economic capital at risk ECaR The reduction in post-tax economic value broadly Available financial resources should not fall below defined as a market value balance sheet basis for 100% of internal ECaR.
life companies and IFRS equity for non-life companies over a one-year forward-looking time horizon that should only be exceeded seven times in 10,000 years 99.93% confidence level.
ECaR helps us to optimise risk-based decisions.
The stress tests underlying ECaR allow us to monitor our exposures and deepen our understanding of where the business could further improve its capital allocation.
ECaR is similar to the solvency capital requirement measure in Solvency II and has been calculated and used within the Group for more than five years.
Earnings at risk EaR The reduction in pre-tax IFRS adjusted operating EaR as a percentage of pre-tax AOP should not profit AOP over a one-year forward-looking time rise above 70%.
horizon that should only be exceeded once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
Cash flow at risk CFaR The reduction in the cash portion of earnings over The cash proportion of earnings should not fall by a one-year forward-looking time horizon that over 500 million more than once in 10 years.
should only be exceeded once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
Operational risk OpRisk The reduction in pre-tax economic value due to OpRisk as a percentage of pre-tax AOP should one in 10 year unexpected operational loss events not rise above 10% of planned earnings over the 90% confidence level.
1 Estimated, unaudited figure 76 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our risks How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business In addition to quantitative risk appetite limits, we also use risk is determined before allowing for the impact of qualitative risk appetite principles and statements to guide diversification between risks.
We are moving towards a our business units and help to improve the clarity of our risk three regions structure for our risk strategy and target risk strategy in line with the Groups risk appetite.
The pie charts below set out our current risk Group risk metrics showed a lower level of risk exposure profile by region with the size of the pies providing an and Old Mutual is comfortably within appetite on all capital indication of the relative significance in capital terms of each measures and earnings volatility.
The reduction in risk region, and show that we are well diversified at a regional exposure results mainly from steps taken to fide-risk level.
Each region is sufficiently capitalised and does not rely Bermuda and from favourable capital market performance.
on diversification between regions for solvency purposes.
Group currency risk and Nedbanks credit and counterparty For Old Mutual Wealth, market risk policyholder consists of risk remain the top two quantitative contributors to economic the impact of changes in fund-related management capital at risk.
As discussed below, the most significant risk to fees earned from client portfolios as a consequence of sterling earnings is the concentration of source earnings in movements in asset markets.
The classification of this risk rand in South Africa.
is consistent across our life businesses, whereas for our asset management businesses this risk exposure is currently Risk profile of the Old Mutual Group classified as business risk.
by region The risk profiles for the Old Mutual Wealth region, and Our Group risk strategy distinguishes between risk and return the Emerging Markets, Nedbank, and Mutual & Federal preferences.
The Groups risk preferences outline our position region have remained stable over the period.
The relative on different risk types, identifying the risks that we actively exposure to market risk policyholder in USAM and OMB seek, avoid or view neutrally.
The return preferences are has reduced significantly due to the fide-risking exercise in driven by the probability and size of the returns.
This resulted in an increase in the relative contribution The risk profile of the Group is based on stand-alone of USAM to the overall risk profile, as well as an increase in economic capital at risk, ie the relative contribution of each the relative contributions of both operational and business risk.
USAM and OMB 6% OMW 27% Emerging Markets, Nedbank and M&F 67% 6% 3% 23% 7% 11% 16% 26% 38% 5% 6% 32% 7% 24% 6% 15% 46% Market policyholder Market shareholder Credit and counterparty Business 29% Liability Operational Note that Emerging Markets includes our exposure to South America & Asia.
Currency 77 risk and Capital ManaGeMenT continued The Groups current overall risk profile is set out below.
This Our Group risk profile changed over 2012 due to favourable allows for additional risks at Group level not included in the lapse experience and the implementation of management pie charts, most notably currency translation risk due to our actions in Bermuda decreasing our market risk policyholder, significant rand exposure.
The expected return relative to and a reallocation between market risk policyholder and target was developed as part of our 2010-2012 business and currency risk.
risk strategy setting, and reflects the risk-adjusted expected We will continue to enhance our economic capital and stress return.
We will be reviewing the risk-adjusted expected return and scenario testing framework, and further embed these during 2013. within our business during 2013.
Expected return relative risk Category risk preference 2010 profile 2011 profile 2012 profile to target Market policyholder For 26% 27% 17% Excellent Credit and counterparty Against 22% 13% 11% Neutral Business Neutral 24% 25% 29% Good Market shareholder Against 4% 6% 4% Poor Liability Strongly for 8% 13% 15% Excellent Operational Strongly against 12% 11% 9% Very poor Currency NA 4% 5% 15% NA Unless taken in the form of well governed and managed banking-related credit risk Assumes risk is correctly priced No risk preference is set for currency as this risk is essentially a balance sheet translation risk of our SA business from rand into sterling 78 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our risks How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business The Groups current topical risks The table below summarises the Groups top five topical risks, which are currently at the top of our agenda.
These risks are closely monitored and overseen by Group, which gives regular updates to the Board and Executive Risk Committees.
Our business is also impacted by a number of inherent risks, such as the exposure to market levels which drives a significant proportion of our capital requirement.
Although market risk policyholder is material, a large portion is from the inherent risk within our product offering, as we are exposed to the impact of market movements on asset-based fees generated from client-selected investments.
For further information on our inherent and significant risks, please refer to our website www.
risk description 2012 and beyond risk mitigation and management action 1.
C urrency translation risk and During 2012, South African Government debt While future dividend flow from subsidiaries is sa market risk was downgraded and the rand depreciated still heavily impacted by rand risk, this is partly The bulk of the Groups capital is held in significantly and is expected to remain volatile.
mitigated by the proposed policy of linking South Africa to match the risks faced by dividends to earnings.
Bond yields reduced during the year, increasing the business there.
In addition, a significant the value of certain liabilities in the South African In addition, the Group uses currency hedging portion of our earnings comes from our business.
In addition, Old Mutual Emerging to partially mitigate the risk of a depreciation South African businesses.
Markets IFRS earnings are sensitive to further in the value of rand receipts from the Earnings and surplus capital are directly falls in bond yields.
impacted by a depreciation in the rand.
Despite this, a positive climate for doing business Partial hedging was implemented during 2012 In addition to this, earnings from our South African remains in South Africa.
The economic and to protect against further interest rate reductions.
business are exposed to market movements in the demographic trends provide a strong case for South African market.
investment and the country has a high level of fiscal discipline, with a strong banking sector which is well capitalised.
2. Credit risk across the Group Our credit risk remains stable.
However, We are currently enhancing the credit risk limit One of our largest single quantifiable risks to there has been an increase in our unsecured framework to enable greater granularity and the Group is our exposure to banking credit risk loan books in both Nedbank and OMF in a consistency of limits across the Group.
We are through our exposure to Nedbank.
market with weakened credit characteristics closely managing credit loss ratios, though amongst consumers.
these are broadly within target range and Despite tight controls and processes, profits have improved in the retail area.
remain sensitive to relatively small movements If low economic growth persists in South Africa, in the credit loss ratios.
this may have an impact on impairment levels.
Nedbank and OMF apply cautious However this risk would be mitigated to some underwriting criteria compared to some of Our exposure to Nedbank is primarily contagion extent if lower interest rates persist.
their competitors, to the extent of constraining risk to earnings, as Nedbanks capital and growth vis--vis peers.
liquidity requirements are both met from its own resources.
There is also credit risk within the South African Life business through: Our unsecured lending joint venture, called Old Mutual Finance OMF Old Mutual Specialised Finance OMSFIN The South African Life business, predominantly through the management of assets backing annuity products A building society in Zimbabwe, although the exposure is very small.
79 risk and Capital ManaGeMenT continued risk description 2012 and beyond risk mitigation and management action 3.
Old Mutual Wealth execution risk The level of operational risk within Old Mutual The business plan seeks to transform Old Mutual The key risk here is one of execution due to the Wealth is increasing in the short term, reflecting Wealth into a simpler, unified business with volume and complexity of change rather than significant changes to the operating model and updated IT systems.
The strategy, focusing mainly funding or capital constraints.
staffing changes resulting in reduced continuity.
on the UK and International markets, is to take on We are increasing our focus on the control more fund management and product risk to environment and prompt escalation during this increase margins.
period in order to mitigate the risk.
There has been significant investment in IT and While this is contrary to the Groups stated change governance over the past year.
More strategy of reducing overall operational risk, recently we have changed the operating model we have made an explicit exception as the to place more execution responsibility at the Old operational risk increase is temporary and is Mutual Wealth business level, with ongoing necessary to address a larger strategic risk to oversight at Group level.
the sustainability of the Old Mutual Wealth business model.
Expansion in africa The level of investment in new territories is still We perform due diligence and careful We are looking to expand our business further relatively small: while nominally more capital has groundwork before entering new territories into the African continent.
This could potentially been allocated to these territories, from an to ensure we fully understand the risk that we increase execution, reputational, legal and economic capital perspective they are not yet are taking on.
Where possible we consider people risk.
The approach has partnering with local businesses rather than been cautious, and volumes of business are low.
Where we have existing operations, we monitor new business levels and required capital for these businesses in order to identify higher than expected growth.
Old Mutual Bermuda At the start of 2012, the exposures in relation to The exposure to Old Mutual Bermuda has The residual risk relating to the Bermuda business Bermuda were our largest single risk to capital substantially reduced and the residual exposure remains.
However, we have reduced the and the only material area which was outside is now within risk appetite.
Although this is no exposure through reducing the equity volatility in risk appetite.
In March 2012 we put in place an longer the largest single risk to the Group, the business.
option-based hedging programme to mitigate we continue to monitor the market exposure the market risk for the five-year top-ups.
In addition, significantly more policies than expected have been surrendered at or shortly after the five-year point.
80 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How we govern our business H ow we govern our business I n this section, we look at who is on the B oard and explain how we address governance matters How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business Contents Board of Directors 82 Relations with shareholders and analysts 94 Introduction to the Directors Report by the Chairman 84 AGMs 95 Approach to governance 85 Directors indemnities 96 How the Board operates 86 Miscellaneous Directors Report matters 96 Directors share interests 88 Going concern 97 Directors conflicts of interest 89 Disclosure of information to the Board Committees 89 auditors and governing law 98 Attendance record 92 Remuneration Report 99 Auditors 93 Control environment and Group Internal Audit 93
