The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
The Groups system of risk management, which includes risk review and an active internal audit function, is monitored by the Audit and Compliance Committee as described in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report on pages 40 to 44.
The principal risks to which the Group is exposed include the following: Economic environment A further deterioration in the general economy may adversely affect all aspects of the Groups business.
Adverse economic conditions might increase the number of borrowers that default on their loans or adversely affect funding structures, which may in turn increase the Groups costs and could result in losses on some of the Groups assets, or restrict the ability of the Group to develop in the future.
The general economic factors affecting the Group in the period going forward, together with the steps taken by the Groups management to address these issues are described in more detail in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 6 and the Chief Executives review on pages 7 to 11.
Changes in interest rates may adversely affect the Groups net income and pro tability.
The steps taken by the Group to mitigate against the long term effects of interest rate movements, through the structuring of its products and the use of hedging procedures are described in note 6 to the accounts.
Credit risk As a primary lender the Group faces credit risk as an inherent component of its lending and asset purchase activities.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups borrowers, a general deterioration in UK economic conditions or adverse changes arising from systematic risks in UK and global financial systems could reduce the recoverability and value of the Groups assets.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the systems in place to mitigate that risk on both originated and purchased assets are described in the section of note 6 to the accounts entitled Credit Risk.
Operational risk The activities of the Group subject it to operational risks relating to its ability to implement and maintain effective systems to process the high volume of transactions with customers.
A signi cant breakdown of the IT systems of the Group might adversely impact the ability of the Group to operate its business effectively.
To address these risks, the Groups internal audit function carries out targeted reviews of critical systems to ensure that they remain adequate for their purpose.
The Group has a business continuity plan, which is kept under regular review and is designed to ensure that any breakdown in systems would not cause signi cant disruption to the business.
Principal risks and uncertainties 45 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Competitor risk The Group faces strong competition in all of the core markets in which it operates.
There is a danger that its pro tability and or market share may be impaired.
To mitigate this risk the Group maintains relationships with its customers, business introducers and other signi cant participants in the markets in which it is active, as well as being active in industry-wide organisations and initiatives.
This enables market trends to be identi ed and addressed within the relevant business strategy.
Governmental, legislative and regulatory risk The market sectors to which the Group supplies products, and the capital markets from which it obtains much of its funding, have been subject to intervention by United Kingdom Government, European Union and other regulatory bodies.
Current regulatory developments are discussed in the section of the Chief Executives Review headed Regulation on page 10.
To the extent that such actions disadvantage the Group, when compared to other market participants, they present a risk to the Group.
In order to mitigate this risk the Group has been active in explaining its position to the authorities in order that it is not inadvertently disadvantaged.
Management The success of the Group is dependent on recruiting and retaining skilled senior management and personnel.
The Groups employment policies, which are designed to ensure that an appropriately skilled workforce is, and remains, in place are described within the Corporate Social Responsibility section of this Annual Report on pages 18 and 19.
Working capital The Groups capital position and its policies in respect of capital management are described in note 5 to the accounts.
These policies and their application are described more fully in the section of the Chairmans Statement headed Capital Management on pages 4 and 5.
Financial risk The Groups exposure to other financial risks, including liquidity risk and foreign currency risk, and the procedures in place to mitigate those risks are described in detail in note 6 to the accounts.
