386 Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk factors A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials operating Global financial markets have experienced, and continue to results and financial condition and, accordingly, the trading price experience, signi cant uncertainty brought on, in particular, of its shares.
The risk factors mentioned below should not be by concerns over European and US sovereign debt, as well as regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all concerns about a general slowing of global demand re ecting an potential risks and uncertainties.
The information given is as increasing lack of con dence among consumers, companies and of the date of this document, is not updated, and any forwardgovernments.
Upheavals in the financial markets may affect looking statements are made subject to the reservations speci ed general levels of economic activity, employment and customer below under Forward-looking statements.
For example, insurers may experience an elevated incidence of claims, lapses, or surrenders of policies, and some Prudentials approaches to managing risks are explained in the policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance Business review section under Risk and capital management.
The demand for insurance products may also be adversely affected.
If sustained, this environment is likely to have Risks relating to Prudentials business a negative impact on the insurance sector over time and may Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to consequently have a negative impact on Prudentials business market fl uctuations and general economic conditions and pro tability.
New challenges related to market uctuations Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market and general economic conditions may continue to emerge.
uctuations and general economic conditions.
Uncertainty or negative trends in international economic and investment For some non-unit-linked investment products, in particular climates could adversely affect Prudentials business and those written in some of the Groups Asia operations, it may not pro tability.
Since 2008, Prudential has had to operate against be possible to hold assets which will provide cash ows to match a challenging background of periods of signi cant volatility in exactly those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly global capital and equity markets, interest rates and liquidity, and true in those countries where bond markets are not developed widespread economic uncertainty.
Government interest rates and in certain markets where regulated surrender values are have also fallen to historic lows in the US and UK and some set with reference to the interest rate environment prevailing Asia countries in which Prudential operates.
These factors have, at the time of policy issue.
This results in a mismatch due to the at times during this period, had a material adverse effect on duration and uncertainty of the liability cash ows and the lack Prudentials business and pro tability.
of suf cient assets of a suitable duration.
While this residual asset liability mismatch risk can be managed, it cannot be In the future, the adverse effects of such factors would be felt eliminated.
Where interest rates in these markets remain lower principally through the following items: than interest rates used to calculate surrender values over A A A A A A A A A A A A A investment impairments or reduced investment returns, a sustained period, this could have an adverse impact on which could impair Prudentials ability to write signi cant Prudentials reported pro t. volumes of new business and would have a negative impact In the US, uctuations in prevailing interest rates can affect on its assets under management and pro t: results from Jackson, which has a signi cant spread-based A A A A A A A A A A A A A higher credit defaults and wider credit and liquidity spreads business, with the majority of its assets invested in xed income resulting in realised and unrealised credit losses: securities.
In particular, xed annuities and stable value products written by Jackson expose Prudential to the risk that changes in A A A A A A A A A A A A A Prudential in the normal course of business enters into interest rates, which are not fully re ected in the interest rates a variety of transactions with counterparties, including credited to customers, will reduce spread.
The spread is the derivative transactions.
Failure of any of these counterparties difference between the rate of return Jackson is able to earn on to discharge their obligations, or where adequate collateral the assets backing the policyholders liabilities and the amounts is not in place, could have an adverse impact on Prudentials that are credited to policyholders in the form of bene t increases, results: and subject to minimum crediting rates.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A estimates of the value of financial instruments being dif cult Declines in spread from these products or other spread because in certain illiquid or closed markets, determining the businesses that Jackson conducts could have a material impact value at which financial instruments can be realised is highly on its businesses or results of operations.
Processes to ascertain value and estimates of a signi cant amount of variable annuities that offer capital value require substantial elements of judgment, assumptions or income protection guarantees.
There could be market and estimates which may change over time.
Increased circumstances where the derivatives that it enters into to illiquidity also adds to uncertainty over the accessibility hedge its market risks may not fully offset its losses, and any of financial resources and may reduce capital resources cost of the guarantees that remain unhedged will also affect as valuations decline.
A signi cant part of the pro t from Prudentials UK insurance operations is related to bonuses for policyholders declared on with-pro ts products, which are broadly based on historical and current rates of return on equity, real estate and xed income securities, as well as Prudentials expectations of future investment returns.
This pro t could be lower in a sustained low interest rate environment.
Risk factors Additional information Risk factors Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 387 Prudential is subject to the risk of potential Prudential conducts its businesses subject to regulation and associated regulatory risks, including sovereign debt credit deterioration owing to the amounts of sovereign debt obligations held in its the eff ects of changes in the laws, regulations, policies and interpretations and any accounting standards in investment portfolio Prudential is subject to the risk of potential sovereign debt credit the markets in which it operates Changes in government policy, legislation including tax or deterioration on the amounts of sovereign debt obligations, principally for UK, other European, US and Asia countries held regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the financial services and insurance industries in any of the markets in which in its investment portfolio.
In recent years, rating agencies have downgraded the sovereign debt of some Continental European Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudentials countries, the UK and the US.
There is a risk of further downgrades for these countries.
In addition, for some European product range, distribution channels, pro tability, capital requirements and, consequently, reported results and nancing countries the risk of default has also increased.
Investing in such instruments creates exposure to the direct or indirect requirements.
Also, regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential operates may change the level of capital required to be held by consequences of political, social or economic changes including changes in governments, heads of states or monarchs in the individual businesses or could introduce possible changes in the regulatory framework for pension arrangements and policies, countries in which the issuers are located and the creditworthiness of the sovereign.
Investment in sovereign debt the regulation of selling practices and solvency requirements.
Furthermore, as a result of the recent interventions by obligations involves risks not present in debt obligations of corporate issuers.
In addition, the issuer of the debt or the governments in response to global economic conditions, it is widely expected that there will be a substantial increase in governmental authorities that control the repayment of the debt may be unable or unwilling to repay principal or pay interest when government regulation and supervision of the financial services industry, including the possibility of higher capital requirements, due in accordance with the terms of such debt, and Prudential may have limited recourse to compel payment in the event of a restrictions on certain types of transaction structure and enhanced supervisory powers.
A sovereign debtors willingness or ability to repay principal and to pay interest in a timely manner may be affected Current EU directives, including the EU Insurance Groups by, among other factors, its cash ow situation, its relations with Directive IGD require European financial services groups to its central bank, the extent of its foreign currency reserves, the demonstrate net aggregate surplus capital in excess of solvency availability of suf cient foreign exchange on the date a payment requirements at the group level in respect of shareholder-owned is due, the relative size of the debt service burden to the economy entities.
The test is a continuous requirement, so that Prudential as a whole, the sovereign debtors policy toward local and needs to maintain a higher amount of regulatory capital at the international lenders, and the political constraints to which group level than otherwise necessary in respect of some of its the sovereign debtor may be subject.
Periods of economic individual businesses to accommodate, for example, short-term uncertainty may affect the volatility of market prices of sovereign movements in global foreign exchange rates, interest rates, debt to a greater extent than the volatility inherent in debt deterioration in credit quality and equity markets.
The EU is also obligations of other types of issuers.
If a sovereign were to default developing a regulatory framework for insurance companies, on its obligations, this could have a material adverse effect referred to as Solvency II.
The approach is based on the concept on Prudentials financial condition and results of operations.
Pillar 1 consists of the quantitative requirements, for example, the amount of capital an insurer should hold.
Pillar 2 Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate sets out requirements for the governance and risk management fl uctuations owing to the geographical diversity of insurers, as well as for the effective supervision of insurers.
of its businesses Pillar 3 focuses on disclosure and transparency requirements.
Due to their geographical diversity, Prudentials businesses are subject to the risk of exchange rate uctuations.
Prudentials operations in the US and Asia, which represent a signi cant proportion of operating pro t based on longer-term investment returns and shareholders funds, generally write policies and invest in assets denominated in local currency.
Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate uctuations on local operating results, it can lead to signi cant uctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements upon translation of results into pounds sterling.
The currency exposure relating to the translation of reported earnings is not currently separately managed.
The impact of gains or losses on currency translations is recorded as a component of shareholders funds within other comprehensive income.
Consequently, this could impact on Prudentials gearing ratios fide ned as debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
388 Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk factors continued The Solvency II Directive covers valuations, the treatment of As part of a global initiative to identify G-SIFIs, in May 2012, insurance groups, the fide nition of capital and the overall level the IAIS published proposed assessment methodology for of capital requirements.
A key aspect of Solvency II is that the designating Globally Systemically Important Insurers G-SIIs.
assessment of risks and capital requirements are intended to be For those groups that are designated by the FSB as G-SII, aligned more closely with economic capital methodologies, and additional policy measures including enhanced supervision may allow Prudential to make use of its internal economic capital and higher loss absorbency requirements could be proposed.
models, if approved by the Financial Services Authority FSA or Further detail of the proposals is expected during 2013 and other relevant supervisory authority.
The Solvency II Directive implementation is likely to be over a period of years.
was formally approved by the Economic and Financial Affairs Furthermore, the FSA is considering the designation of a Council in November 2009.
Representatives from the European Domestically Systemically Important Insurer D-SII for those Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of the UK insurers that are signi cant in UK terms.
It is not yet clear European Union are currently discussing the Omnibus II Directive what the impact of this designation may be.
which, once approved, will amend certain aspects of the original ComFrame is also being developed by the IAIS to provide Solvency II Directive.
In addition, the European Commission is common global requirements for the supervision of insurance continuing to develop the detailed rules that will complement the groups.
The framework is designed to develop common high-level principles of the Directive, referred to as implementing principles for supervision and so may increase the focus of measures.
The Omnibus II Directive is not currently scheduled regulators in some jurisdictions.
It is also possible that some to be nalised until late 2013, while the implementing measures prescriptive requirements, including regarding group capital, cannot be nalised until after Omnibus II.
There is a signi cant could be proposed.
Further clarity on ComFrame is expected uncertainty regarding the final outcome of this process.
In during the second half of 2013. particular, the Solvency II rules relating to the determination of the liability discount rate and to the treatment of the US business Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have created remain unclear.
As a result there is a risk that the effect of the investor compensation schemes that require mandatory measures nally adopted could be adverse for Prudential, contributions from market participants in some instances in the including potentially a signi cant increase in capital required to event of a failure of a market participant.
As a major participant support its business and that Prudential may be placed at a in the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise competitive disadvantage to other European and non-European where Prudential, along with other companies, may be required financial services groups.
Currently there are also a number of other prospective global The Groups accounts are prepared in accordance with current regulatory developments which could impact the way in which International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS applicable to Prudential is supervised in its many jurisdictions.
These include the insurance industry.
The International Accounting Standards the Dodd-Frank Act in the US, the work of the Financial Stability Board IASB introduced a framework that it described as Phase I, Board FSB on Globally Systemically Important Financial which permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis Institutions G-SIFIs and the Common Framework for the of accounting for insurance assets and liabilities that existed in Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups their jurisdictions prior to January 2005.
In July 2010, the IASB ComFrame being developed by the International Association published an Exposure Draft for its Phase II on insurance of Insurance Supervisors IAIS.
accounting, which would introduce signi cant changes to the statutory reporting of insurance entities that prepare accounts The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the according to IFRS.
The IASB continues its deliberation on the financial services industry within the United States that, among exposure draft principles but it remains uncertain whether the other reforms to financial services entities, products and markets, proposals in the Exposure Draft will become the final IASB may subject financial institutions designated as systematically standard.
The timing of the changes taking effect is uncertain important to heightened prudential and other requirements but not expected to be before 2017. intended to prevent or mitigate the impact of future disruptions in the US financial system.
The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act Any changes or modi cation of IFRS accounting policies may on Prudentials businesses is not currently clear, as many of its require a change in the future results or a restatement of reported provisions have a delayed effectiveness and or require results.
rulemaking or other actions by various US regulators over the coming years.
Risk factors Additional information Risk factors Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 389 The resolution of several issues aff ecting the fi financial Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly services industry could have a negative impact on competitive environments with developing Prudentials reported results or on its relations with demographic trends and continued profi tability current and potential customers depends on managements ability to respond to Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and these pressures and trends regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both in The markets for financial services in the UK, US and Asia are the UK and internationally.
These actions could involve a review highly competitive, with several factors affecting Prudentials ability to sell its products and continued pro tability, including of business sold in the past under acceptable market practices at the time, such as the requirement in the UK to provide redress to price and yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and product quality, brand strength and name certain past purchasers of pension and mortgage endowment policies, changes to the tax regime affecting products and recognition, investment management performance, historical bonus levels, developing demographic trends and customer regulatory reviews on products sold and industry practices, including, in the latter case, businesses it has closed.
appetite for certain savings products.
In some of its markets, Prudential faces competitors that are larger, have greater financial Regulators are increasingly interested in the approach that resources or a greater market share, offer a broader range of product providers use to select third party distributors and to products or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios.
monitor the appropriateness of sales made by them.
In some Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled cases, product providers can be held responsible for the employees and agents with local experience, particularly in Asia, fide ciencies of third-party distributors.
may limit Prudentials potential to grow its business as quickly as planned.
In the US, federal and state regulators have focused on, and continue to devote substantial attention to, the mutual fund, In Asia, the Groups principal competitors in the region are xed index annuity and insurance product industries.
This international financial companies, including Allianz, AXA, ING, focus includes new regulations in respect of the suitability of AIA and Manulife.
In a number of markets, local companies have sales of certain products.
As a result of publicity relating to a very signi cant market presence.
widespread perceptions of industry abuses, there have been Within the UK, Prudentials principal competitors in the life numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.
market include many of the major retail financial services companies including, in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing at different speeds, Lloyds Banking Group and Standard Life.
driven by a combination of global factors and local considerations.
There is a risk that new requirements are Jacksons competitors in the US include major stock and mutual introduced that challenge current practices, or are insurance companies, mutual fund organisations, banks and retrospectively applied to sales made prior to their introduction.
other financial services companies such as AIG, AXA Financial Inc. Hartford Life Inc. Prudential Financial, Lincoln National, Litigation, disputes and regulatory investigations MetLife and TIAACREF.
may adversely aff ect Prudentials profi tability and Prudential believes competition will intensify across all regions fi financial condition in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the Prudential is, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions, impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
disputes and regulatory investigations in various contexts, Prudentials ability to generate an appropriate return depends including in the ordinary course of its insurance, investment signi cantly upon its capacity to anticipate and respond management and other business operations.
These legal actions, appropriately to these competitive pressures.
disputes and investigations may relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses and operations that are speci c to Prudential, or that are common to companies that operate in Prudentials markets.
Legal actions and disputes may arise under contracts, regulations including tax or from a course of conduct taken by Prudential, and may be class actions.
Although Prudential believes that it has adequately provided in all material aspects for the costs of litigation and regulatory matters, no assurance can be provided that such provisions are suf cient.
Given the large or indeterminate amounts of damages sometimes sought, other sanctions that might be applicable and the inherent unpredictability of litigation and disputes, it is possible that an adverse outcome could, from time to time, have an adverse effect on Prudentials reputation, results of operations or cash ows.
390 Additional information Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk factors continued Downgrades in Prudentials fi financial strength and Although Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks credit ratings could signifi cantly impact its competitive position and hurt its relationships with creditors or associated with its activities, there can be no assurance that such controls will always be effective.
For example, although the trading counterparties Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are used business has not experienced a material failure or breach in relation to IT systems and processes to date, failures or breaches by the market to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public con dence in of this sort, including a cyber-security attack, could harm its ability to perform necessary business functions and hurt its most of Prudentials products, and as a result its competitiveness.
Downgrades in Prudentials ratings, as a result of, for example, relationships with its business partners and customers.
Similarly, any weakness in the administration systems or actuarial reserving decreased pro tability, increased costs, increased indebtedness or other concerns, could have an adverse effect on its ability processes could have an impact on its results of operations during the effective period.
Prudential has not experienced or to market products: retain current policyholders: and on the Groups financial exibility.
In addition, the interest rates identi ed any operational risks in its systems or processes during 2012, which have subsequently caused, or are expected to Prudential pays on its borrowings are affected by its debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure the Groups ability to meet cause, a signi cant negative impact on its results of operations.
Adverse experience relative to the assumptions used in Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 by Moodys, pricing products and reporting business results could A by Standard & Poors and A by Fitch.
The Moodys and Fitch signifi cantly aff ect Prudentials results of operations ratings are on stable outlook and the Standard & Poors rating is Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors on negative outlook.
in determining the pricing of its products, setting reserves, for reporting its capital levels and the results of its long-term Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, A-1 by Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about future expected levels of mortality is particularly The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds financial strength relevant for its UK annuity business.
In exchange for a premium is rated Aa2 by Moodys, AA by Standard & Poors and AA by equal to the capital value of their accumulated pension fund, Fitch.
The Moodys and Fitch ratings are on stable outlook and pension annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, the Standard & Poors rating is on negative outlook.
usually monthly, for as long as they are alive.
Prudential conducts Jacksons financial strength is rated AA by Standard & Poors and rigorous research into longevity risk, using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity Fitch, A1 by Moodys, and A by AM Best.
The Moodys, Fitch and AM Best ratings are on stable outlook and the Standard & pricing and reserving policy, Prudentials UK business assumes that current rates of mortality continuously improve over time at Poors rating is on negative outlook.
levels based on adjusted data and models from the Continuous In addition, changes in methodologies and criteria used by Mortality Investigations CMI as published by the Institute and rating agencies could result in downgrades that do not re ect Faculty of Actuaries.
If mortality improvement rates signi cantly changes in the general economic conditions or Prudentials exceed the improvement assumed, Prudentials results of financial condition.
operations could be adversely affected.
A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent in Prudentials business could have a negative impact about future expected levels of the rates of early termination of products by its customers persistency.
This is particularly on its results of operations Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, relevant to its lines of business other than its UK annuity business.
Prudentials persistency assumptions re ect recent including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems and past experience for each relevant line of business.
Any expected deterioration in future persistency is also re ected in the human error or from external events.
Prudentials business is dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions assumption.
If actual levels of future persistency are signi cantly lower than assumed that is, policy termination rates are across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes.
Further, signi cantly higher than assumed, the Groups results of operations could be adversely affected.
because of the long-term nature of much of the Groups business, accurate records have to be maintained for signi cant periods.
These factors, among others, result in signi cant reliance on and require signi cant investment in information technology, compliance and other systems, personnel and processes.
In addition, Prudential outsources several operations, including a signi cant part of its UK back of ce and customer-facing functions as well as a number of IT functions, resulting in reliance upon the operational processing performance of its outsourcing partners.
Risk factors Additional information Risk factors Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 391 Another example is the impact of epidemics and other effects Prudentials Articles of Association contain an that cause a large number of deaths.
Signi cant in uenza exclusive jurisdiction provision epidemics have occurred three times in the last century, but the Under Prudentials Articles of Association, certain legal likelihood, timing, or the severity of future epidemics cannot be proceedings may only be brought in the courts of England predicted.
The effectiveness of external parties, including and Wales.
This applies to legal proceedings by a shareholder governmental and non-governmental organisations, in in its capacity as such against Prudential and or its directors combating the spread and severity of any epidemics could and or its professional service providers.
It also applies to legal have a material impact on the Groups loss experience.
proceedings between Prudential and its directors and or Prudential and Prudentials professional service providers In common with other life insurers, the pro tability of the Groups that arise in connection with legal proceedings between businesses depends on a mix of factors including mortality and the shareholder and such professional service provider.
morbidity trends, policy surrender rates, investment This provision could make it dif cult for US and other performance and impairments, unit cost of administration and non-UK shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights.
Changes in tax legislation may result in adverse As a holding company, Prudential is dependent upon tax consequences its subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and Tax rules, including those relating to the insurance industry, and dividend payments their interpretation, may change, possibly with retrospective The Groups insurance and investment management operations effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which Prudential operates.
are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Signi cant tax disputes with tax authorities, and any change in As a holding company, Prudentials principal sources of funds the tax status of any member of the Group or in taxation are remittances from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, legislation or its scope or interpretation could affect Prudentials the shareholder transfer from long-term funds and any amounts financial condition and results of operations.
that may be raised through the issuance of equity, debt and commercial paper.
Certain of the subsidiaries are restricted by applicable insurance, foreign exchange and tax laws, rules and regulations that can limit the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could limit the ability to pay dividends to shareholders or to make available funds held in certain subsidiaries to cover operating expenses of other members of the Group.
Prudential operates in a number of markets through joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties including in China and India, involving certain risks that Prudential does not face with respect to its consolidated subsidiaries Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local regulation to operate, through joint ventures including in China and India.
For the Groups joint venture operations, management control is exercised jointly with the venture participants.
The level of control exercisable by the Group depends on the terms of the joint venture agreements, in particular, the allocation of control among, and continued cooperation between, the joint venture participants.
Prudential may also face financial or other exposure in the event that any of its joint venture partners fails to meet its obligations under the joint venture or encounters financial dif culty.
In addition, a signi cant proportion of the Groups product distribution is carried out through arrangements with third parties not controlled by Prudential and is dependent upon continuation of these relationships.
A temporary or permanent disruption to these distribution arrangements could adversely affect the results of operations of Prudential.
