68 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk and capital management As a provider of fi financial services, including insurance, The two measures used to monitor the volatility of earnings the management of risk lies at the heart of Prudentials are European Embedded Value EEV operating pro t and business.
As a result, eff ective risk management International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS operating capabilities represent a key source of competitive pro t, although EEV and IFRS total pro ts are also considered.
Liquidity: the objective is to ensure that the Group is able to generate suf cient cash resources to meet financial obligations The Groups risk framework includes the Groups appetite for risk exposures as well as its approach to risk management.
Under this as they fall due in business as usual and stressed scenarios.
approach, Prudential continuously assesses the Groups top risks Capital requirements: the limits aim to ensure that: and monitors its risk pro le against approved limits.
Prudentials a the Group meets its internal economic capital requirements: main strategies for managing and mitigating risk include asset liability management, using derivatives to hedge relevant b the Group achieves its desired target rating to meet its business objectives: and market risks, and implementing reinsurance and corporate insurance programmes.
The two measures used are the EU Insurance Groups Directive A.
Group risk appetite IGD capital requirements and internal economic capital Audited requirements.
In addition, capital requirements are monitored Prudential fide fines and monitors aggregate risk limits based on on both local statutory and future Solvency II regulatory bases.
financial and nonfinancial stresses for its earnings volatility, liquidity and capital requirements.
Prudentials risk appetite framework forms an integral part of its annual business planning cycle.
The Group Risk Committee Earnings volatility: the objectives of the limits are to ensure that: is responsible for reviewing the risks inherent in the Groups business plan and for providing the Board with input on the a the volatility of earnings is consistent with the expectations of stakeholders: risk reward trade offs implicit therein.
This review is supported by the Group Risk function, which uses submissions by business b the Group has adequate earnings and cash ows to service debt, expected dividends and to withstand unexpected units to calculate the Groups aggregated position allowing for diversi cation effects between business units relative to the shocks: and c earnings and cash ows are managed properly across limits contained within the risk appetite statements.
geographies and are consistent with funding strategies.
Risk exposures Audited The Group Risk Framework deploys a common risk language, allowing meaningful comparisons to be made between different business units.
Risks are broadly categorised as shown below: Category Risk type Defi nition Financial risks Market risk The risk of loss for the Groups business, or of adverse change in the fi financial situation, resulting, directly or indirectly, from fl uctuations in the level or volatility of market prices of assets and liabilities.
Credit risk The risk of loss for the Groups business or of adverse change in the fi financial position, resulting from fl uctuations in the credit standing of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors in the form of default or other signifi cant credit event eg downgrade or spread widening.
Insurance risk The risk of loss for the Groups business or of adverse change in the value of insurance liabilities, resulting from changes in the level, trend, or volatility of a number of insurance risk drivers.
This includes adverse mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency and expense experience.
Liquidity risk The risk of the Group being unable to generate suffi cient cash resources or to meet fi financial obligations as they fall due in business as usual and stress scenarios.
Non-fi financial risks Operational risk The risk of loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, or from personnel and systems, or from external events other than those covered by business environment risk.
Business Exposure to forces in the external environment that could signifi cantly environment risk change the fundamentals that drive the businesss overall strategy.
Strategic risk Ineff ective, ineffi cient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
Risk and capital management Business review Risk and capital management Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 69 The key financial and nonfinancial risks and uncertainties faced Jackson hedges the economics of its products rather than the by the Group, that have been considered by the Group Risk accounting result.
This focus means that we accept a degree of Committee, and Prudentials approaches to managing them, variability in our accounting results in order to ensure we achieve are described below: the appropriate economic result.
Accordingly, while Jacksons hedges are effective on an economic basis, due to different B.
1 Financial risks accounting treatment for the hedges and some of the underlying a Market risk hedged items on an IFRS basis, the reported income effect is i Equity risk more variable.
Audited In the UK business, most of Prudentials equity exposure ii Interest rate risk is incurred in the with-pro ts fund, which includes Audited a large inherited estate estimated at 7.0 billion as at Interest rate risk arises from Prudentials investments in long-term 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: 6.1 billion.
This debt and xed income securities, and also exists in policies that can absorb market uctuations and protect the funds solvency.
carry investment guarantees on early surrender or at maturity, The inherited estate itself is partially protected against falls where claim values can become higher than the value of backing in equity markets through an active hedging policy.
assets as a result of rises or falls in interest rates.
In Asia, Prudentials shareholder exposure to equities relates In Asia, the exposure to interest rate risk arises from the guarantees of some non-unit-linked investment products.
This to revenue from unit-linked products and, from a capital perspective, to the effect of falling equity markets on the exposure arises because it may not be possible to hold assets which will provide cash ows to match exactly those relating to with-pro ts businesses.
This results in a mismatch due to the In the US, where we are a leading provider of variable annuities, duration and uncertainty of the liability cash ows and the lack of there are risks associated with the guarantees embedded in our suf cient assets of a suitable duration.
While this residual asset products.
We provide guaranteed minimum death bene ts liability mismatch risk can be managed, it cannot be eliminated.
GMDB on substantially all policies in this class, guaranteed minimum withdrawal bene ts GMWB on a signi cant In the US, there is interest rate risk across the portfolio.
The proportion of the book, and guaranteed minimum income majority of Jacksons xed annuity and life liabilities allow for bene ts GMIB on only 3 per cent.
To protect the shareholders an annual reset of the crediting rate, which provides for a greater against the volatility introduced by these embedded options, level of discretion in determining the amount of interest rate risk we use both a comprehensive hedging programme and to assume.
The primary concerns with these liabilities relate to reinsurance.
The GMIB is no longer offered, with existing potential surrenders when rates increase and, in a low interest coverage being reinsured.
environment, the minimum guarantees required by state law.
For variable annuities, interest rate changes will in uence the level of The Jackson IFRS shareholders equity and US statutory capital reserves held for certain guaranteed bene ts.
With its large xed are sensitive to the effects of policyholder behaviour on the annuity and xed index annuity books, Jackson has natural valuation of GMWB guarantees, but to manageable levels.
offsets for its variable annuity interest-rate related risks.
Jackson In our variable annuity sales activities, we focus on meeting the manages interest rate exposure through a combination of interest needs of conservative and risk averse customers who are seeking rate swaps and interest rate options.
reliable income in retirement, and who display little tendency to In the UK, the investment policy for the shareholder-backed arbitrage their guarantees.
These customers generally select annuity business is to match the annuity payments with the cash conservative investment options.
We are able to meet the ows from investments.
As a result, assets and liabilities are needs of these customers because of the strength of our closely matched by duration.
The impact on pro t of any residual operational platform.
cash ow mismatching can be adversely affected by changes in It is our philosophy not to compete on price: rather, we seek to interest rates: therefore the mismatching position is regularly sell at a price suf cient to fund the cost we incur to hedge or monitored.
The guarantees of the with-pro t business give rise reinsure our risks and to achieve an acceptable return for to some interest rate discounting risk as falling rates may result our shareholders.
in an increase in the cost of guarantees.
Except for severe stress scenarios where shareholders support may be required, this We use a macro approach to hedging that covers the risks risk is borne by the with-pro ts fund.
inherent across the US business.
Within this macro approach we make use of the natural offsets that exist between the variable iii Foreign exchange risk annuity guarantees and the xed index annuity book, and then Audited use a combination of over-the-counter OTC options and Prudential principally operates in the UK, the US and in exchange traded derivatives to hedge the remaining risk, Asia.
The geographical diversity of its businesses means that considering signi cant market shocks and limiting the amount Prudential is inevitably subject to the risk of exchange rate of capital we are putting at risk.
Internal positions are generally uctuations.
Prudentials international operations in the US and netted before any external hedge positions are considered.
Asia, which represent a signi cant proportion of its operating The hedging programme also covers the fees on variable pro t and shareholders funds, generally write policies and invest annuity guarantees.
in assets denominated in local currency.
Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate uctuations on local operating results, it can lead to signi cant uctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements when results are expressed in pounds sterling.
70 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk and capital management continued The Group retains revenues locally to support the growth of the b Credit risk Groups business and capital is held in the local currency of the Audited business to meet local regulatory and market requirements, In addition to business unit and Group-wide operational limits accepting the balance sheet translation risks this can produce.
on credit risk, Prudential monitors closely its counterparty However, in cases where a surplus arising in an overseas exposures at Group level, highlighting those that are large or of operation supports Group capital or shareholders interest concern.
Where appropriate, Prudential will reduce its exposure, ie remittances, this exposure is hedged if it is economically purchase credit protection or make use of collateral optimal to do so.
The Group does not have appetite for signi cant arrangements to control its levels of credit risk.
shareholder exposures to foreign exchange risks in currencies outside the local territory.
Currency borrowings, swaps and other derivatives are used to manage exposures.
The Groups balance sheet held the following total investments at 31 December 2012: 2012 bn 2011 bn Unit-linked Participating and variable ShareholderTotal Total funds annuities backed Group Group Debt securities 62.0 9.5 68.6 140.1 124.5 Equity 25.1 73.9 1.0 100.0 87.3 Property investments 8.7 0.6 1.6 10.9 10.8 Mortgage loans 1.3 4.8 6.1 5.7 Other loans 1.4 4.3 5.7 4.0 Deposits 9.5 1.4 1.8 12.7 10.7 Other investments 4.7 3.2 7.9 7.6 Total 112.7 85.4 85.3 283.4 250.6 The table below presents the balances of investments related to shareholder-backed operations at 31 December 2012.
2012 bn 2011 bn Shareholder-backed investments: Asia life 8.7 7.1 UK life 31.3 28.5 US life 42.0 34.0 Other 3.3 3.8 Total 85.3 73.4 Shareholders are not directly exposed to value movements on assets backing participating or unit-linked operations, with sensitivity mainly related to shareholder-backed operations.
i Debt portfolio Audited The investments held by the shareholder-backed operations are predominantly debt securities, of which 95 per cent are rated, either externally or internally, as investment grade 31 December 2011: 95 per cent.
The Groups total debt securities portfolio on an IFRS basis comprised the following at 31 December 2012: 2012 bn 2011 bn Unit-linked Participating and variable ShareholderTotal Total funds annuities backed Group Group Insurance operations: UK 50.5 6.3 27.1 83.9 78.0 Jackson National Life 33.0 33.0 27.0 Asia long-term business 11.5 3.2 6.7 21.4 17.7 Other operations 1.8 1.8 1.8 Total 62.0 9.5 68.6 140.1 124.5 Jacksons variable annuity separate account assets comprise equity securities and portfolio holdings in unit trusts including mutual funds, the majority of which are equity based.
Risk and capital management Business review Risk and capital management Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 71 UK unit-linked funds where the shareholders risk is limited, with The UKs debt portfolio on an IFRS basis is 83.9 billion as the remaining 27.1 billion backing the shareholders annuity at 31 December 2012, including 50.5 billion within the UK business and other non-linked business of which 75 per cent is with-pro ts fund.
Shareholders risk exposure to the with-pro ts rated AAA to A-, 23 per cent BBB and 2 per cent non-investment fund is limited as the solvency is protected by the large inherited grade.
The UK shareholder-backed portfolio did not experience estate.
Outside the with-pro ts fund there is 6.3 billion in any default losses in 2012.
US At 31 December 2012, Jacksons xed income debt securities portfolio consisted of: Summary 2012 m 2011 m Corporate and government security and commercial loans: Government 4,126 2,163 note Publicly traded and SEC Rule 144A securities 19,699 16,281 Non-SEC Rule 144A securities 3,542 3,198 Total 27,367 21,642 Residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS 2,400 2,591 Commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS 2,639 2,169 Other debt securities 587 620 Total US debt securities 32,993 27,022 Note A 1990 SEC rule that facilitates the resale of privately placed securities that are without SEC registration to qualifi ed institutional investors.
The rule was designed to develop a more liquid and effi cient institutional resale market for unregistered securities.
Of the 23.2 billion of corporate debt, 95 per cent is investment Unrealised gains and losses on debt securities in the US grade.
Concentration risk within the corporate debt portfolio Jacksons net unrealised gains from debt securities is low, with the top ten holdings accounting for approximately were 2,807 million at 31 December 2012, compared to 8 per cent of the portfolio.
Our largest sector exposures in the 2,057 million at 31 December 2011.
The gross unrealised investment grade corporate debt portfolio are Energy and loss position was 178 million at 31 December 2012 Utilities at 15 per cent and 13 per cent, respectively.
Gross unrealised losses manage the portfolio and will sell exposures as events dictate.
on securities priced at less than 80 per cent of face value totalled 53 million at 31 December 2012 compared to 158 million at Within the RMBS portfolio of 2.4 billion, the portion guaranteed 31 December 2011. by the US government sponsored agencies is 57 per cent.
The CMBS portfolio of 2.6 billion is performing strongly, with Asia 40 per cent of the portfolio rated AAA and less than 2 per cent rated Asias debt portfolio totalled 21.4 billion at 31 December 2012. below investment grade.
The entire portfolio has an average credit Of this, approximately 69 per cent was in unit-linked and enhancement level of 31 per cent.
This level provides signi cant with-pro ts funds with minimal shareholders risk.
The remaining protection, since it means the underlying collateral has to incur 31 per cent is shareholder exposure and is invested predominantly a 31 per cent loss, net of recoveries, before our holding is at risk.
65 per cent in investment grade bonds.
The Asian portfolio has Jacksons debt securities experienced total credit-related losses performed very well, and did not experience any default losses in 2012 of 47 million 2011: 52 million.
This includes a loss in 2012. net of recoveries of 10 million 2011: gains of 10 million on credit-related sales of impaired bonds.
IFRS write-downs on debt Asset management securities were 37 million 2011: 62 million.
Of this amount of The debt portfolio of the Groups asset management operations write-downs, 8 million 2011: 21 million was in respect to of 1.8 billion as at 31 December 2012 is principally related to RMBS securities.
In addition to the amounts for debt securities, Prudential Capital operations.
Of this amount 1.5 billion were there were 5 million 2011: 28 million of write-downs on rated AAA to Aby S&P or Aaa by Moodys.
Jacksons commercial mortgage loan portfolio.
In 2012 and 2011, Jackson did not experience any defaults on its debt securities.
ii Group sovereign debt exposure Audited The impairment process re ects a review of every bond and Sovereign debt represented 15 per cent or 10.4 billion of security in our portfolio.
Our accounting policy requires us to the debt portfolio backing shareholder business excluding book full mark to market losses on impaired securities through unit-linked business at 31 December 2012 2011: 16 per cent and our balance sheet.
However, we would expect only a proportion 9.2 billion respectively.
38 per cent of this was rated AAA and of these losses eventually to turn into defaults, and some of the 92 per cent investment grade 2011: 43 per cent and 94 per cent impaired securities to recover in price over time.
Of the Groups holdings in Continental Europe of 564 million, 79 per cent was AAA rated 2011: 690 million and 87 per cent respectively.
Shareholder exposure to the Eurozone sovereigns of Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain PIIGS is 52 million 2011: 44 million.
The Group does not have any sovereign debt exposure to Greece, Portugal or Ireland.
72 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk and capital management continued The exposure of the Groups shareholder and with-pro ts funds to sovereign debt including credit default swaps that are referenced to sovereign debt at 31 December 2012 is as follows.
31 December 2012 m 31 December 2011 m Shareholder With-profi ts Shareholder With-profi ts sovereign sovereign sovereign sovereign debt debt debt debt Continental Europe: Italy 51 59 43 52 Spain 1 31 1 33 52 90 44 85 Germany 444 469 598 602 Other Europe principally Belgium and Isle of Man 68 41 48 62 564 600 690 749 United Kingdom 3,432 2,306 3,254 2,801 United States 3,585 1,169 2,448 2,615 Other, predominantly Asia 2,867 271 2,850 332 Total 10,448 4,346 9,242 6,497 Holdings of UK government debt accounted for 3.4 billion of the Prudential actively mitigates the level of Group-wide credit risk shareholder sovereign debt portfolio at 31 December 2012.
Post invested credit and counterparty through a comprehensive year end, the United Kingdom no longer has a unanimous AAA system of hard limits, collateralisation agreements and centrally rating, as Moodys on 22 February 2013 lowered its rating to Aa1.
However, given that the vast majority of the debt backs sterling Of the 68.6 billion of debt securities backing shareholder liabilities, the downgrade has not resulted in large price business, excluding holdings attributable to external holders of uctuations in the gilt market and that the rating remains very consolidated unit trusts, 3 per cent or 2.2 billion was in Tier 1 strong, the downgrade is not expected to signi cantly impact and Tier 2 hybrid bank debt.
A further 3.2 billion was in the the Groups balance sheet and earnings.
iii Exposure to bank debt securities In terms of shareholder exposures to the bank debt of PIIGS, Audited Prudential held 260 million at 31 December 2012 Prudential expects that any second order sovereign credit 31 December 2011: 328 million.
This comprised 130 million exposures would most likely be concentrated in the banking of covered bonds, 93 million senior debt, 3 million Tier 1 debt sector.
The Groups bank exposure is a function of its core and 34 million Tier 2 debt.
There was no direct exposure to investment business, as well as of the hedging and other activities Greek banks.
undertaken to manage its various financial risks.
Prudential relies on public information and credit research sources to identify banks with large concentrations of indirect exposure.
Prudential has a range of controls and processes to manage credit exposure.
In addition to the control frameworks that cover shareholder and policyholder credit risk within each business unit, the Group Credit Risk Committee oversees shareholder credit risk across the Group.
The Committee receives comprehensive management information, including details of counterparty and invested credit exposure including structured credit and loans, secured and unsecured cash balances, top 30 credit exposures, and an analysis of shareholder exposure by industry country and rating.
The business units and the Group Risk function also continually monitor the portfolio for emerging credit risks through various tools and processes.
Risk and capital management Business review Risk and capital management Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 73 The Group held the following direct exposures to banks debt securities of shareholder-backed business at 31 December 2012.
Bank debt securities participating funds m Senior debt Subordinated debt Total Total senior subordinated 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Covered Senior debt Tier 2 Tier 1 debt Total Total Portugal 6 6 6 7 Ireland 6 6 6 Italy 71 71 4 4 75 96 Greece 5 Spain 173 12 185 1 1 186 138 179 89 268 4 1 5 273 246 Austria France 16 78 94 56 7 63 157 144 Germany 7 Luxembourg 7 Netherlands 136 136 2 2 138 122 United Kingdom 725 423 1,148 749 7 756 1,904 1,550 Total Europe 920 726 1,646 811 15 826 2,472 2,076 United States 1,837 1,837 240 6 246 2,083 2,052 Other, predominantly Asia 48 340 388 206 61 267 655 746 Total 968 2,903 3,871 1,257 82 1,339 5,210 4,874 74 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk and capital management continued iv Other possible impacts of a Eurozone crisis In respect of operational risks, we believe we have strong Audited investment operations, counterparty risk and change Other knock on impacts of a Eurozone crisis may represent some management capabilities that enable us to manage risk to the Group, both in terms of financial market impact and the transition to a new Eurozone regime if events require potential operational issues.
These third order exposures are it to do so.
intrinsically more dif cult to quantify.
However, as well as the monitoring routines noted above, Prudential has also developed v Loans tools to identify the Groups exposure to counterparties at risk Audited including contingent credit exposures, and has in place Of the total Group loans of 11.8 billion at 31 December 2012, Group-wide processes to facilitate the management of such the following are held by shareholder-backed operations.
2012 bn 2011 bn Mortgage Other Mortgage Other loans loans Total loans loans Total note i Asia insurance operations 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 note ii US insurance operations 3.5 2.7 6.2 3.6 0.6 4.2 note iii UK insurance operations 1.3 1.3 1.1 1.1 note iv Asset management operations 1.2 1.2 1.3 1.3 Total loans held by shareholder-backed operations 4.8 4.3 9.1 4.7 2.3 7.0 Notes i The majority of Asia insurance operations loans are commercial loans held by the Malaysian operation that are rated investment grade by two local rating agencies.
ii The US insurance operations held 6.2 billion of loans, comprising 3.5 billion of commercial mortgage loans and 2.7 billion of policy loans.
Approximately 1.8 billion of the policy loans are held as collateral related to the three reinsurance treaties with Swiss Re, which are off set by a funds withheld liability.
These loans are carried at fair value.
All other loans are accounted for at amortised cost, less any impairment.
All commercial mortgage loans held by US insurance operations are collateralised by properties.
The US commercial mortgage loan portfolio does not include any single-family residential mortgage loans and therefore is not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with residential sub-prime mortgage loans.
Jackson incurred write downs of 5 million on its commercial mortgage book 2011: write-downs of 28 million.
iii The majority of mortgage loans held by UK insurance operations are mortgage loans collateralised by properties.
iv Relates to bridging loan fi finance managed by Prudential Capital.
vi Counterparty credit risk c Insurance risk Audited Audited The Group enters into a variety of exchange traded and The processes of determining the price of Prudentials products over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including and reporting the results of its long-term business operations futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such require Prudential to make a number of assumptions.
In common as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, swaptions and with other industry players, the pro tability of Prudentials credit default swaps.
businesses depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity levels and trends, persistency, investment All over-the-counter derivative transactions, with the performance, unit cost of administration and new business exception of some Asian transactions, are conducted under acquisition expenses.
standardised ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc master agreements and the Group has Prudential continues to conduct research into longevity risk using collateral agreements between the individual Group entities data from its substantial annuity portfolio.
The assumptions that and relevant counterparties in place under each of these Prudential makes about future expected levels of mortality market master agreements.
are particularly relevant in its UK annuity business.
The attractiveness of transferring longevity risk via reinsurance The Groups exposure to derivative counterparty and and other external solutions is regularly evaluated.
These reinsurance counterparty credit risk is subject to the same are used as risk management tools where it is appropriate and framework of Group-wide operational limits and monitoring as attractive to do so.
Where appropriate, Prudential will reduce its exposure, purchase credit protection or make use of additional Prudentials morbidity risk is mitigated by appropriate collateral arrangements to control its levels of counterparty underwriting and use of reinsurance and the morbidity credit risk.
assumptions re ect recent experience and expectation of future trends for each relevant line of business.
Risk and capital management Business review Risk and capital management Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 75 Prudentials persistency assumptions re ect recent experience With regard to business environment risk, including the impacts for each relevant line of business, and any expectations of future of regulatory developments, the Group has a wide-ranging persistency.
Persistency risk is mitigated by appropriate training programme of active and constructive engagement with and sales processes and managed proactively post sale.
Where governments, policymakers and regulators in its key markets appropriate, allowance is also made for the relationship either and with relevant international institutions.
Such engagement assumed or historically observed between persistency and is undertaken both directly and indirectly via trade associations.
investment returns, and for the resulting additional risk.
The Group has procedures in place to monitor and track political and regulatory developments and assess their potential impact d Liquidity risk on the Group.
Where appropriate, the Group provides Audited submissions and technical input to of cials and others, either The parent company has signi cant internal sources of liquidity via submissions to formal consultations or through interactions which are suf cient to meet all of its expected requirements for with of cials.
the foreseeable future without having to make use of external With regard to strategic risk, both business units and the Group funding.
In aggregate the Group has 2.1 billion of undrawn Head Of ce are required to adopt a forward-looking approach committed facilities, expiring between 2013 and 2017.
In to risk management by performing risk assessments as part addition, the Group has access to liquidity via the debt capital of the annual strategic planning process.
Prudential also has in place an unlimited commercial identi cation of potential threats and the initiatives needed to paper programme and has maintained a consistent presence as address them, as well as competitive opportunities.
The impact an issuer in this market for the last decade.
Liquidity uses and on the underlying businesses and or Group-wide risk pro le is sources have been assessed at the Group and at a business unit also considered to ensure that strategic initiatives are within level under base case and stressed assumptions.
resources available and the subsequent Liquidity Coverage Ratio are regularly monitored and have been assessed to be suf cient Solvency II represents a regulatory risk due to the uncertainty under both sets of assumptions.
of what the rules will be when nalised, their potential impacts, and the timing of their introduction.
The risks are that the Group may not be able to respond suf ciently quickly to the strategic B.
2 Non-fi financial risk Unaudited implication of the change given levels of uncertainty around the content and timing: operational risk in terms of the scale and Prudential is exposed to operational, business environment and strategic risk in the course of running its businesses.
complexity of the delivery and uncertainty over timelines: and the additional capital that the Group may be required to hold.
Prudential is exposed to operational risk through the course of Solvency II is covered in more detail in the Capital Management running its business.
It is dependent on the successful processing section below.
of a large and complex number of transactions, utilising various IT applications and platforms, across numerous and diverse B.
It also operates under the ever evolving requirements Our disclosures covering risk factors can be found at the end set out by different regulatory and legal regimes including tax, of this document.
as well as utilising a signi cant number of third parties to distribute products and to support business operations.
C. Capital management Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls that are C. 1 Regulatory capital IGD Audited designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks associated with its activities.
The Prudential Group Governance Manual was Prudential is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of the European Union Insurance Groups Directive IGD as developed to make a key contribution to the sound system of internal control that the Group is expected to maintain under the implemented by the Financial Services Authority FSA in the UK.
The IGD capital adequacy requirements involve aggregating UK Corporate Governance Code and the Hong Kong Code on Corporate Governance Practices.
Group Head Of ce and surplus capital calculated on a FSA consistent basis for regulated subsidiaries, from which Group borrowings, except those business units con rm that they have implemented the necessary controls to evidence compliance with the Manual.
subordinated debt issues that qualify as capital, are deducted.
No credit for the bene t of diversi cation is permitted under Prudential has an operational risk management framework in this approach.
place that facilitates both the qualitative and quantitative analysis of operational risk exposures.
The output of this framework, in Prudentials capital position remains strong.
Prudential has particular management information on key operational risk and continued to place emphasis on maintaining the Groups financial control assessments, scenario analysis, internal incidents and strength through optimising the balance between writing external incidents, is reported by the business units and pro table new business, conserving capital and generating cash.
presented to the Group Operational Risk Committee.
This Prudential estimates that its IGD capital surplus is 5.1 billion at information also supports business decision-making and 31 December 2012 before taking into account the 2012 final lessons-learned activities: the ongoing improvement of the dividend, with available capital covering its capital requirements control environment: and determination of the adequacy of 3.0 times.
This compares to a capital surplus of 4.0 billion at the Prudentials corporate insurance programme.
end of 2011 before taking into account the 2011 final dividend.
76 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk and capital management continued The movements in 2012 mainly comprise: Unaudited On this revised basis, the IGD surplus at 28 February 2013 A A A A A A A A A A A A A Net capital generation mainly through operating earnings 1 is estimated at 4.4 billion equivalent to a capital cover of in-force releases less investment in new business, net of tax 2.5 times which includes the 0.4 billion of subordinated debt of 2.5 billion.
raised in January 2013 and is after deducting 1.3 billion in Offset by: respect of the Jackson change from 75 per cent to 250 per cent of CAL.
A A A A A A A A A A A A A Negative impact arising from market movements estimated at 0.2 billion: Prudential continues to have further options available to manage available and required capital.
These could take the form of A A A A A A A A A A A A A Final 2011 dividend of 0.5 billion and interim 2012 dividend increasing available capital for example, through financial of 0.2 billion: reinsurance or reducing required capital for example, through A A A A A A A A A A A A A External nancing costs and other central costs, net of tax, the mix and level of new business and the use of other risk of 0.4 billion: and mitigation measures such as hedging and reinsurance.
A number of such options were utilised through the last financial crisis in A A A A A A A A A A A A A Negative impact arising from foreign exchange movements 2008 and 2009 to enhance the Groups IGD surplus.
arrangement allowed the Group to recognise a proportion of IGD surplus represents the accumulation of surpluses across the shareholders interest in future transfers from the UKs all of our operations based on local regulatory minimum with-pro ts business and this remained in place, contributing capital requirements with some adjustments, pursuant to the 0.36 billion to the IGD at 31 December 2012.
We will phase this requirements of Solvency I.
The calculation does not fully adjust out in two equal steps, reducing the credit taken to 0.18 billion capital requirements for risk nor does it capture the true from January 2013 and we expect to take zero credit from economic value of assets.
Global regulatory developments, such January 2014. as Solvency II and ComFrame, aim to ensure that the calculation In addition to its strong capital position, on a statutory Pillar 1 of regulatory surplus continues to evolve over time into a more basis, the total credit reserve for the UK shareholder annuity meaningful economic measure.
funds also protects its capital position in excess of the IGD There is broad agreement that ultimately it would be bene cial surplus.
This credit reserve as at 31 December 2012 was to replace the IGD regime with a regime that would be more risk 2.1 billion.
This credit risk allowance represents 40 per cent based.
Solvency II was supposed to provide such a framework of the bond portfolio spread over swap rates, compared to but we now know that it will not be implemented before 33 per cent as at 31 December 2011.
The structure of the Group and the approach we have taken to managing our risks, with a sizeable credit Stress testing reserve in the UK annuity book, a strong inherited estate in UK Unaudited with pro ts and the relatively low risk nature of our asset As at 31 December 2012, stress testing of our IGD capital management and Asian operations, together with a high level of position to various events has the following results: IGD surplus, means we have positioned ourselves well for future A A A A A A A A A A A A An instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets from regulatory developments and stresses to our business.
31 December 2012 levels would reduce the IGD surplus by 450 million: Unaudited In March 2013, we have agreed with the FSA to amend the A A A A A A A A A A A A A 40 per cent fall in equity markets comprising an calculation of the contribution Jackson makes to the Groups IGD instantaneous 20 per cent fall followed by a further surplus.
Until now, the contribution of Jackson to the reported 20 per cent fall over a four-week period would reduce IGD was based on an intervention level set at 75 per cent of US the IGD surplus by 950 million: Risk-Based Capital Company Action Level CAL.
Going forward, A A A A A A A A A A A A A 100 basis points reduction subject to a oor of zero in the contribution of Jackson to IGD surplus will equal the surplus interest rates would reduce the IGD surplus by 850 million : in excess of 250 per cent of CAL.
This is more in line with the level and at which we currently report free surplus, which we have set at 235 per cent of CAL.
In the absence of an agreed Solvency II A A A A A A A A A A A A Credit defaults of ten times the expected level would reduce approach, we believe that this change makes the IGD surplus a more IGD surplus by 700 million.
meaningful measure and one that is more closely aligned with economic reality.
The revised IGD surplus calculation has no impact on the way that the US business is managed or regulated locally.
Note 1 The estimated position at 28 February 2013 allows for economic conditions and surplus generation since 31 December 2012 and is stated before the fi final dividend and the eff ect of the Thanachart acquisition and aft er allowing for a reduction in Jacksons contribution to IGD surplus of 1.3 billion.
T he impact of the 100 basis points reduction in interest rates is exacerbated by the current regulatory permitted practice used by Jackson, which values all interest rate swaps at book value rather than fair value for regulatory purposes.
At 31 December 2012, removing the permitted practice would have increased reported IGD surplus by 0.3 billion.
As at 31 December 2012, it is estimated that a 100 basis point reduction in interest rates subject to a fl oor of zero would have resulted in an IGD surplus of 4.9 billion, excluding the permitted practice.
The eff ect of the revised calculation of Jacksons contribution to IGD surplus as at 31 December 2012 would have been to increase the sensitivity to equity market falls by approximately 50 million.
Risk and capital management Business review Risk and capital management Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 77 Prudential believes that the results of these stress tests, adverse for Prudential, including potentially that a signi cant together with the Groups strong underlying earnings capacity, increase in capital may be required to support its business and its established hedging programmes and its additional areas of that Prudential may be placed at a competitive disadvantage to financial exibility, demonstrate that it is in a position to withstand other European and non-European financial services groups.
signi cant deterioration in market conditions.
Prudential is actively participating in shaping the outcome through our involvement in industry bodies and trade Prudential also uses an economic capital assessment to monitor associations, including the Chief Risk Of cer and Chief Financial its capital requirements across the Group, allowing for realistic Of cer Forums, together with the Association of British Insurers diversi cation bene ts and continues to maintain a strong position.
and Insurance Europe formerly known as the Comit Europen This assessment provides valuable insights into its risk pro le.
C. 2 Solvency II and other global regulatory The delays in nalising the Omnibus II Directive and implementing measures are expected to result in a deferral of the developments Unaudited Solvency II implementation date for rms beyond the previously anticipated date of 1 January 2014.
At this stage, it remains The European Union EU is developing a new solvency framework for insurance companies, referred to as Solvency II.
unclear exactly when Solvency II will come into force, although a deferral until 1 January 2016 or beyond appears likely.
The Solvency II Directive, which sets out the new framework, was formally approved by the Economic and Financial Affairs Having assessed the requirements of Solvency II, an Council in November 2009.
The new approach is based on the implementation programme was initiated with dedicated teams concept of three pillars minimum capital requirements, to manage the required work across the Group.
The activity of supervisory review of rms assessments of risk, and enhanced the local Solvency II teams is being coordinated centrally to disclosure requirements.
achieve consistency in the understanding and application of Speci cally, Pillar 1 covers the quantitative requirements around the requirements.
Prudential is continuing its preparations to own funds, valuation rules for assets and liabilities and capital adopt the regime when it eventually comes into force and is requirements.
Pillar 2 provides the qualitative requirements undertaking in parallel an evaluation of the possible actions to for risk management, governance and controls, including the mitigate its effects.
Prudential regularly reviews its range of requirement for insurers to submit an Own Risk and Solvency options to maximise the strategic exibility of the Group.
This Assessment which will be used by the regulator as part of the includes consideration of optimising the Groups domicile as a supervisory review process.
Pillar 3 deals with the enhanced possible response to an adverse outcome on Solvency II.
requirements for supervisory reporting and public disclosure.
Over the coming months Prudential will remain in regular contact A key aspect of Solvency II is that the assessment of risks and with the FSA as it continues to engage in the pre-application stage of the approval process for the internal model.
In addition, capital requirements are intended to be aligned more closely with economic capital methodologies and may allow Prudential Prudential also expects to engage in the initial stage of the FSAs proposed Individual Capital Adequacy Standards Plus ICAS to make use of internal economic capital models if approved by the relevant supervisory authority.
regime, which will ultimately enable its UK insurance entities to leverage the developments made in relation to the Solvency II Representatives from the European Parliament, the European internal model for the purpose of meeting existing ICAS regime.
Commission and the Council of the European Union are currently discussing the Omnibus II Directive which, once approved, will Currently there are also a number of other prospective global regulatory developments which could impact the way in which amend certain aspects of the original Solvency II Directive.
In addition the European Commission is continuing to develop, in Prudential is supervised in its many jurisdictions.
These include the Dodd-Frank Act in the US, the work of the Financial Stability consultation with stakeholders including industry, the detailed rules that will complement the high-level principles of the Board FSB on Globally Systemically Important Financial Institutions G-SIFIs and the Common Framework for the Directive, referred to as implementing measures.
The Omnibus II Directive is not currently scheduled to be nalised Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups ComFrame being developed by the International Association until late 2013, while the implementing measures cannot be nalised until after Omnibus II.
The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the There is a signi cant uncertainty regarding the final outcome from this process.
In particular, the Solvency II rules relating financial services industry within the United States that, among other reforms to financial services entities, products and markets, to the determination of the liability discount rate and to the treatment of US business remain unclear and Prudentials capital may subject financial institutions designated as systemically important to heightened prudential and other requirements position is sensitive to these outcomes.
With reference to the liability discount rate, solutions to remove arti cial volatility from intended to prevent or mitigate the impact of future disruptions in the US financial system.
The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the balance sheet have been suggested by policymakers as the regulations continue to evolve.
These solutions, along with Prudentials businesses is not currently clear, however, as many of its provisions have a delayed effectiveness and or require transitional arrangements for the treatment of the US business, are continuing to be considered by policymakers as part of the rulemaking or other actions by various US regulators over the coming years.
process to reach agreement on the Omnibus II Directive.
There is a risk that the effect of the measures nally adopted could be 78 Business review Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Risk and capital management continued As part of a global initiative to identify G-SIFIs, in May 2012, C. 4 Risk mitigation and hedging the IAIS published proposed assessment methodology for Unaudited designating Globally Systemically Important Insurers G-SIIs.
Prudential manages its actual risk pro le against its tolerance of For those groups that are designated by the FSB as G-SII then risk.
To do this, Prudential maintains risk registers that include additional policy measures including enhanced supervision, details of the risks Prudential has identi ed and of the controls introduction of recovery and resolution plans and higher loss and mitigating actions it employs in managing them.
Any absorbency requirements could be proposed.
Further detail of mitigation strategies involving large transactions such as a the proposals is expected during 2013 and implementation is material derivative transaction involving shareholder business likely to be over a period of years.
Furthermore, the FSA is are subject to review at Group level before implementation.
considering the designation of Domestically Systemically Prudential uses a range of risk management and mitigation Important Insurer DSII for those UK insurers that are strategies.
The most important of these include: adjusting signi cant in UK terms.
It is not yet clear what the impact asset portfolios to reduce investment risks such as duration of this designation may be.
mismatches or overweight counterparty exposures : using ComFrame is also being developed by the IAIS to provide derivatives to hedge market risks: implementing reinsurance common global requirements for supervision of insurance programmes to manage insurance risk: implementing corporate groups.
The framework is designed to develop common insurance programmes to limit the impact of operational risks: principles for supervision and so may increase the focus of and revising business plans where appropriate.
It is also possible that some prescriptive requirements, including group capital, could be proposed.
Further clarity on ComFrame is expected during the second half of 2013.
C. 3 Capital allocation Unaudited Prudentials approach to capital allocation is to attain a balance between risk and return, investing in those businesses that create shareholder value.
In order to ef ciently allocate capital, Prudential measures the use of, and the return on, capital.
Prudential uses a variety of metrics for measuring capital performance and pro tability, including traditional accounting metrics and economic returns.
Capital allocation decisions are supported by this quantitative analysis, as well as strategic considerations.
The economic framework measures risk adjusted returns on economic capital, a methodology that ensures meaningful comparison across the Group.
Capital utilisation, return on capital and new business value creation are measured at the product level as part of the business planning process.
