Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 36 Management and governance structure Robust operational controls and Management Audit Group Board Operations Business risk management Committee MOB Review New business Our management and governance structure is gateway Black Hat designed to ensure we balance our appetite for Nominations Remuneration process growth with maintaining business performance Group Committee Committee and careful risk management.
Financial Pre-MOB Services This ensures that management are informed and Acquisitions Bids over Divisional Risk & 50m responsive to performance and trends in the Review Governance business and the wider marketplace and can Forum make informed strategic and tactical decisions.
This structure empowers the Groups businesses, Bids under Divisional Risk, Divisional promotes accountability and fosters the 50m Compliance and Directors Business entrepreneurial culture which supports our Audit Committees Unit Review long term growth.
Business Unit Risk Business Unit Committee Board Specialist Specialist Committee Committee Strategy Bids Risk Performance Business planning & Acquisitions Compliance performance Internal Audit Dividend policy Capital management Sales & marketing Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 37 Managing our business Managing our risks Group Risk & Compliance: maintains appropriate risk management policies and frameworks on behalf The Group Board sets the strategic direction for the Effective risk management not only acts to protect of the Group Board and provides oversight for the business and monitors the ongoing achievement of and maximise the financial performance of the implementation and execution of those policies.
these underlying goals at divisional level.
The Joint business, it also offers the opportunity to safely In respect of financial services regulation, it also Chief Operating Officers report to the Board on undertake more complex, operationally challenging acts as a co-ordination point for our business level business performance and development and, in turn, projects and attract the higher reward that comes compliance activities and provides strategic the Divisional Directors report to them.
with the ability to effectively manage risk.
The Group leadership in our relationships with our various Board is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate Each individual division develops its own business regulatory authorities.
The Group Risk & Compliance risk management framework is in place, with relevant plan and strategy which are reviewed and challenged Director has an administrative reporting line to the systems and controls to identify, assess and mitigate by the Board.
These annual business plans feed into Group Finance Director.
The main conduit for major business risks that could impact the delivery of the overall Group business plan and strategy.
reporting is to the Audit Committee and, for financial our growth strategy.
services firms, the Group Financial Services Risk & The Capita Risk Appetite Statement, is subject to Managing our performance Governance Forum and they have full access to any regular review as the Groups plans, controls and level governance or risk forum across the Group.
The The Management Operations Business MOB of risk maturity develop over time.
It provides a Director also has access to all members of the Board review is a monthly process where the management consistent reference point for the alignment of risk and holds regular meetings with the Executive and of each division presents details of performance and taking and risk management throughout the Divisional Directors.
The Director also regularly business developments to the Groups Executive organisation and is reviewed and adopted at meets the Audit Committee Chairman and NonBoard Directors.
This enables the Group Executive divisional and business unit level as applicable.
Board to track the financial and operational progress of each division.
Implementation of risk management is aligned with Capitas decentralised business model.
The performance of the underlying business units Each Divisional Director and or senior management is collated at pre-MOB meetings to inform the of the underlying business unit, is responsible for discussions at the MOB.
These meetings are an establishing processes and procedures to capture, opportunity for the Divisional Directors to manage, and report on the risks for which they assess the performance of their own constituent are accountable in accordance with the agreed business units and enable early escalation of any Group framework.
business opportunities or challenges to the Group Executive Board.
Capita operates the three lines of defence model, with line management responsible for the first line, The benefit of MOB and its associated processes is Risk and Compliance for the second line, and Group the internal transparency it provides from Board level Internal Audit for the third line.
down to the performance of the Groups businesses and allows opportunities to be exploited quicker and issues resolved faster.
Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 38 Group Internal Audit: provides the Board, the Audit Managing our growth Our risk appetite committee and all levels of management with an The robust identification, assessment and Managed risk taking is an important ingredient in objective opinion on the results of its reviews.
Its role completion of new contracts and business our growth and success.
Capita has agreed a Risk is to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the acquisitions are key to our controlled growth.
Appetite Statement which covers the appetite and Groups governance, processes, controls and risk We recognise that the key to building value for the tolerance for risk in the following areas: management in implementing agreed strategies as Group is ensuring that our significant new business strategic including new business and acquisitions defined by the Board.
The Audit Committee developments have been subject to appropriate approves the Group Internal Audit plan and may investments financial, operational and risk due diligence.
review any aspect of its work.
Group Internal Audit project and change We therefore conduct Black Hat' reviews where reports regularly to the Audit Committee on advisory management assess in more depth an acquisition, significant issues, risks and themes arising from its bid or contract renewal, and consider its commercial, credit work together with a summary of managements financial and operational fit within the Group and progress in implementing its recommendations.
market its pricing and risk profile.
As a fundamental part of It is independent of the activities which it reviews liquidity the overall bid or acquisition process, the Black Hat and has an independent reporting line to the Audit insurance review determines whether opportunities should be Committee and also, for the financial services progressed and enables management to review any operational and processing businesses, to the Financial Services Risk and bid submissions to prospective clients or third parties.
For administrative purposes, regulatory and legal.
Whilst we consider a large number of opportunities the Group Internal Audit function reports to the The appetite and tolerance for each area is set and to develop and grow the Group, these processes Group Finance Director.
Group Internal Audit has monitored by the Board, in accordance with the Group help us to ensure that we do not pursue free and full access to all activities, records, appetite and tolerance, and this is now being cascaded opportunities where we feel that the risks properties and employees throughout the Group and embedded into all our operating divisions.
The Group Internal Audit At a business unit level the risk appetite is assessed Director has regular meetings with the Chairman of through the setting of thresholds and target level of the Audit Committee.
residual risk, within the parameters agreed by the Group Board, and is the responsibility of the units senior management team, reviewed by the Divisional Risk Committees on an ongoing basis.
The Group Risk Appetite Statement is reviewed regularly to ensure that it both reflects the Boards view on strategic risk and any external changes which may alter the Groups risk appetite.
Our business Our strategy in operation Capita plc 39 Principal risk categories, potential impacts and examples of mitigations Key risk categories Potential impacts Mitigating activities include Adverse effect on financial performance and Financial performance of each business unit is monitored monthly Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous monitoring and Financial brand reputation.
Reputation risk and financial loss e. g. disruption to Rigorous risk-based due diligence processes for the selection of key Delegates and supply chain: service interruption.
delegates and wider counterparties monitoring counterparty failure Failure to meet contractual service level agreements Operating frameworks and business resilience arrangements in place Business resilience arrangements in place Operational risks Financial penalties Operating performance indicators reviewed by line management Risk-based independent assurance Potential loss of contracts Risk committees and Group Board escalation as appropriate Centralised proactive and reactive PR team provides full issues Brand reputation impacted.
Risk based independent assurance management communications support Planned synergies not achieved Rigorous risk-based due diligence Robust integration and transition process.
Acquisitions and Adverse impact on financial growth and performance Black Hat process: organic growth Financial penalties.
Fit with strategy and pricing is subject to review and approval by the Group Board Appropriate contractual terms to ensure fair risk reward profile Weaker economic conditions are a key driver for Focus on 10 diverse public and private sector markets Supply of services that support essential client functions rather than Economic landscape outsourcing, however, extreme economic uncertainty Focus on widening scope of existing contracts to help clients save money discretionary activities can result in a delay in buying decisions and lower Initiatives to increase the efficiency of Group operations.
discretionary spend across some market segments.
Lack of appropriate resources may lead to inability to Training and development Succession planning Attract and develop and execute business plans Continual development through objective setting and appraisals Comprehensive vetting process in line with roles.
retain employees Poor employee morale Competitive incentive and bonus plans Competitive disadvantage.
Contractual and regulatory penalties Appropriate policies and procedures Swift adoption of Group policies and protocols by newly Loss of sensitive or Adverse media comment and reputation impact Robust information security framework, including policies and processes acquired businesses confidential data on brand.
Escalation to risk committees and subsidiary boards Sharing of best practice and issues through cross-Group forums Training and monitoring programme across businesses Regular monitoring through risk-based audits and follow-up of actions Centralised proactive and reactive PR team.
Failure to support core services and business needs Adoption, implementation and audit of industry recognised controls IT risks Inability to provide adequate disaster recovery services Regular and documented disaster recovery tests Failure to protect client and Capita data.
Regular audit of services and systems to validate adequacy of protective controls and processes Potential for civil and criminal penalties for business Appropriate policies and procedures in place including a speak up policy Risk assessments of vulnerabilities Fraud, bribery and and or senior officers Anti corruption culture and a zero tolerance approach with a robust Monitoring and audit corruption Potential prohibition from bidding for public sector disciplinary process Centralised proactive and reactive PR team.
contracts in EU Media comment and reputation impact.
Non-compliance with the requirements of our Appropriate policies and procedures Risk-based assurance and actions for improvement Regulatory regulatory bodies in the UK or overseas including the Monitoring by Risk, Internal Audit and Regulatory Compliance teams Independent reporting to Group Audit Committee and Group Financial landscape Financial Services Authority in respect of regulated UK Escalation of risks to risk committees and subsidiary boards Services Risk & Governance Forum.
financial services business Regulatory, financial and contractual penalties Adverse impact on reputation.
Non-compliance with health and safety regulations Rigorously applied health and safety policy and processes Comprehensive Group wide health and safety audits undertaken twice Health and safety Adverse impact on wellbeing of our employees.
Health and safety training a year.
As a low impact company our key environmental Raising awareness of environmental issues and Group Environmental management system in place Environmental impacts are energy use, business travel, resource use sustainability initiatives Environmental site audits carried out twice a year and waste management which we manage proactively.
Continue to measure and manage our carbon footprint and achieve Reduction of paper use and increase in recycling.
