RBS GROUP 2012 Our approach to risk management An integral role for Risk Management This establishes the level and type of risks Key developments in 2012 Risk Management is essential to making that we are able and willing to take to meet our In 2012, we continued to strengthen our RBS safe and sustainable.
A strong culture strategic objectives and our wider obligations approach to risk management amidst a of risk management and control provides to stakeholders.
challenging and ever-changing external the foundation for this.
Areas of progress included: We cascade and embed this risk appetite refining our understanding of the risks we Financial strength and resilience are at the across the Group, allowing: face and their scale: heart of our Strategic Plan.
The plan targets a each business to understand its acceptable reducing our exposures in line with our credit rating in line with those of our strongest levels of risk: and objective of being safe and sustainable: peers, without government support.
commercial strategies to be aligned with improving the quality of our data, including the use of available financial resources.
forward-looking measures: In 2009, the Group Board set four strategic developing a framework for the effective risk objectives aligned to the Strategic Plan.
By setting a clear risk appetite and embedding management of our conduct risk: a strong risk culture throughout our businesses, strengthening our credit risk and country risk These are to: we can identify, measure and control risk appetite and management frameworks and maintain capital adequacy: exposures and respond effectively to shocks.
ensuring consistent application across the deliver stable earnings growth: Group: and ensure stable and efficient access to further realigning our Group Policy Framework funding and liquidity: and to our business model and continuing maintain stakeholder confidence.
These strategic risk objectives link the Groups In the table on the following page, we summarise business strategy to the way we set risk the risks we face.
We provide a more detailed appetite and manage risk in our business.
discussion of developments in 2012 in the We set risk appetite at Group level.
Risk and balance sheet management section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Day-to-day risk management Key frameworks and limits Key risk appetite measures Strategic risk objectives This is how we bring the Strategic Plan to life in our management of risk.
19 ARSFS12 ESS READING & BUS STRAT AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 09:03 Page 20 OUR BUSINESS AND OUR STRATEGY The main risk types facing the Group, which are covered by the risk appetite framework, are shown below: Risk type Definition Features Capital adequacy risk The risk that the Group has insufficient capital.
Potential to disrupt the business model and stop normal functions of the Group.
Potential to cause the Group to fail to meet the supervisory requirements of regulators.
Liquidity The risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial Significantly driven by credit risk losses.
and funding risk liabilities as they fall due.
Credit risk The risk that the Group will incur losses due to the Loss characteristics vary materially across portfolios.
including counterparty failure of a customer to meet its obligation to settle Significant link between losses and the macroeconomic credit risk outstanding amounts.
Can include concentration risk the risk of loss due to the concentration of credit risk to a specific product asset class, sector or counterparty.
Country risk The risk of material losses arising from significant Can arise from sovereign events, economic events, country-specific events.
political events, natural disasters or conflicts.
Potential to affect parts of the Groups credit portfolio that are directly or indirectly linked to the country in question.
Insurance risk The risk of financial loss through fluctuations in the Frequent small losses which are material in aggregate.
timing, frequency and or severity of insured events, Infrequent large material losses.
relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
Market risk The risk arising from fluctuations in interest rates, Frequent small losses which are material in aggregate.
exchange rates, credit spreads, equity prices, Infrequent large material losses due to stress events.
commodity prices, and risk-related factors such as market volatilities.
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed Frequent small losses.
processes or systems, from inappropriate human Infrequent material losses.
actions, or from external events.
Regulatory risk The risk arising from non-compliance with regulatory Adverse impacts on strategy, capital, business models requirements, regulatory change or regulators and operational effectiveness.
Financial cost of adapting to changes in laws, rules and regulations or of penalties for non-compliance.
Conduct risk The risk that the conduct of the Group and its staff Arises from breaches of regulatory rules or laws by individual towards its customers, or within the markets in which employees or as a result of the Groups retail or wholesale it operates, leads to reputational damage and or market conduct.
It may also arise from the failure to meet customers or regulators expectations of the Group.
Reputational risk The risk of brand damage arising from financial Can arise from actions taken or not taken by the Group or and non-financial events due to failure to meet from its wider conduct, policies and practices.
stakeholders expectations of the Groups conduct Can be detrimental to the business, including an inability to build or and performance.
sustain customer relationships, low staff morale or reduced access to funding sources.
Business risk The risk of losses as a result of adverse variance May be caused by internal factors such as pricing, sales volume in the Groups revenues and or costs relative to its and input costs, and or by external factors such as exposure to business plan and strategy.
macroeconomic, regulatory and industry risks.
Pension risk The risk that the Group will have to make Funding position can be volatile due to the uncertainty additional contributions to its defined benefit of future investment returns and the projected value of pension schemes.
