GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 503 RBS GROUP 2012 Risk factors In particular, should the scope and severity of the adverse economic Set out below are certain risk factors which could adversely affect the conditions currently experienced by a number of EU member states and Group's future results, its financial condition and prospects and cause elsewhere worsen or economic recovery remain stagnant for an extended them to be materially different from what is expected.
The factors period, particularly in the Groups key markets, the risks faced by the discussed below and elsewhere in this report should not be regarded as Group would be exacerbated.
Developments relating to the current a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and economic conditions and unfavourable financial environment, including uncertainties facing the Group.
those discussed above, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and Macro-economic and geopolitical risks prospects.
The Groups businesses and performance can be negatively affected by actual or perceived global economic and financial market conditions The Group has significant exposure to the continuing economic crisis in The Groups businesses and performance are affected by local and Europe global economic conditions, perceptions of those conditions and future In Europe, countries such as Ireland, Italy, Greece, Portugal and Spain economic prospects.
The outlook for the global economy over the near to have been particularly affected by the recent macroeconomic and medium-term remains challenging and many forecasts predict at best financial conditions.
Although the risk of sovereign default reduced in only stagnant or modest levels of gross domestic product GDP growth 2012 due to actions of the European Central Bank ECB and the EU, the across a number of the Groups key markets over that period, including, risk of default remains.
This default risk raises concerns, particularly in particular, the UK, Ireland and the US.
Stagnant or weak GDP growth about the contagion effect such a default would have on other EU is also expected in the European Monetary Union EMU where a economies, including the UK economy, as well as the ongoing viability of relatively robust German economy has been offset by austerity measures the euro currency and the EMU.
As a result, yields on the sovereign debt in many EMU countries, initiated in response to increased sovereign debt of many EU member states have remained volatile.
The EU, the ECB, the risk, which have resulted in weak economic and GDP growth, particularly International Monetary Fund and various national authorities have in Spain, Italy and France.
implemented measures intended to address systemic stresses in the Eurozone.
The effectiveness of these actions is not assured and the The Groups businesses and performance are also affected by financial possibility remains that the contagion effect spreads to the UK, that the market conditions.
Although capital and credit markets around the world euro could be abandoned as a currency by one or more countries that were more stable during 2012, they remained volatile and subject to have already adopted its use, or in an extreme scenario, that the intermittent and prolonged disruptions.
In particular, increasingly during abandonment of the euro could result in the dissolution of the EMU.
This the second and third quarters of 2012, continuing risk of sovereign default would lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more relating to certain EU member states had a negative impact on capital EMU member states.
The effects on the UK, European and global economies of the potential These challenging economic and market conditions create a difficult dissolution of the EMU, exit of one or more EU member states from the operating environment for the Groups businesses, which is characterised EMU and the redenomination of financial instruments from the euro to a by: different currency, are impossible to predict fully.
However, if any such events were to occur they would likely: x downward pressure on asset prices and on credit availability and upward pressure on funding costs, and such conditions continue to x result in significant market dislocation: impact asset recovery rates and the credit quality of the Groups businesses, customers and counterparties, including sovereigns: x heighten counterparty risk: x alone or in combination with regulatory changes or actions of market x result in downgrades of credit ratings for European borrowers, giving participants, reduced activity levels, additional write-downs and rise to increases in credit spreads and decreases in security values: impairment charges and lower profitability, and may restrict the ability of the Group to access funding and liquidity: and x disrupt and adversely affect the economic activity of the UK and other European markets: and x central bank actions to engender economic growth which have resulted in a prolonged period of low interest rates constraining, x adversely affect the management of market risk and in particular through margin compression and low returns on assets, the interest asset and liability management due, in part, to redenomination of income earned on the Groups interest earning assets.
financial assets and liabilities and the potential for mismatch.
503 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 504 Additional information continued Risk factors continued regulatory landscape to which the Group is subject.
In addition, in The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse January 2013, the UK Government announced the possibility of a effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations and referendum on the UKs membership of the EU, which would only take prospects.
Although the effect of either Scottish independence or any referendum on the UKs EU membership, if either In particular, the Group has significant exposure to customers and were to occur, is not possible to predict fully, it could have a material counterparties in the Eurozone at 31 December 2012 principally adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, results of Germany 48 billion, The Netherlands 26 billion, Ireland 40 billion, operations and prospects.
France 19 billion and Spain 12 billion which includes sovereign debt exposures that have been, and may in the future be, affected by The Group and its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of full restructuring of their terms, principal, interest and maturity.
The Groups nationalisation Eurozone sovereign debt exposures resulted in the Group recognising an Under the Banking Act 2009, substantial powers have been granted to impairment loss of 1,099 million in 2011 in respect of its holding of HM Treasury, the Bank of England and the FSA together, the Greek government bonds.
Similar write downs may occur in future Authorities as part of a special resolution regime.
At 31 December 2012, the Groups Eurozone sovereign debt the Authorities to deal with and stabilise certain deposit-taking UK exposure amounted to 678 million including aggregate exposure of incorporated institutions that are failing, or are likely to fail, to satisfy the 51 million to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain and Portugal.
threshold conditions within the meaning of section 41 of the FSMA, which are the conditions that a relevant entity must satisfy in order to The Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and its obtain its authorisation to perform regulated activities.
The special business and results of operations may be adversely affected resolution regime consists of three stabilisation options: i transfer of all The competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions in the or part of the business of the relevant entity and or the securities of the UK, the US and throughout the rest of Europe is subject to rapid change relevant entity to a private sector purchaser, ii transfer of all or part of and recent regulatory and legal changes are likely to result in new market the business of the relevant entity to a bridge bank wholly owned by the participants and changed competitive dynamics in certain key areas, Bank of England and iii temporary public ownership nationalisation of such as in retail banking in the UK.
The competitive landscape in the UK the relevant entity.
If HM Treasury decides to take the Group into will be particularly influenced by the recommendations on competition temporary public ownership pursuant to the powers granted under the included in the final report of the Independent Commission on Banking Banking Act, it may take various actions in relation to any securities ICB, and the UK Governments implementation of the without the consent of holders of the securities.
In order to compete effectively, certain financial institutions may seek to consolidate their businesses or assets with other HM Treasury or UK Financial Investments Limited UKFI on its behalf parties.
This consolidation, in combination with the introduction of new may be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over the Group entrants into the markets in which the Group operates is likely to increase and any proposed offer or sale of its interests may affect the price of competitive pressures on the Group.
securities issued by the Group The UK Government, through HM Treasury, currently holds 65.3% of the In addition, certain competitors may have access to lower cost funding issued ordinary share capital of the Group.
On 22 December 2009, the and or be able to attract deposits on more favourable terms than the Group issued 25.5 billion of B Shares to the UK Government.
The B Group and may have stronger and more efficient operations.
Shares are convertible, at the option of the holder at any time, into Furthermore, the Groups competitors may be better able to attract and ordinary shares.
The UK Government has agreed that it shall not retain clients and key employees, which may have a negative impact on exercise the rights of conversion in respect of the B Shares if and to the the Groups relative performance and future prospects.
In addition, future extent that following any such conversion it would hold more than 75% of disposals and restructurings by the Group and the compensation the total issued shares in the Group.
Any breach of this agreement could structure and restrictions imposed on the Group may also have an impact result in the delisting of the Group from the Official List of the UK Listing on its ability to compete effectively.
These and other changes to the Authority and potentially other exchanges where its securities are competitive landscape could adversely affect the Groups business, currently listed and traded.
HM Treasury or the UKFI on its behalf may margins, profitability, financial condition and prospects.
sell all or a part of the ordinary shares that it owns at any time.
Any offers or sale of a substantial number of ordinary shares or securities The Group is subject to political risks convertible or exchangeable into ordinary shares by or on behalf of HM The Group and the Royal Bank, its principal operating subsidiary, are Treasury, or an expectation that it may undertake such an offer or sale, both headquartered and incorporated in Scotland.
The Scottish could negatively affect prevailing market prices for securities issued by Government intends to hold a referendum in 2014 on the issue of the Group.
Scottish independence from the UK.
Although the outcome of such referendum is uncertain, Scottish independence could affect Scotlands status in the EU and significantly impact the fiscal, monetary and 504 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 505 RBS GROUP 2012 In addition, UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder relationship with downs or realise increased impairment charges, which may have a the Group and, although HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and respect the commercial decisions of the Group and that the Group will capital ratios.
In addition, steep falls in perceived or actual asset values continue to have its own independent board of directors and have been accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, as management team determining its own strategy, should its current exemplified by losses arising out of asset-backed collateralised debt intentions change, HM Treasurys position as a majority shareholder and obligations, residential mortgage-backed securities and the leveraged UKFIs position as manager of this shareholding means that HM loan market.
In dislocated markets, hedging and other risk management Treasury or UKFI may be able to exercise a significant degree of strategies may not be as effective as they are in normal market influence over, among other things, the election of directors.
The manner conditions due in part to the decreasing credit quality of hedge in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises HM Treasurys rights as majority counterparties.
shareholder could give rise to conflict between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests of other shareholders.
The Board has a duty to The financial performance of the Group has been, and continues to be, promote the success of the Group for the benefit of its members as a materially affected by deteriorations in borrower and counterparty credit whole.
quality and further deteriorations could arise due to prevailing economic and market conditions and legal and regulatory developments The Group is subject to other global risks The Group has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, By virtue of the Groups global presence, the Group is exposed to risks and risks arising from actual or perceived changes in credit quality and arising out of geopolitical events, such as the existence of trade barriers, the recoverability of monies due from borrowers and counterparties are the implementation of exchange controls and other measures taken by inherent in a wide range of the Groups businesses.
In particular, the sovereign governments that can hinder economic or financial activity Group has significant exposure to certain individual counterparties in levels.
Furthermore, unfavourable political, military or diplomatic events, weakened business sectors and geographic markets and also has armed conflict, pandemics and terrorist acts and threats, and the concentrated country exposure in the UK, the US and across the rest of response to them by governments could also adversely affect levels of Europe principally Germany, The Netherlands, Ireland and France at economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the Groups business, 31 December 2012 credit risk assets in the UK were 316 billion, in North financial condition and results of operations.
America 101 billion and in Western Europe excluding the UK 147 billion : and within certain business sectors, namely personal finance, Market and credit related risks financial institutions and commercial real estate at 31 December 2012 The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and its future residential and personal lending amounted to 182 billion, lending to earnings and financial condition may continue to be, materially affected financial institutions was 114 billion and commercial real estate lending by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions was 63 billion.
The Group expects its exposure to the UK to increase Severe market events have resulted in the Group recording large writeproportionately as its business becomes more concentrated in the UK, downs on its credit market exposures in recent years: particularly early in with exposures generally being reduced in other parts of its business as it the financial crisis 10.1 billion in 2008 and 6.2 billion in 2009.
deterioration in economic and financial market conditions or continuing weak economic growth could lead to further impairment charges and The credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties is write-downs.
Moreover, market volatility and illiquidity and the impacted by prevailing economic and market conditions and by the legal assumptions, judgements and estimates in relation to such matters that and regulatory landscape in their respective markets.
may change over time and may ultimately not turn out to be accurate make it difficult to value certain of the Groups exposures.
Valuations in A further deterioration in economic and market conditions or changes to future periods, reflecting, among other things, then prevailing market legal or regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower and counterparty conditions and changes in the credit ratings of certain of the Groups credit quality and also impact the Groups ability to enforce contractual assets, may result in significant changes in the fair values of the Groups security rights.
In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated when exposures, even in respect of exposures, such as credit market the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices not exposures, for which the Group has previously recorded write-downs.
In sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that addition, the value ultimately realised by the Group may be materially is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur during periods of different from the current or estimated fair value.
As part of the Groups illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as those experienced in strategy it has materially reduced the size of its balance sheet mainly recent years.
This has been particularly the case with respect to large through the sale and run-off of non-core assets.
The Groups assets that parts of the Groups commercial real estate portfolio.
Any such losses remain in its Non-Core division may be more difficult to sell and could be could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and subject to further write-downs or, if sold, realised losses.
Any of these financial condition.
factors could require the Group to recognise additional significant write- 505 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 506 Additional information continued Risk factors continued Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, Concerns about, or a default by, one financial institution could lead to equity and commodity prices, basis, volatility and correlation risks and significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by other financial other market factors have significantly affected and will continue to affect institutions, as the commercial and financial soundness of many financial the Groups business and results of operations institutions may be closely related as a result of credit, trading, clearing Some of the most significant market risks the Group faces are interest and other relationships.
Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity and commodity prices questions about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity and basis, volatility and correlation risks.
Changes in interest rate levels problems and losses for, or defaults by, the Group.
This systemic risk or extended periods of low interest rates, yield curves which remain may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, depressed and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges with which the between lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be Group interacts on a daily basis, all of which could have a material heightened during periods of liquidity stress.
Changes in currency rates, adverse effect on the Groups access to liquidity or could result in losses particularly in the sterling-US dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial affect the value of assets, liabilities, income and expenses denominated condition, results of operations and prospects.
in foreign currencies and the reported earnings of the Groups non-UK subsidiaries and may affect the Groups reported consolidated financial In certain jurisdictions in which the Group does business, particularly condition or its income from foreign exchange dealing.
For accounting Ireland, there has been disruption during recent years in the ability of purposes, the Group values some of its issued debt, such as debt certain financial institutions to complete foreclosure proceedings in a securities, at the current market price.
Factors affecting the current timely manner or at all, including as a result of interventions by certain market price for such debt, such as the credit spreads of the Group, may states and local governments.
This disruption has lengthened the time to result in a change to the fair value of such debt, which is recognised in complete foreclosures, increased the backlog of repossessed properties the income statement as a profit or loss.
and, in certain cases, has resulted in the invalidation of purported foreclosures.
The performance of financial markets affects bond, equity and commodity prices, which has caused, and may in the future cause, changes in the The trends and risks affecting borrower and counterparty credit quality value of the Groups investment and trading portfolios.
As part of its have caused, and in the future may cause, the Group to experience ongoing derivatives operations, the Group also faces significant basis, further and accelerated impairment charges, increased repurchase volatility and correlation risks, the occurrence of which are also impacted demands, higher costs, additional write-downs and losses for the Group by the factors noted above.
and an inability to engage in routine funding transactions.
While the Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the Group has and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is purchased depends on the value of the underlying assets and the difficult, particularly in the current environment, to predict with accuracy financial condition of the insurers and counterparties changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects The Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative that such changes could have on the Groups financial performance and contracts, mainly credit default swaps CDSs, and other credit business operations.
derivatives, each of which are carried at fair value.
The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to the risk of default by the In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible for underlying counterparties, depends on the valuation and the perceived contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other credit risk of the instrument against which protection has been bought.
authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their Many market counterparties have been adversely affected by their obligations to customers exposure to residential mortgage linked and corporate credit products, In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS was whether synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived established under the FSMA and is the UKs statutory fund of last resort creditworthiness may deteriorate rapidly.
If the financial condition of these for customers of authorised financial services firms.
The FSCS can pay counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness deteriorates, compensation to customers if a firm is unable or likely to be unable, to the Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the credit pay claims against it and may be required to make payments either in protection bought from these counterparties under the CDSs.
The Group connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the also recognises any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit bank insolvency procedures under the Banking Act.
The FSCS is funded derivatives.
Any such adjustments or fair value changes may have a by levies on firms authorised by the FSA, including the Group.
In the material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of event that the FSCS raises funds from the authorised firms, raises those operations.
funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by such firms, the associated costs to the Group may have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had accrued 119 million for its share of estimated FSCS levies for the 2012 2013 and 2013 2014 FSCS years.
506 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 507 RBS GROUP 2012 In addition, to the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates improved during 2012 in part as a result of measures taken by the ECB, have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, contributory or and the Groups overall liquidity position remained strong, certain reimbursement schemes such as in the US with the Federal Deposit European banks, in particular from the peripheral countries of Spain, Insurance Corporation, the Group may make further provisions and may Portugal, Greece, Italy and Ireland, remained reliant on central banks as incur additional costs and liabilities, which may have an adverse impact one of their principal sources of liquidity and central banks increased their on its financial condition and results of operations.
support to banks with the ECB providing significant short and long-term liquidity in the last few months of 2011 and in 2012.
Although these The Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension efforts had a positive impact, global credit markets remain volatile.
schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover potential obligations The market perception of bank credit risk has changed significantly as a The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for result of the financial crisis and banks that are deemed by the market to past and a number of current employees.
Pension risk is the risk that the be riskier have had to issue debt at a premium.
Any uncertainty regarding assets of the Groups various defined benefit pension schemes which are the perception of credit risk across financial institutions may lead to long-term in nature do not fully match the timing and amount of the reductions in levels of interbank lending and associated term maturities schemes liabilities, as a result of which the Group is required or chooses and may restrict the Groups access to traditional sources of liquidity or to make additional contributions to the schemes.
Pension scheme increase the costs of accessing such liquidity.
liabilities vary with changes to long-term interest rates, inflation, pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members as well as The Groups liquidity management focuses, among other things, on changes in applicable legislation.
The schemes assets comprise maintaining a diverse and appropriate funding strategy for its assets in investment portfolios that are held to meet projected liabilities to the line with the Groups wider strategic plan.
The Group has, at times, been scheme members.
Risk arises from the schemes because the value of required to rely on shorter-term and overnight funding with a consequent these asset portfolios, returns from them and any additional future reduction in overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to liquidity contributions to the schemes, may be less than expected and because schemes provided by central banks.
Such schemes require the pledging there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of of assets as collateral and changes to asset valuations or eligibility the schemes liabilities.
In these circumstances, the Group could be criteria can negatively impact the available assets and reduce available obliged, or may choose, to make additional contributions to the schemes, liquidity access particularly during periods of stress when such lines may and during recent periods, the Group has voluntarily made such be needed most.
Although conditions have improved, there have been contributions to the schemes.
Given the recent economic and financial recent periods where corporate and financial institution counterparties market difficulties and the prospect that they may continue over the near have reduced their credit exposures to banks and other financial and medium term, the Group may experience increasing pension deficits institutions, limiting the availability of these sources of funding.
Increased or be required or elect to make further contributions to its pension competition for funding during 2013 due to the significant levels of schemes and such deficits and contributions could be significant and refinancing expected to be required by financial institutions, may also have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operations or financial reduce the level of funding available from these sources.
The most recent funding valuation, at 31 March 2010 was circumstances, the Group may need to seek funds from alternative agreed during 2011.
It showed the value of liabilities exceeded the value sources potentially at higher costs than has previously been the case or of assets by 3.5 billion at 31 March 2010, a ratio of assets to liabilities of may be required to consider disposals of other assets not previously 84%.
identified for disposal to reduce its funding commitments.
In order to eliminate this deficit, the Group will pay additional The Group relies increasingly on customer deposits to meet a contributions each year over the period 2011 until 2018.
Contributions considerable portion of its funding and it is actively seeking to increase started at 375 million per annum in 2011, will increase to 400 million the proportion of its funding represented by customer deposits.
The level per annum in 2013 and from 2016 onwards will be further increased in of deposits may fluctuate due to certain factors outside the Groups line with price inflation.
These contributions are in addition to the regular control, such as a loss of confidence, increasing competitive pressures annual contributions of around 250 million for future accrual of benefits.
for retail customer deposits or the encouraged or mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or central bank depositors, which could Funding, liquidity and capital related risks result in a significant outflow of deposits within a short period of time.
The Groups ability to meet its obligations including its funding There is currently heavy competition among UK banks for retail customer commitments depends on the Groups ability to access sources of deposits, which has increased the cost of procuring new deposits and liquidity and funding impacted the Groups ability to grow its deposit base and such Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, competition is expected to continue.
An inability to grow, or any material including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in decrease in, the Groups deposits could, particularly if accompanied by banking operations and can be heightened by a number of factors, one of the other factors described above, have a materially adverse including an over reliance on a particular source of wholesale funding impact on the Groups ability to satisfy its liquidity needs.
including, for example, short-term and overnight funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market dislocation and The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material major disasters.
Credit markets worldwide, including interbank markets, adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of have experienced severe reductions in liquidity and term-funding during operations.
prolonged periods in recent years.
Although credit markets generally 507 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 508 Additional information continued Risk factors continued affect the capital requirements of the Groups operations in the US.
As The Groups business performance could be adversely affected if its the implementation of the ICB recommendations are the subject of draft capital is not managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital legislation not yet adopted and the Federal Reserves recent proposals adequacy and liquidity requirements are in a comment period, the Group cannot predict the impact such rules Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability to will have on the Groups overall capital requirements or how they will operate its businesses, and to pursue its strategy of returning to affect the Groups compliance with applicable capital and loss standalone strength.
The Group is required by regulators in the UK, the absorbency requirements.
US and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated activities to maintain adequate capital resources.
The maintenance of adequate To the extent the Group has estimated the indicative impact that Basel III capital is also necessary for the Groups financial flexibility in the face of reforms may have on its risk-weighted assets and capital ratios, such continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global economy and estimates are preliminary and subject to uncertainties and may change.
specifically in its core UK, US and European markets.
In particular, the estimates assume mitigating actions will be taken by the Group such as deleveraging of legacy positions and securitisations, The Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions package of reforms to including Non-Core, as well as other actions being taken to fide-risk the regulatory capital framework includes a material increase to the market and counterparty exposures, which may not occur as anticipated, minimum Core Tier 1 common equity requirement and the total Tier 1 in a timely manner, or at all.
capital requirement, a capital conservation buffer and a countercyclical buffer.
In addition, a leverage ratio is to be introduced, together with a The Basel Committee changes and other future changes to capital liquidity coverage ratio and a net stable funding ratio.
Further measures adequacy and liquidity requirements in the UK, the US and in other may include bail-in debt which may impact existing as well as future jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including any application of issues of debt and expose them to the risk of conversion into equity increasingly stringent stress case scenarios by the regulators in the UK, and or write-down of principal amount.
Such measures would be in the US and other jurisdictions in which the Group undertakes regulated addition to proposals for the write-off of Tier 1 and Tier 2 debt and its activities, may require the Group to raise additional Tier 1 including Core possible conversion into ordinary shares if a bank becomes non-viable.
Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital by way of further issuances of securities, and will result in existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities issued by the Group The Basel Committee has proposed that global systemically important ceasing to count towards the Groups regulatory capital, either at the financial institutions GSIFIs be subject to an additional common equity same level as present or at all.
The requirement to raise additional Core Tier 1 capital requirement, depending on a banks systemic importance.
Tier 1 capital, which could be mandated by the Groups regulators, could The Group has been identified by the Financial Stability Board as a have a number of negative consequences for the Group and its GSIFI.
As a result the Group was required to meet resolution planning shareholders, including impairing the Groups ability to pay dividends on, requirements by the end of 2012 as well as have additional loss or make other distributions in respect of, ordinary shares and diluting the absorption capacity.
In addition, GSIFIs will be subjected to more ownership of existing shareholders of the Group.
If the Group is unable to intensive and effective supervision.
The additional capital requirements raise the requisite Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital, it may be required to reduce are to be applied to GSIFIs identified in 2014 the Financial Stability further the amount of its risk-weighted assets and engage in the disposal Board will update its list every three years and phased in beginning in of core and other non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely 2016. basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to the Group.
The Basel III rules are due to be phased in between 1 January 2013 and Pursuant to the acquisition and contingent capital agreement entered into 2019 but have not yet been approved by the EU and their incorporation between the Royal Bank and HM Treasury on 29 November 2009, the into European and national law has, accordingly, not yet taken place.
On Group will be subject to restrictions on payments on its hybrid capital 20 July 2011, the European Commission published a legislative package instruments should its Core Tier 1 ratio fall below 6% or if it would fall of proposals to implement the changes with a new Directive and below 6% as a result of such payment.
At 31 December 2012, the Regulation collectively known as CRD IV.
The final form of CRD IV is Groups Tier 1 and Core Tier 1 capital ratios were 12.4% and 10.3%, still under negotiation and the start-date for its implementation is still not respectively, calculated in accordance with FSA requirements.
Any known with full implementation still planned by 1 January 2019.
The change that limits the Groups ability to manage effectively its balance current proposals would allow the UK to implement more stringent sheet and capital resources going forward including, for example, prudential requirements than envisaged under Basel III.
reductions in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in risk-weighted assets, regulatory changes, actions The ICB recommendations and the UK Governments response by regulators, delays in the disposal of certain assets or the inability to supporting such recommendations include proposals to increase capital syndicate loans as a result of market conditions, a growth in unfunded and loss absorbency to levels that exceed the proposals under Basel pension exposures or otherwise or to access funding sources, could III CRD IV.
These requirements, as well as the other recommendations of have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory the ICB, are expected to be phased in between 2015 and 2019.
Federal Reserve has also proposed changes in how it will regulate the US operations of foreign banking operations such as the Group that may 508 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 509 RBS GROUP 2012 The Groups borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital markets and ratings may drop, its ability to lend and access funding will be further its liquidity depend significantly on its and the UK Governments credit limited and its cost of funding may increase.
ratings The credit ratings of RBSG, the Royal Bank and other Group members The regulatory capital treatment of certain deferred tax assets recognised have been subject to change and may change in the future, which could by the Group depends on there being no adverse changes to regulatory impact their cost of, access to and sources of financing and liquidity.
A requirements number of UK and other European financial institutions, including RBSG, There is currently no restriction in respect of deferred tax assets the Royal Bank and other Group members, were downgraded during the recognised by the Group for regulatory purposes.
Changes in regulatory course of 2011 and 2012 in connection with a review of systemic support capital rules may restrict the amount of deferred tax assets that can be assumptions incorporated into bank ratings and the likelihood, in the case recognised and such changes could lead to a reduction in the Groups of UK banks, that the UK Government is more likely in the future to make Core Tier 1 capital ratio.
In particular, on 16 December 2010, the Basel greater use of its resolution tools to allow burden sharing with Committee published the Basel III rules setting out certain changes to bondholders, and in connection with a general review of rating agencies capital requirements which include provisions limiting the ability of certain methodologies.
Rating agencies continue to evaluate the rating deferred tax assets to be recognised when calculating the common equity methodologies applicable to UK and European financial institutions and component of Tier 1 capital.
CRD IV which will implement Basel III in the any change in such rating agencies methodologies could materially EU includes similar limitations.
The implementation of the Basel III adversely affect the credit ratings of Group companies.
Any further restrictions on recognition of deferred tax assets within the common reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of RBSG or one of equity component of Tier 1 are subject to a phased-in deduction starting its principal subsidiaries particularly the Royal Bank would increase its on 1 January 2014, to be fully effective by 1 January 2018. borrowing costs, require the Group to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of customer deposits, and may Risks to implementation of Group strategy also limit the Groups access to capital and money markets and trigger The Groups ability to implement its strategic plan depends on the additional collateral requirements in derivatives contracts and other success of the Groups refocus on its core strengths and its balance secured funding arrangements.
At 31 December 2012, a simultaneous sheet reduction programme one notch long-term and associated short-term downgrade in the credit As a result of the global economic and financial crisis that began in 2008 ratings of RBSG and the Royal Bank by the three main ratings agencies and the changed global economic outlook, the Group is engaged in a would have required the Group to post estimated additional collateral of financial and core business restructuring which is focused on achieving 9 billion, without taking account of mitigating action by management.
appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these changed circumstances, reducing reliance on wholesale funding and lowering exposure to capitalAny downgrade in the UK Governments credit ratings could adversely intensive businesses.
A key part of this restructuring is the programme affect the credit ratings of Group companies and may have the effects announced in February 2009 to run-down and sell the Groups non-core noted above.
In December 2012, Standard & Poors placed the UKs AAA assets and businesses and the continued review of the Groups portfolio credit rating on credit watch, with negative outlook and, in February 2013, to identify further disposals of certain non-core assets and businesses.
Moodys downgraded the UKs credit rating one notch to Aa1.
Credit Assets identified for this purpose and allocated to the Groups Non-Core ratings of RBSG, the Royal Bank, RBS N. V. Ulster Bank Limited and division totalled 258 billion, excluding derivatives, at 31 December 2008.
RBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. are also important to the Group when At 31 December 2012, this total had reduced to 57.4 billion competing in certain markets, such as over-the-counter derivatives.
As a 31 December 2011 - 93.7 billion, excluding derivatives, as further result, any further reductions in the Groups long-term or short-term credit progress was made in business disposals and portfolio sales during the ratings or those of its principal subsidiaries could adversely affect the course of 2012.
This balance sheet reduction programme continues Groups access to liquidity and its competitive position, increase its alongside the disposals under the State Aid restructuring plan approved funding costs and have a material adverse impact on the Groups by the European Commission.
As part of its core business restructuring, earnings, cash flow and financial condition.
during 2012 the Group implemented changes to its wholesale banking operations, including the reorganisation of its wholesale businesses and If the Group is unable to issue the Contingent B Shares to HM Treasury, the exit and downsizing of selected existing activities including cash it may have a material adverse impact on the Groups capital position, equities, corporate banking, equity capital markets, and mergers and liquidity, operating results and future prospects acquisitions.
In the event that the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio declines to below 5 per cent.
until December 2014 HM Treasury is committed to subscribe Because the ability to dispose of assets and the price achieved for such for up to an additional 8 billion of Contingent B Shares if certain disposals will be dependent on prevailing economic and market conditions are met.
If such conditions are not met and are not waived by conditions, which remain challenging, there is no assurance that the HM Treasury, and the Group is unable to issue the Contingent B Shares, Group will be able to sell or run-down as applicable those remaining the Group will be required to find alternative methods for achieving the businesses it is seeking to exit or asset portfolios it is seeking to sell requisite capital ratios.
There can be no assurance that any of these either on favourable economic terms to the Group or at all.
Material tax or alternative methods will be available or would be successful in increasing other contingent liabilities could arise on the disposal of assets and there the Groups capital ratios to the desired or requisite levels.
If the Group is is no assurance that any conditions precedent agreed will be satisfied, or unable to issue the Contingent B Shares, the Groups capital position, consents and approvals required will be obtained in a timely manner, or liquidity, operating results and future prospects will suffer, its credit at all.
There is consequently a risk that the Group may fail to complete such disposals by any agreed longstop date.
509 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 510 Additional information continued Risk factors continued disposals within the agreed timeframes for such disposals, under the The Group may be liable for any deterioration in businesses or portfolios terms of the State Aid approval, a divestiture trustee may be empowered being sold between the announcement of the disposal and its completion, to conduct the disposals, with the mandate to complete the disposal at no which period may be lengthy and may span many months.
the Group may be exposed to certain risks, including risks arising out of ongoing liabilities and obligations, breaches of covenants, Furthermore, if the Group is unable to comply with the terms of the State representations and warranties, indemnity claims, transitional services Aid approval, it could constitute a misuse of aid.
In circumstances where arrangements and redundancy or other transaction related costs.
the European Commission doubts that the Group is complying with the terms of the State Aid approval, it may open a formal investigation.
At the The occurrence of any of the risks described above could negatively conclusion of any such investigation, if the European Commission affect the Groups ability to implement its strategic plan and could have a decided that there had been misuse of aid, it could issue a decision material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, requiring HM Treasury to recover the misused aid, which could have a financial condition, capital ratios and liquidity.
material adverse impact on the Group.
The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the In implementing the State Aid restructuring plan, the Group has lost, and State Aid restructuring plan will continue to lose, existing customers, deposits and other assets both The Group was required to obtain State Aid approval for the aid given to directly through sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the the Group by HM Treasury as part of the placing and open offer Groups business arising from implementing the State Aid restructuring undertaken by the Group in December 2008, the issuance to HM plan and the potential for realising additional associated revenues and Treasury of 25.5 billion of B shares in the capital of the Group which are, margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such subject to certain terms and conditions, convertible into ordinary shares in disposals.
the share capital of the Group and a contingent commitment by HM Treasury to subscribe for up to an additional 8 billion of B Shares if The disposal of Global Merchant Services and RBS Sempra certain conditions are met in addition to the Groups participation in the Commodities reduced the Groups assets by approximately 13.0 billion Asset Protection Scheme APS which has now been terminated.
In that and 2.4 billion, respectively based on total assets immediately prior to context, as part of the terms of the State Aid approval, the Group, disposal.
The quantum of assets and deposits that would be included in together with HM Treasury, agreed the terms of a restructuring plan.
a divestment of the Royal Bank branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland is not certain.
However, at The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the 31 December 2012, this business included approximately 18.8 billion of State Aid restructuring plan, including required asset disposals.
In assets, 21.5 billion of deposits and two million customers.
particular, the Group agreed to undertake a series of measures to be implemented over a four year period from December 2009, including the The implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan may also result in disposal of a number of businesses now completed or substantially disruption to the retained business and give rise to significant strain on completed as well as the disposal of all or a controlling portion of Direct management, employee, operational and financial resources, impacting Line Group DLG, formerly known as RBS Insurance with disposal of its customers and employees and giving rise to separation costs which could entire interest in DLG required by 31 December 2014, and the Royal be substantial.
Bank branch-based business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, along with the direct and other small and mediumThe implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan may result in the size enterprise SME customers and certain mid-corporate customers emergence of one or more new viable competitors or a material across the UK.
While the initial sale of 34.7% of DLG through an IPO was strengthening of one or more of the Groups existing competitors in the completed in October 2012, in respect of the Royal Bank and NatWest Groups markets.
The effect of this on the Groups future competitive branch-based business, the sale process continues to progress following position, revenues and margins is uncertain and there could be an the withdrawal of its original buyer in October 2012. adverse effect on the Groups operations and financial condition and its business generally.
There is no assurance that the price that the Group receives or has received for any assets sold pursuant to the State Aid restructuring plan The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a material will be or has been at a level the Group considers adequate or which it adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial could obtain in circumstances in which the Group was not required to sell condition, capital position and competitive position.
such assets in order to implement the State Aid restructuring plan or if such sale were not subject to the restrictions contained in the terms thereof.
Further, if the Group fails to complete any of the required 510 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 511 RBS GROUP 2012 Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks x requirements to separate retail banking from investment banking: Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial regulation and oversight.
Significant regulatory developments and changes in the x restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within a approach of the Groups key regulators could have a material adverse commercial bank and or a group which contains a commercial bank: effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its results of operations and financial condition x restructuring certain of the Groups non-retail banking activities in The Group is subject to extensive financial services laws, regulations, jurisdictions outside the UK in order to satisfy local capital, liquidity corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies and other prudential requirements: in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
All of these are subject to change, particularly in the current regulatory and market environment, x the design and potential implementation of government mandated where there have been unprecedented levels of government intervention recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes: including nationalisations and injections of government capital, changes to the regulations governing financial institutions and reviews of the x the imposition of government imposed requirements with respect to industry, in the UK, in many other European countries, the US and at the lending to the UK SME market and larger commercial and corporate EU level.
entities and residential mortgage lending: As a result of the environment in which the Group operates, increasing x requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other regulatory focus in certain areas and ongoing and possible future than shareholder value creation: changes in the financial services regulatory landscape including requirements imposed by virtue of the Groups participation in x changes to financial reporting standards including accounting government or regulator-led initiatives, the Group is facing greater standards, corporate governance requirements, corporate regulation and scrutiny in the UK, the US and other countries in which it structures and conduct of business rules: operates including in relation to compliance with anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and other similar sanctions regimes.
x the imposition of restrictions on the Groups ability to compensate its senior management and other employees: Although it is difficult to predict with certainty the effect that recent regulatory developments and heightened levels of public and regulatory x regulations relating to, and enforcement of, anti-bribery, anti-money scrutiny will have on the Group, the enactment of legislation and laundering, anti-terrorism or other similar sanctions regimes: regulations in the UK and the EU, the other parts of Europe in which the Group operates and the US such as the bank levy in the UK, the EU x rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, nationalisation and Recovery and Resolution Directive the RRD or the Dodd-Frank Wall confiscation of assets: Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the US is likely to result in increased capital and liquidity requirements and changes in regulatory x other requirements or policies affecting the Groups profitability, requirements relating to the calculation of capital and liquidity metrics or such as the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, further other prudential rules relating to capital adequacy frameworks, and may restrictions on business growth, product offering, capital, liquidity or result in an increased number of regulatory investigations and pricing: proceedings.
Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on how the Group conducts its business, applicable authorisations and x the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, levies or fees applicable licences, the products and services it offers, its reputation, the value of its to the Groups operations such as the imposition of financial assets, its funding costs and its results of operations and financial activities taxes and changes in tax rates that reduce the value of condition.
deferred tax assets : and Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, x the regulation or endorsement of credit ratings used in the EU regulatory changes and increased public and regulatory scrutiny could whether issued by agencies in EU member states or in other have an adverse impact some of which could be material on the Group countries, such as the US.
include those set out above as well as the following: Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or x the transfer in the UK of regulatory and supervisory powers from the enforcement, or the implementation of new laws, rules or regulations may FSA to the Financial Conduct Authority for conduct of business adversely affect the Groups business, financial condition and results of supervision and the Prudential Regulatory Authority for capital and operations.
In addition, uncertainty and lack of international regulatory liquidity supervision in 2013: coordination as enhanced supervisory standards are developed and implemented may adversely affect the Groups ability to engage in x the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of central banks effective business, capital and risk management planning.
and other governmental or regulatory bodies: 511 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 512 Additional information continued Risk factors continued recommendations, including in relation to i promotion of competition, ii The Group is subject to resolution procedures under current and increased loss absorbency including bail-in, i. e. the ability to write down proposed resolution and recovery schemes which may result in various debt or convert it into an issuers ordinary shares in certain actions being taken in relation to any securities of the Group, including circumstances and iii the implementation of a ring-fence of retail the write off, write-down or conversion of the Groups securities banking operations.
As a result of its status as a GSIFI and in accordance with current and proposed resolution and recovery schemes, the Group was required to The measures in relation to the promotion of competition are already meet certain resolution planning requirements by the end of 2012 and is largely in train, including the development of an industry mechanism to required to meet others in 2013 contemplating its possible failure.
The make it easier for customers to switch their personal current accounts to Group made the required submissions in 2012 to the FSA and its US a different provider, which is due to be completed by September 2013. business will make its required submissions in 2013.
Similar to other major financial institutions, both the Group and its key subsidiaries Bail-in mechanisms continue to be discussed by the EU and the Group remain engaged in a constructive dialogue on resolution and recovery continues to participate in the debate around such mechanisms, which planning with key national regulators and other authorities.
could affect the rights of creditors, including holders of senior and subordinated bonds, and shareholders in the event of the implementation In addition to the powers provided by the Banking Act 2009, further of a resolution scheme or an insolvency and could thereby materially resolution powers are expected to be provided as part of the RRD and affect the price of such securities.
the reforms implementing the recommendations of the ICB.
Such resolution powers are expected to include a bail-in mechanism, pursuant The UK Government published in October 2012 a draft bill intended to to which losses would be imposed on shareholders and, as appropriate, enable the implementation of these reforms.
This draft bill is subject to creditors of the Group through write-down or conversion into equity of pre-legislative scrutiny by the UK Parliamentary Commission on liabilities including debt securities in order to recapitalise and restore the Standards in Banking PCBS, which may recommend changes to the Group to solvency as well as other options, including those as set forth in bill.
The UK Government published its response to the PCBS in February the Banking Act 2009.
The implementation of any resolution and recovery 2013 and agreed to amend the bill to include provisions giving the scheme is the subject of significant debate, particularly for GSIFIs with regulator the power to enforce full separation between retail and complex cross border activities.
Such debate includes whether resolution wholesale banking in a specified group.
The Government is expected to and recovery powers may be exercised through a single point of entry at introduce the bill, which will provide primary enabling legislation in the the holding company or at various levels of the corporate structure of a short term.
This is with a view to completing the legislative framework by GSIFI.
May 2015, requiring compliance as soon as practicable thereafter and setting a final deadline for full implementation of 2019.
The potential impacts of these resolution and recovery powers may include the total loss of value of securities issued by the Group and, in The impact of any final legislation on the Group is impossible to estimate addition for debt holders, the possible conversion into equity securities, with any precision at this stage.
The introduction of bail-in mechanisms and under certain circumstances the inability of the Group to perform its may affect the Groups cost of borrowing, its ability to access professional obligations under its securities.
markets funding and its funding and liquidity metrics.
It is also likely that ring-fencing certain of the Groups operations would require significant The Group is subject to a number of regulatory initiatives which may restructuring with the possible transfer of large numbers of customers adversely affect its business.
The Independent Commission on Bankings between legal entities.
It is possible that such ring-fencing, by itself, or final report on competition and possible structural reforms in the UK taken together with the impact of other proposals contained in this banking industry has been adopted by the UK Government which intends legislation and other EU legislation that will apply to the Group could have to implement the recommendations substantially as proposed.
In addition a material adverse effect on the Groups structure and on the viability of other proposals to ring fence certain business activities and the US certain businesses, in addition to the Groups results of operations, Federal Reserves proposal for applying US capital, liquidity and financial conditions and prospects.
enhanced prudential standards to certain of the Groups US operations together with the UK reforms could require structural changes to the It is also possible that the UKs implementation of a ring-fence may Groups business.
Any of these changes could have a material adverse conflict with any EU legislation to implement the recommendations of the effect on the Group.
High-level Expert Group on Reforming the Structure of the EU Banking The UK Government published a White Paper on Banking Reform in Sector, whose report, published in October 2012, proposed, inter alia, September 2012, outlining proposed structural reforms in the UK banking ring-fencing the trading and market-making activities of major European industry.
The measures proposed were drawn in large part from the banks.
This could affect the Groups position relative to some recommendations of the ICB, which was appointed by the UK competitors.
However, it is not yet clear whether the EU will implement Government in June 2010, The ICB published its final report to the ring-fencing proposals and whether they will apply to UK banks, in Cabinet Committee on Banking Reform on 12 September 2011, which set addition to the UKs own ring-fencing measures.
out the ICBs views on possible reforms to improve stability and competition in UK banking.
The final report made a number of 512 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 513 RBS GROUP 2012 Under the US Federal Reserves proposal to change how it regulates the Groups ongoing legal and regulatory proceedings, see page 455.
Legal US operations of large foreign banking groups, foreign banking and regulatory proceedings and investigations are subject to many organisations with total global consolidated assets of $50 billion or more uncertainties, and their outcomes, including the timing and amount of Large FBOs would have to create a separately capitalised top-tier US fines or settlements, which may be material, are often difficult to predict, intermediate holding company IHC that would hold all US bank and particularly in the early stages of a case or investigation.
The IHC would be subject to US capital, liquidity regulatory proceedings or adverse judgments in litigation could result in and other enhanced prudential standards on a consolidated basis.
restrictions or limitations on the Groups operations or have a significant Among other things, an IHC would be subject to the same US risk based effect on the Groups reputation or results of operations.
and leverage capital standards that apply to a US bank holding company.
The adoption of such a regime would likely result in the Group being The Group may be required to increase provisions in relation to ongoing subject to multiple capital regimes where the US has departed from the legal proceedings, investigations and regulatory matters.
In 2012, international Basel Capital Framework as adopted in the UK and Europe.
provisions were required to cover costs of redress in respect of past sales The imposition of US capital, liquidity and other enhanced prudential of interest rate hedging products to the Groups small and medium sized standards on an IHC of a Large FBO that is subject to home country businesses, having regard to the FSA report issued in January 2013 capital standards on a group-wide consolidated basis would likely give outlining the principles to which it wishes the Group and other UK banks rise to challenging organisational and compliance issues.
The foregoing to adhere in conducting the review and redress exercise.
Additional is only one example of issues that the Group might confront if its US provisions were required in 2012 to cover increased costs associated operations were to be subject to these proposals.
Under the current with Payment Protection Insurance sales practices.
Provision was also proposals the Groups US operations would be subject to these required in respect of the redress paid to customers following the June heightened requirements.
2012 technology incident which resulted in delays in the processing of certain customer accounts and payments.
Significant increases in If any of the proposals described above are adopted, major changes to provisions may harm the Groups reputation and may have an adverse the Groups corporate structure, its business activities conducted in the effect on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
UK and the US and potentially other jurisdictions where the Group operates, as well as changes to the Groups business model, might be The Group, like many other financial institutions, has come under greater required.
The changes are likely to include ring-fencing certain banking regulatory scrutiny in recent years and expects that environment to activities in the UK from other activities of the Group as well as continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as it relates to compliance restructuring other operations within the Group in order to comply with with new and existing corporate governance, employee compensation, these proposed new rules and regulations.
The proposals, if adopted, are conduct of business, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and expected to take an extended period of time to put into place, would be regulations, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions costly to implement and may lack harmonisation, all of the effects of programmes.
which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups structure, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Financial reporting related risks The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is The Group is subject to a number of legal and regulatory actions and determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, investigations.
Unfavourable outcomes in such actions and investigations judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operating results or not turn out to be accurate reputation Under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the Group The Groups operations are diverse and complex and it operates in legal recognises at fair value: i financial instruments classified as held-forand regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant trading or designated as at fair value through profit or loss: ii financial litigation, regulatory investigation and other regulatory risk.
As a result, assets classified as available-for-sale: and iii derivatives.
Generally, to the Group is, and may in the future be, involved in a number of legal and establish the fair value of these instruments, the Group relies on quoted regulatory proceedings and investigations in the UK, the EU, the US and market prices or, where the market for a financial instrument is not other jurisdictions.
sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise observable market data.
In certain circumstances, the data for individual financial The Group is involved in ongoing class action litigation, LIBOR related instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such valuation litigation and investigations, securitisation and securities related litigation, models may not be available or may become unavailable due to and anti-money laundering, sanctions, mis-selling and compliance related prevailing market conditions.
In such circumstances, the Groups internal investigations, in addition to a number of other matters.
In respect of the valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements LIBOR investigations, the Group reached a settlement on 6 February and estimates to establish fair value, which are complex and often relate 2013 with the Financial Services Authority, the Commodity Futures to matters that are inherently uncertain.
These assumptions, judgements Trading Association and the US Department of Justice.
In addition to this and estimates will need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends settlement, the Group continues to cooperate with these and other and market conditions.
The resulting change in the fair values of the governmental and regulatory authorities, including in the US and Asia, financial instruments has had and could continue to have a material into its submissions, communications and procedures relating to the adverse effect on the Groups earnings and financial condition.
setting of LIBOR and other trading rates, and the probable outcome is that it will incur additional financial penalties.
For more detail on the 513 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 514 Additional information continued Risk factors continued system failures, natural disasters or the inadequacy or failure of systems The Groups results could be adversely affected in the event of goodwill and controls, including those of the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
impairment Although the Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing efficient cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, procedures, to identify and rectify weaknesses in existing procedures and liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Acquired goodwill is to train staff, it is not possible to be certain that such actions have been or recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the accumulated impairment losses.
As required by IFRS, the Group tests Group.
Ineffective management of operational risks could have a material goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently when events or adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and results of circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
involves comparing the recoverable amount the higher of the value in use and fair value less cost to sell of an individual cash generating unit The Groups operations are highly dependent on its information with its carrying value.
At 31 December 2012, the Group carried goodwill technology systems of 11.3 billion on its balance sheet.
The value in use and fair value of the The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a very Groups cash generating units are affected by market conditions and the large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying performance of the economies in which the Group operates.
Where the with applicable laws and regulations where it does business.
The proper Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the functioning of the Groups payment systems, financial and sanctions Groups income statement, although it has no effect on the Groups controls, risk management, credit analysis and reporting, accounting, regulatory capital position.
Any significant write-down of goodwill could customer service and other information technology systems, as well as have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations.
the communication networks between its branches and main data processing centres, are critical to the Groups operations.
Critical system The recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the Group failure, any prolonged loss of service availability or any material breach of depends on the Groups ability to generate sufficient future taxable profits data security, particularly involving confidential customer data, could In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets cause serious damage to the Groups ability to service its clients, could on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent that result in significant compensation costs, could breach regulations under it is probable that they will be recovered.
The deferred tax assets are which the Group operates and could cause long-term damage to the quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting standards Groups business and brand.
and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and allowable losses.
Failure to generate For example, failure to protect the Groups operations from cyber attacks sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation or accounting could result in the loss of customer data or other sensitive information.
standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised The threats are increasingly sophisticated and there can be no assurance deferred tax assets.
In April 2011, the UK Government commenced a that the Group will be able to prevent all threats.
In addition, in June staged reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 28% to 23% over 2012, a computer system failure prevented customers from accessing a four-year period.
Further rate reductions were announced in 2012 accounts in both the UK and Ireland.
Ongoing issues relating to the which will lead to a corporation tax rate of 21% by April 2014.
Such failure continued for several months, requiring the Group to set aside a changes in the applicable tax rates will reduce the recoverable amount of provision for compensation to customers who suffered losses as a result the recognised deferred tax assets.
of the system failure, in addition to other related costs.
Operational risks The Group may suffer losses due to employee misconduct Operational risks are inherent in the Groups businesses The Groups businesses are exposed to risk from potential nonOperational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed compliance with policies, employee misconduct or negligence and fraud, internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
The which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or Group has complex and geographically diverse operations and financial harm to the Group.
In recent years, a number of multinational operational risk and losses can result from internal and external fraud, financial institutions have suffered material losses due to the actions of errors by employees or third parties, failure to document transactions rogue traders or other employees.
It is not always possible to deter properly or to obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with employee misconduct and the precautions the Group takes to prevent applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules and detect this activity may not always be effective.
including those arising out of anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes, equipment failures, business continuity and data security 514 GRA12 6 Additional Info 487 515 AW Layout 1 25 03 2013 12:48 Page 515 RBS GROUP 2012 The Groups operations have inherent reputational risk In addition to the effects of such measures on the Groups ability to retain Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative senior management and other key employees, the marketplace for skilled public opinion, is inherent in the Groups business.
Negative public personnel is more competitive, which means the cost of hiring, training opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase.
The failure to Group conducts its business activities, from the Groups financial attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled personnel performance, from the level of direct and indirect government support or could place the Group at a significant competitive disadvantage and from actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry.
prevent the Group from successfully implementing its strategy, which Modern technologies, in particular online social networks and other could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition broadcast tools which facilitate communication with large audiences in and results of operations.
short time frames and with minimal costs, may significantly enhance and accelerate the impact of damaging information and allegations.
Negative In addition, certain of the Groups employees in the UK, continental public opinion may adversely affect the Groups ability to keep and attract Europe and other jurisdictions in which the Group operates are customers and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors.
The Group represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions.
cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to the business from reputational risk, which may result in a material adverse Group and a breakdown of these relationships could adversely affect the effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations and Groups business, reputation and results.
The Group continues to be exposed to its insurance business which is The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which may subject to inherent risks involving claims include members of the Board, or other key employees, and it may suffer Future claims in the insurance business may be higher than expected as if it does not maintain good employee relations a result of changing trends in claims experience resulting from The Groups ability to implement its strategy and its future success catastrophic weather conditions, demographic developments, changes in depends on its ability to attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and the nature and seriousness of claims made, changes in mortality, qualified personnel, including its senior management, which include changes in the legal and compensatory landscape and other causes directors and other key employees, competitively with its peers.
This outside the Groups control.
Because the Group will continue to cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of heightened regulatory consolidate DLGs results with its own for as long as required under oversight of banks and heightened scrutiny of, and in some cases accounting rules, any adverse impact on DLG due to these trends or restrictions placed upon, management and employee compensation insufficient or improper risk management by DLG could have an adverse arrangements, in particular those in receipt of Government support such effect on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
