ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED Acquisitions and disposals The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the part of its normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by diligence, which will include, amongst other matters, assessment requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having of the adequacy of claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is of reinsurance balances, inquiries with regard to outstanding the list of companies which the directors believe may not be able to litigation and inquiries of local regulators and taxation authorities.
pay amounts due to the Group in full.
Consideration is also given to potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any proposed acquisitions with Investment risk existing Group operations.
The Group will seek to receive the The Group is exposed to market risk and credit risk on its invested benefit of appropriate contractual representations and warranties assets.
Market risk includes the risk of potential losses from adverse in connection with any acquisition and, where necessary, additional movements in market rates and prices including interest rates, indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there can be equity prices, property prices and foreign exchange rates.
The no guarantee that these processes and any such protection will be Groups exposure to market risks is controlled by the setting of adequate in all circumstances.
The Group may also provide relevant investment limits in line with the Groups risk appetite.
From time to representations, warranties and indemnities to counterparties on time the Group also makes use of derivative financial instruments to any disposal.
While such representations, warranties and indemnities reduce exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates are essential components of many contractual relationships, they and equity markets.
The Group has strict controls over the use of do not represent the underlying purpose for the transaction.
These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time Credit risk includes the non performance of contractual payment to time lead to the Group receiving claims from counterparties.
obligations on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit worthiness of invested assets including exposures to issuers or Contracts with third parties counterparties for bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Limits The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and are set at both a portfolio and counterparty level based on distribution arrangements with third parties in the normal course likelihood of default to manage the Groups overall credit profile and of its business and is reliant upon those third parties being willing specific concentrations within risk appetite.
The Groups insurance and able to perform their obligations in accordance with the terms investment portfolios are concentrated in listed securities with very and conditions of the contracts.
low levels of exposure to assets without quoted market prices.
The Group uses model based analysis to verify asset values when market Litigation, disputes and investigations values are not readily available.
The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, The current economic crisis adds further uncertainty and volatility governmental and other sectoral inquiries and investigations in the to underlying levels of market and credit risk in the Eurozone.
normal course of its business.
In addition, the Group is exposed The Group has, however, very limited direct exposure via its to the risk of litigation in connection with its former ownership of investment portfolio to the Eurozone and to the peripheral the US operation.
The directors do not believe that any current Eurozone countries in particular.
As with all other invested assets, mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries limits are set in line with the Groups risk appetite.
The Group and investigations and pending or threatened litigation or dispute continues to monitor the situation closely and takes action to will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, manage its exposure as required.
although there can be no assurance that losses or financial penalties resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, Rating environment governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and pending or The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance threatened litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups business is dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit financial position or cashflows for any period.
ratings from the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single A ratings.
At the present time the ratings are Reinsurance A negative outlook from S&P and A2 stable outlook from The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with Moodys.
A worsening in the ratings could have an adverse impact its reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group on the ability of the Group to write certain types of general is also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements and insurance business.
to potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the reinsurers with whom the Group conducts business its strategy is to seek In assessing credit risk in relation to reinsurance and investments, reinsurers with the best combination of financial strength, price and the Group takes into account a variety of factors, including credit capacity.
The Group Corporate Centre publishes internally a list of rating.
If any such rating changes, or is otherwise reassessed, this authorised reinsurers who pass the Groups selection process and has potential implications for the related exposures.
which its operations may use for new transactions.
90 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Foreign exchange risk The Group publishes consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other currencies, particularly other European currencies and the Canadian Dollar, into Pounds Sterling will impact the reported consolidated financial position, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling value of, and the return on, the Groups investments.
Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated at average exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities, as reported in the statement of financial position, are translated at closing exchange rates at the end of the reporting period.
Regulatory environment The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant change in many of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including developments in response to changes in the economic and political environment and the recent financial crisis.
The Group continues to monitor the developments and react accordingly.
The new solvency framework for insurers being developed by the EU, referred to as Solvency II, is intended in the medium term to achieve greater harmonisation of approach across EU member states to assessing capital resources and requirements.
There remains continued uncertainty as delays in agreeing the rules have caused the planned implementation date of 2014 to be delayed.
The Group is actively participating in shaping the outcome through its involvement with European and UK regulators and industry bodies, whilst appropriately progressing its implementation plans and the Directors are confident that the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 91 RISK MANAGEMENT As an insurance company, the Group is fundamentally concerned with the management of risks.
This note summarises the key risks to the Group and the steps taken to manage them.
As set out in the corporate governance report, the Groups Board of Directors the Board defines the risk appetite of the organisation.
The Group employs a comprehensive Risk Management System to identify, measure, manage, monitor and report the risks arising as a result of operating the business.
The Risk Management System includes a comprehensive suite of risk policies, procedures, measurement, reporting and monitoring techniques and a series of stress tests and scenario analyses to ensure that the Groups risk exposures are managed appropriately.
The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities.
In particular the key financial risk is that the proceeds from the realisation of its financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance contracts.
The Group manages its financial assets within a framework that has been developed to seek to ensure the ability to meet its obligations under insurance contracts.
A key principle behind this process is to hold assets of sufficient credit quality and currency that provide a broad match against the liabilities arising from insurance contracts.
The components of insurance, reinsurance, operational, credit, market and liquidity risk management are addressed below: Insurance risk The Groups insurance activities are primarily concerned with the pricing, acceptance and management of risks from its customers.
In accepting risks the Group is committing to the payment of claims and therefore these risks must be understood and controlled.
Disciplined underwriting, encompassing risk assessment, risk management, pricing and exposure control is critical to the Groups success.
Underwriting and claims risks The Group manages these risks through its underwriting strategy, adequate reinsurance arrangements and proactive claims handling.
The underwriting strategy aims to ensure that the underwritten risks are well diversified in terms of type and amount of risk, industry and geography.
Pricing for the Groups products is generally based upon historical claims frequencies and claims severity averages, adjusted for inflation and modelled catastrophes trended forward to recognise anticipated changes in claims patterns.
While claims remain the Groups principal cost, the Group also makes allowance in the pricing procedures for acquisition expenses, administration expenses, investment income, the cost of reinsurance and for a profit loading that adequately covers the cost of the capital the Group exposes to risk.
Underwriting limits are in place to enforce appropriate risk selection criteria.
For example, the Group generally has the right not to renew individual policies, it can impose deductibles and it has the right to reject the payment of a fraudulent claim.
In certain territories, legislation imposes a minimum amount for which employers can be liable for claims for compensation from employees injured at work.
These liabilities are usually insured under an employers liability or similar insurance policy.
All policies issued by the Group comply with minimum statutory requirements.
All of the Groups underwriters have specific licences that set clear parameters for the business they can underwrite, based on the experience of the individual underwriter.
Additionally, the Group has a centrally managed forum looking at Group underwriting issues, reviewing and agreeing underwriting direction and setting policy and directives where appropriate.
The Group has a quarterly portfolio management process across all its business units, which provides a consistent assessment of each portfolio performance against a set of key performance indicators.
Under the portfolio management system, key risk indicators are tracked to monitor emerging trends, opportunities and risks and, on an annual basis, a review forum of business and underwriting leaders undertake a detailed review of each portfolio utilising data from the quarterly reviews.
The Group has developed enhanced methods of recording exposures and concentrations of risk.
This means there is greater control of exposures in high risk areas and enables a prompt response to claims from policyholders should there be a catastrophic event such as an earthquake.
Reinsurance arrangements in place include proportional, excess of loss, stop loss and catastrophe coverage.
The effect of such reinsurance arrangements is that the Group should not suffer total net insurance losses beyond the Groups risk appetite in any one year.
92 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reserves an overview The Group establishes loss reserves to account for the anticipated ultimate costs of all losses and related loss adjustment expenses LAE on losses that have already occurred.
The Group establishes reserves for reported losses and LAE, as well as for incurred but not yet reported IBNR losses and unallocated loss adjustment expenses ULAE.
Loss reserve estimates are based on known facts and on interpretation of circumstances including the Groups experience with similar cases and historical claims payment trends.
The Group also considers the development of loss payment trends, levels of unpaid claims, judicial decisions and economic conditions.
The Group uses a variety of statistical techniques and a number of different bases to set reserves, depending on the business unit and line of business in question.
The Groups reserving managers consider claims developments separately for each line of business and subdivide certain lines of business by major claim types or sub classifications of business.
Large claims impacting each relevant account are also generally assessed separately, either being reserved at the face value of the loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future development of large claims.
The Group has a Group Reserving Committee consisting of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Underwriting and Claims Director, Group Chief Actuary and Group Chief Risk Officer.
A similar committee has been established in each of the Groups major operating segments.
The Group Reserving Committee monitors the decisions and judgements made by the business units as to the level of reserves recommended and makes the final decision on the reserves to be included within the consolidated financial statements Management Best Estimate.
In making its judgement, the Group Reserving Committees aim is that, over the longer term, reserves should be more likely to run off favourably than adversely.
However, there can be no assurance that reserves will not develop adversely and exceed the Management Best Estimate.
In making its judgement of the Management Best Estimate of reserves to include in the consolidated financial statements, the Group Reserving Committee adopts the following approach: r The Groups actuaries provide an indication of ultimate losses together with an assessment of risks and possible favourable or adverse developments that may not have been fully reflected in calculating these indications.
At the end of 2012 these risks and developments include: the possibility of future legislative change having retrospective effect on open claims: changes in claims settlement procedures potentially leading to future claims payment patterns differing from historical experience: the possibility of new types of claim, such as disease claims, emerging from business written several years ago: general uncertainty in the claims environment: the emergence of latent exposures such as asbestos: the outcome of litigation on claims received: failure to recover reinsurance and unanticipated changes in claims inflation r Consideration is also made of the views of internal peer reviewers of the reserves and of other parties including actuaries, legal counsel, risk directors, underwriters and claims managers r Consideration is made of how previous actuarial indications have developed.
In forming its collective judgement, the Committee considers this information as a whole.
Emerging and legal risks These are risks that have been identified as potentially affecting the Group but are not able to be quantified.
Existing or potential future risk exposures are identified and investigated in a structured way, using internal and external resources, and actions to mitigate, contai n or remove these risks are taken.
In the ordinary course of its insurance activities, the Group is routinely involved in legal or arbitration proceedings with respect to liabilities, which are the subject of policy claims.
However, as insurance industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
These issues can have a negative effect on the Groups financial results by either extending coverage beyond its underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims.
In addition, to the extent that legal decisions in any of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates worldwide may increase court awards, and that the impact may be applied prospectively or retrospectively, claims reserves may prove insufficient to cover actual losses, LAE or future policy benefits.
In such an event, or where it has been previously estimated that no liability would apply, the Group would add to its reserves and incur a charge to earnings.
Such insufficiencies could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future consolidated financial position, financial results and cashflows.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 93 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Reinsurance risk The Group is exposed to both multiple insured losses and losses arising out of a single occurrence, for example a natural peril event such as a hurricane, flood or earthquake.
The ability of the business units in each territory to assess the aggregation risk of a single event impacting on thousands of policyholders is vital.
The Group employs proprietary exposure measurement systems to assess these risks.
In some markets, particularly in the UK, the Group has in addition developed its own expertise in catastrophe modelling that is used in conjunction with outside consultants.
The accurate estimation of the potential expected maximum loss for a catastrophe is critical and is the primary factor considered in designing the Groups catastrophe reinsurance programme.
The expertise within the Group on catastrophe modelling is shared through the Worldwide Reinsurance Practice Group, which also provides an overview of the groupwide catastrophe exposures and reinsurance adequacy.
A reinsurance programme is considered to be adequate only if it covers possible events that could happen in at least 199 out of 200 years.
This is referred to as the 1 in 200 year expected maximum loss.
The Group uses financial analysis models to assess the risk and reward effects of different reinsurance structures and prices.
A strategic review was undertaken during 2012, the result of which is to improve the financial performance of the Group through rebalancing retention levels whilst continuing to protect capital and manage volatility.
All of the Groups operations are required to purchase reinsurance within agreed local reinsurance appetite parameters.
The Group Corporate Centre authorises the operations proposed treaty purchases to check that they at least meet the Groups appetite, for example the 1 in 200 year standard for catastrophe risk.
Group Corporate Centre also checks to see that total Group exposures are within the limits set out above and also are consistent with the required risk based capital.
In addition, local facultative arrangements may be purchased where deemed appropriate.
The Group remains primarily liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured, although the reinsurer is liable to the Group to the extent of the insurance risk ceded.
Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from human factors, external events and inadequate or failed internal processes and systems.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups operations and are typical of any large enterprise.
Major sources of operational risk can include operational process reliability, information security, outsourcing of operations, dependence on key suppliers, implementation of strategic and operational change, integration of acquisitions, fraud, human error, customer service quality, inadequacy of business continuity arrangements, recruitment, training and retention of staff, and social and environmental impacts.
The Group manages operational risk using a range of techniques and tools to identify, monitor and mitigate its operational risk in accordance with Groups risk appetite.
These tools include Risk and Control Self Assessments, Key Risk Indicators e. g. fraud and service indicators, Scenario Analyses and Loss Reporting.
In addition the Group has developed a number of contingency plans including Incident Management and Business Continuity Plans.
Quantitative analysis of operational risk exposures material to the Group is used to inform decisions on the overall amount of capital held and the adequacy of contingency arrangements.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of loss of value of the financial assets due to counterparties failing to meet all or part of their obligations.
The Board Risk Committee BRC is responsible for ensuring that the Board approved Group credit risk appetite is not exceeded.
This is done through the setting and imposition of Group policies, procedures and limits.
In defining its appetite for credit risk the Group looks at exposures at both an aggregate and business unit level distinguishing between credit risks incurred as a result of offsetting insurance risks or operating in the insurance market e. g. reinsurance credit risks and risks to receiving premiums due from policyholders and intermediaries and credit risks incurred for the purposes of generating a return e. g. invested assets credit risk.
Limits are set at both a portfolio and counterparty level based on likelihood of default, derived from the rating of the counterparty, to ensure that the Groups overall credit profile and specific concentrations are managed and controlled within risk appetite.
Financial assets are graded according to company standards.
AAA is the highest possible rating.
Investment grade financial assets are classified within the range of AAA to BBB ratings.
For invested assets, restrictions are placed on each of the Groups investment managers as to the level of exposure to various rating categories including unrated securities.
94 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table provides information regarding the aggregated credit risk exposure for financial assets of the Group as at 31 December 2012.
Total of Credit rating relating to financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired financial assets that are neither past due AAA AA A BBB BBB Not rated nor impaired m m m m m m m Debt securities 5,985 2,079 2,585 835 81 159 11,724 Loans and receivables 18 21 3 3 41 86 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 35 533 1,040 218 50 55 1,931 1 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 121 23 695 136 104 2,336 3,415 Derivative assets 12 31 3 46 Other debtors 323 323 Cash and cash equivalents 276 452 412 97 33 59 1,329 Notes: 1.
The insurance and reinsurance debtors classified as not rated comprise personal policyholders and small corporate customers that do not have individual credit ratings.
The overall credit risk to the Group is deemed to be low as the cover could be cancelled if payment were not received on time.
As at 31 December 2011 Total of financial Credit rating relating to financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired assets that are neither past due AAA AA A BBB BBB Not rated nor impaired m m m m m m m Debt securities 6,639 2,070 2,231 524 53 150 11,667 Loans and receivables 3 5 18 2 76 104 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 50 466 1,171 179 79 116 2,061 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 53 21 63 52 2 2,984 3,175 Derivative assets 57 2 59 Other debtors 300 300 Cash and cash equivalents 339 316 320 89 62 132 1,258 With the exception of AAA rated government debt securities, the largest aggregate credit exposure does not exceed 3% of the Groups total financial assets.
Holdings of government bonds in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Spain and Portugal are 121m at 31 December 2012 and comprises around 1% of the total bond portfolio 2011: around 1%.
In addition to this the Group holds 227m of senior and subordinated bank debt and 122m of other corporate holdings in these countries.
The Group is exposed to credit and concentrations of risk with individual reinsurers, due to the nature of the reinsurance market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit ratings.
The reinsurance strategy is to purchase reinsurance in the most effective manner from reinsurers who meet its security standards.
Reinsurance counterparties are subject to a rigorous internal assessment process on an ongoing basis to ensure that their creditworthiness continues to be satisfactory and the potential impact from reinsurer default is measured regularly and managed accordingly.
The Group Reinsurance Credit Committee oversees the management of these risks.
Group standards are set such that reinsurers that have a financial strength rating of less than Awith Standard & Poors, or a comparable rating, are removed from the Groups authorised list of approved reinsurers unless the Groups internal review discovers exceptional circumstances in favour of the reinsurer.
Collateral is taken to mitigate exposures, where appropriate, to acceptable levels or the size or credit quality of the exposure.
At 31 December 2012 the Group held collateral against 89m 2011: 115m of reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities.
The Group regularly monitors its aggregate exposures by reinsurer group against predetermined reinsurer group limits, in accordance with the methodology agreed by the BRC.
The Groups largest reinsurance exposures to active reinsurance groups are Swiss Re, Munich Re, and HDI-Gerling.
At 31 December 2012 the reinsurance asset recoverable from these groups does not exceed 3% of the Groups total financial Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 95 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED assets.
Stress tests are performed by reinsurer counterparty and the limits are set such that in a catastrophic event, the exposure to a single reinsurer is estimated not to exceed 3% of the Groups total financial assets.
Certain of the Groups subsidiaries are members of government mandated pools in various parts of the world.
As of 31 December 2012 the largest pool by premium volume is Pool Re operated by the UK Government to provide terrorism cover.
There are no material financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
The following table provides information regarding the carrying value of financial assets that have been impaired and the ageing of financial assets that are past due but not impaired as at 31 December 2012.
Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial Carrying value in Impairment Neither past assets that the statement losses charged due nor Up to three Three to six Six months to Greater than have been of financial to the income impaired months months one year one year impaired position statement m m m m m m m m Debt securities 11,724 11,724 Loans and receivables 86 11 97 7 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 1,931 18 1,949 1 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 3,415 107 35 11 24 3,592 1 Derivative assets 46 46 Other debtors 323 5 18 3 8 357 Cash and cash equivalents 1,329 1,329 As at 31 December 2011 Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Financial Carrying value in Impairment Neither past assets that the statement losses charged due nor Up to three Three to six Six months to Greater than have been of financial to the income impaired months months one year one year impaired position statement m m m m m m m m Debt securities 11,667 4 3 11,674 6 Loans and receivables 104 104 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 2,061 12 2,073 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 3,175 97 25 11 13 7 3,328 4 Derivative assets 59 59 Other debtors 300 13 19 6 3 341 Cash and cash equivalents 1,258 1,258 Local operations are responsible for assessing and monitoring the creditworthiness of their counterparties e. g. brokers and policyholders.
Local credit committees are responsible for ensuring these exposures are within the risk appetite of the local operations.
Exposure monitoring and reporting is embedded throughout the organisation with aggregate credit positions reported and monitored at Group level.
The Groups investments comprise a broad range of financial investments issued principally in the UK, Canada and Scandinavia.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had pledged 895m 2011: 901m of financial assets as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities and had accepted 827m 2011: 936m in collateral.
The nature of the assets pledged as collateral comprises government securities of 831m 2011: 855m, cash and cash equivalents of 32m 2011: 13m and debt securities of 32m 2011: 33m.
The terms and conditions of the collateral pledged are market standard in relation to letter of credit facilities.
The Group is permitted to sell or repledge collateral held in the event of default by the owner, the fair value of which has been noted above at 827m.
The terms and conditions of the collateral held are market standard.
The assets held as collateral are readily convertible into cash.
96 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2012, the Group had entered into short-term sale and repurchase agreements for UK government securities.
The Group continues to recognise the debt securities in the statement of financial position as the Group remains exposed to the risks and rewards of ownership.
The carrying value of these debt securities recognised in the statement of financial position is 295m 2011: 297m and the carrying value of the associated liabilities is 295m 2011: 297m.
Market risk The Group is exposed to the risk of potential losses from adverse movements in market prices including those of interest rates, equities, property, exchange rates and derivatives.
The Groups exposure to these risks is governed by the market risk policy.
Exposures are controlled by the setting of investment limits and managing asset-liability matching in line with the Groups risk appetite.
The Group Investment Committee GIC, on behalf of the Group Board, is responsible for reviewing and approving the investment strategy for the Groups investment portfolios.
It provides approval for all major changes of the Groups investment strategy and, in particular, approves any substantive changes to the balance of the Groups funds between the major asset classes.
Importantly the GIC also approves the terms of reference of the Groups main operational investment committee, the Group Asset Management Committee GAMC.
The BRC issues GAMC with investment risk limits.
Interest rate risk The fair value of the Groups portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely correlated to changes in the market interest rates.
Thus if interest rates fall, the fair value of the portfolio would tend to rise and vice versa as set out in the sensitivity analysis on page 99.
Equity price risk The Groups portfolio of equity securities is subject to equity risk arising from changes in market price.
Thus if the value of equities rise so will the fair value of its portfolio and vice versa as set out in the sensitivity analysis on page 99.
The Group sets appropriate risk limits to ensure that no significant concentrations to individual companies arise.
The Group takes a long-term view in selecting shares and looks to build value over a sustained period of time rather than churning the portfolio looking for short-term gains from its equity holdings.
The Group makes use of derivative products as appropriate to manage equity exposure and to protect the portfolio from losses outside of its risk appetite.
Property price risk The Groups portfolio of properties is subject to property price risk arising from changes in the market value of properties.
Further information on the valuation approach is included in Significant Accounting Policies.
Thus if the value of property falls so will the fair value of the portfolio as set out in the sensitivity analysis on page 99.
A number of the Groups property holdings are Group occupied and therefore are reported within property and equipment.
The Groups investment in investment property is recorded as such and these investments are held as part of an efficient portfolio management strategy.
Currency risk The Group operates in 32 countries.
Accordingly, its net assets are subject to foreign exchange rate movements.
The Groups primary foreign currency exposures are to the Danish Krone, Euro, Canadian Dollar and the Swedish Krona.
If the value of Sterling strengthens then the value of non Sterling net assets will decline when translated into Sterling and consolidated.
The Group incurs exposure to currency risk in two ways: r Operational currency risk by underwriting liabilities in currencies other than the currency of the primary environment in which the business units operate non functional currencies r Structural currency risk by investing in overseas subsidiaries and operating an international insurance group.
Operational currency risk is managed within the Groups individual operations by broadly matching assets and liabilities by currency.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 97 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Structural currency risk is managed at a Group level through currency forward and foreign exchange option contracts within the limits that have been set.
In managing structural currency risk, the needs of the Groups subsidiaries to maintain net assets in local currencies to satisfy local regulatory solvency and internal risk based capital requirements are taken into account.
These assets should prove adequate to support local insurance activities irrespective of exchange rate movements.
Consequently, this may affect the value of the consolidated shareholders equity expressed in Sterling.
At 31 December 2012, the Groups total shareholders equity analysed by currency is: Pounds Danish Canadian Swedish Sterling Krone Euro Dollar Krona Other Total m m m m m m Shareholders equity at 31 December 2012 1,057 629 572 558 934 3,750 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2011 876 681 745 568 931 3,801 Shareholders equity is stated after taking account of the effect of currency forward contracts and foreign exchange options.
On this basis, a 10% change in Pounds Sterling against Danish Krone Euro, Canadian Dollar or Swedish Krona would have the following impact on shareholders equity: 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% strengthening weakening strengthening weakening strengthening weakening in Pounds in Pounds in Pounds in Pounds in Pounds in Pounds Sterling Sterling Sterling Sterling Sterling Sterling against against against against against against Danish Danish Canadian Canadian Swedish Swedish Krone Euro Krone Euro Dollar Dollar Krona Krona m m m m m m Movement in shareholders equity at 31 December 2012 57 70 52 64 51 62 Movement in shareholders equity at 31 December 2011 62 75 68 83 52 63 The analysis aggregates the Danish Krone exposure and the Euro exposure as the Danish Krone continues to be pegged closely to the Euro.
The Group considers the aggregate exposures when reviewing its hedging strategy.
Apart from the impact on derivative financial instruments covered below, the changes arise from retranslation of foreign subsidiaries net asset positions from their functional currencies into Pounds Sterling, with movements being taken through the translation reserve.
These movements in exchange rates therefore have no impact on profit.
Derivatives The Group may use derivative financial instruments for the purpose of reducing its exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and long-term inflation.
The Group does not use derivatives to leverage its exposure to markets and does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Forward contracts and foreign exchange options are used to reduce the risk of adverse currency movements on certain forecast future cash transactions and for structural hedging.
The policy on use of derivatives is approved by the BRC.
Remaining life Fair value Notional principal amounts Less than One to More than one year five years five years 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m m m m Cross currency Asset 14 1 15 15 974 900 Liability 6 6 14 830 760 Inflation Asset 21 21 10 see below see below Liability 24 24 13 see below see below Equity index Asset 10 10 34 see below see below Liability 12 12 27 see below see below 98 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2012 there are derivative contracts in place to protect the value of the UK, Canadian, European, and US equity portfolios of the Group.
These provide limited protection against declines in market levels whilst also capping participation in any appreciation of the market.
In total, this strategy covers an underlying equity value up to approximately 348m 2011: 477m.
If UK, Canadian, European and US equity markets decreased by 15%, the impact of these derivatives as at 31 December 2012, would be to decrease the impact of the decline by 26m 2011: 30m.
During 2011 the Group entered into a series of swap contracts which collectively provide limited cover against a sharp increase in longterm inflation.
In total the swap contracts provide inflation cover over a nominal value of 180m 2011: 180m and are split over different contract terms.
At 31 December 2012 the Group holds currency forward contracts and foreign exchange options that are designated as hedging instruments to reduce structural foreign exchange risk.
The derivatives are included in the table above.
Further information on designated hedges can be found in note 28.
Sensitivity analysis The Group uses a number of sensitivity or stress test-based risk management tools to understand the impact of the above risks on earnings and capital in both normal and stressed conditions.
These stress tests combine deterministic shocks, analysis of historical scenarios and stochastic modelling using the internal capital model to inform the Groups decision making and planning process and also for identification and management of risks within the business units.
The following table provides an indication of some of the single factor changes adopted within the Group.
Changes in the income statement and equity: Increase decrease Decrease in other in income statement comprehensive income 2012 2011 2012 2011 m m m m 2 Interest rate markets: 3 Impact on fixed interest securities of increase in interest rates of 100bps 446 393 4 Decrease of equity markets: Direct impact on equities of a 15% fall in equity markets 25 28 84 116 Mitigating impact arising from derivatives held 26 30 4 Property markets: Decrease of property markets of 15% 51 54 23 22 Notes: 1.
This analysis assumes that there is no correlation between equity price, interest rate and property market rate risks.
It also assumes that all other assets and liabilities remain unchanged and that no management action is taken.
This analysis does not represent managements view of future market change, but reflects managements view of key sensitivities.
The sensitivity of the fixed interest securities of the Group has been modelled by reference to a reasonable approximation of the average interest rate sensitivity of the investments held within each of the portfolios.
The effect of movement in interest rates is reflected as a one time rise of 100bps on 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2012.
The impact on the fair value of the loan capital is a decrease of 55m 2011: 75m.
The effect of movements in equity and property markets is reflected as a one time decrease of worldwide equity and property markets on 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2012 which results in a 15% decline in the value of the Groups assets in these investment categories.
This analysis has not considered the impact of the above market changes on the valuation of the Groups insurance contract liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
This analysis is presented gross of the corresponding tax credits charges.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The Group has no appetite for liquidity risk and is committed to meeting all liabilities as they fall due.
The investment risk limits set by the BRC ensure that a large part of the Groups portfolio is kept in highly liquid marketable securities sufficient to meet its liabilities as they fall due based on actuarial assessment and allowing for contingencies.
The limits are monitored at a Group level as part of the Group Risk exposure monitoring and BRC reporting process.
In addition the Group has committed credit facilities available as set out in note 22.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 99 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Maturity periods or contractual repricing The following table summarises the contractual repricing or maturity dates whichever is earlier for financial liabilities that are subject to fixed and variable interest rates.
Insurance contract liabilities are also presented and are analysed by remaining duration.
As at 31 December 2012 Carrying value in the Greater statement of Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Five to than financial one year two years three years four years five years ten years ten years Total position m m m m m m m m m Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 15 15 14 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual bonds 375 375 334 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 450 450 470 Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 500 500 493 Provision for unearned premium 3,481 263 79 7 5 17 3,852 3,852 Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses 4,065 1,849 1,199 826 600 1,464 2,334 12,337 11,002 Direct insurance creditors 283 6 289 289 Reinsurance creditors 253 9 2 4 268 269 Borrowings 295 1 296 296 Deposits received from reinsurers 33 33 33 Derivative liabilities 42 42 42 Total 8,452 2,577 1,280 837 980 1,982 2,349 18,457 17,094 Interest on loan capital 112 109 73 73 62 71 9 509 As at 31 December 2011 Carrying value in the Greater statement of Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Five to than financial one year two years three years four years five years ten years ten years Total position m m m m m m m m m Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 15 15 14 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual bonds 375 375 326 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 450 450 480 Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 500 500 493 Provision for unearned premium 3,327 228 79 14 9 12 3,669 3,669 Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses 3,563 1,842 1,182 873 639 1,588 2,663 12,350 11,097 Direct insurance creditors 283 2 285 285 Reinsurance creditors 307 8 2 317 317 Borrowings 298 298 298 Deposits received from reinsurers 33 33 33 Derivative liabilities 54 54 54 Total 7,865 2,080 1,713 887 648 2,475 2,678 18,346 17,066 Interest on loan capital 112 112 112 73 73 132 11 625 100 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
