SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes to actuarial The proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to assumptions when revaluing future benefits and from actual share capital nominal value and share premium when the options experience in respect of scheme liabilities and investment are exercised.
performance of scheme assets being different from previous assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the Provisions statement of comprehensive income.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely The value recognised in the statement of financial position for than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle each individual post retirement scheme is calculated as follows: the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
r The present value of defined benefit obligation of the scheme Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood at the end of the reporting period that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by r Minus any past service cost not yet recognised considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is r Minus the fair value at the end of the reporting period of recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to the scheme assets out of which the obligations are to be any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Dividends to equity holders For those individual schemes in deficit, the resulting net liabilities The final dividend is recognised as a liability when approved at the are recognised in the statement of financial position in provisions.
For those individual schemes in surplus, an asset is recognised in the statement of financial position in other debtors and other Leases assets to the extent that the Group can realise an economic benefit, Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line in the form of a refund or a reduction in future contributions, at basis over the term of the lease.
Payments made under operating some point during the life of the scheme or when the scheme leases are charged on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Operating segments Termination benefits Operating segments are identified on the basis of the regional Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated structure of the Group.
Internal reports about these segments are before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee regularly reviewed by the Board of Directors determined to be the accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The chief operating decision maker to assess their performance and to Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably allocate capital and resources.
committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility Assets and liabilities held for sale and discontinued operations of withdrawal: or providing termination benefits as a result of an Assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount is to offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due be recovered principally through a sale transaction, that are highly more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are probable to be completed within one year from the date of discounted to present value.
classification, rather than through continuing use.
Such assets are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less Share based payments costs to sell and are classified separately from other assets in the The value of the employee share options and other equity settled statement of financial position.
Assets and liabilities of a disposal share based payments is calculated at fair value at the grant date group are not netted.
In the period where a non current asset using appropriate and recognised option pricing models.
The value or disposal group is recognised for the first time, the statement of liabilities in respect of cash settled share based payment of financial position for the comparative prior period presented is transactions is based upon the fair value of the awards at the not restated.
end of the reporting period.
Discontinued operations are presented on the face of the income Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and statement as a single amount comprising the total of the net profit performance conditions, other than those based upon market or loss of discontinued operations and the after-tax gain or loss conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value recognised on the sale or the measurement to fair value less costs of such awards but are taken into account by adjusting the number to sell of the net assets constituting the discontinued operations.
of equity instruments included in the ultimate measurement of the In the period where an operation is presented for the first time transaction amount.
The value of the awards is recognised as an as discontinued, the income statement for the comparative expense on a systematic basis over the period during which the prior period presented is restated to present that operation employment services are provided.
Where an award of options as discontinued.
is cancelled by an employee, the full value of the award less any value previously recognised is recognised at the cancellation date.
86 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unless otherwise stated, in the period where an operation is The Group will also apply Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation presented as discontinued, the notes to the financial statements of Financial Statements Presentation of Items of Other contain amounts attributable to continuing operations only.
The Comprehensive Income issued by the IASB in June 2011. comparatives for the notes to the income statement are restated.
The presentation of items already disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income will be rearranged in Current and non current distinction accordance with the revised standard.
The application of this Assets are classified as current when expected to be realised revised IFRS will have no impact on either the total financial within the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
Liabilities results of the Group or the financial position of the Group.
are classified as current when expected to be settled within the Groups normal operating cycle of one year.
All other assets and The comparative information will be restated when applying the liabilities are classified as non current.
The Groups statement of financial position is not presented The Group will also adopt IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement at using current and non current classifications.
However, the following 1 January 2013 issued by the IASB in May 2011.
The standard balances are generally classified as current: cash and cash equivalents sets out a framework for measuring fair value and the associated and insurance and reinsurance debtors.
disclosures, whenever fair value is used under IFRSs.
The adoption of IFRS 13 will have no impact on either the total financial results The following balances are generally classified as non current: or the financial position of the Group.
goodwill and other intangible assets: property and equipment: investment property: investment in associates: financial assets: There are a number of other changes to IFRSs that become deferred tax assets: loan capital: and deferred tax liabilities.
mandatory in 2013 but which have no significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
The remaining balances are of a mixed nature.
The current and non current portions of such balances are set out in the respective Other new and revised IFRSs that are not mandatory for notes or in the risk management section.
adoption in 2013 There are a number of new IFRSs and revised IFRSs that have Recently issued accounting pronouncements been issued and which are mandatory after 2013.
These include Pronouncements issued by the International Accounting Standards new IFRSs dealing with consolidated financial statements, joint Board IASB and adopted by the EU but which are not yet mandatory arrangements and disclosures of interests in other entities.
It is for adoption and have yet to be adopted in the Group financial expected that none of these changes will have a significant impact statements are described below: on the financial statements of the Group.
New and revised IFRSs that will be applied by the Group in its Other new IFRSs that are not yet adopted by the EU 2013 financial statements The IASB has issued a new IFRS and a number of changes to The Group will apply a revised version of IAS 19 Employee Benefits existing IFRSs that have not yet been adopted by the EU.
The most issued by the IASB in June 2011.
The revisions include the following significant of these ongoing developments for the Group is the changes to the Groups existing accounting policies: project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The new IFRS on financial instruments is expected r Expected returns on plan assets will no longer be recognised in to be mandatory for the 2015 financial statements.
Expected returns are replaced by recording interest income in the income statement, which is calculated using the discount rate used to measure the pension obligation r Unvested past service costs are no longer deferred and recognised over the future vesting period.
Instead all past service costs will be recognised at the earlier of when the amendment curtailment occurs or when the entity recognises related restructuring or termination costs.
The impact of the revised standard on the results reported at 31 December 2012 is provided in note 26.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 87 ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES Introduction r Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to average cost protect themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance r Notified claims development, where notified claims to companies accept the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders date for each year are extrapolated based upon observed and seek to add value through the aggregation and management development of earlier years of these risks.
The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the Bornhuetterfinancial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the Ferguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of contract liabilities of the Company.
In selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness of the methods and bases to the individual The insurance contract liabilities of an insurance company include circumstances of the provision class and underwriting year.
The the provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the process is designed to select the most appropriate best estimate.
provision for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Unearned premiums and unexpired risks represent the amount of income Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally set aside by the Company to cover the cost of claims that may arise assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the during the unexpired period of risk of insurance policies in force loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow at the end of the reporting period.
Outstanding claims represent for the future development of large claims.
the Companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have occurred by the end of the reporting period but have not yet been Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be recoverable from reinsurers based upon the gross provisions and having due In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision regard to collectability.
for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the end The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are subject of the reporting period but remain unsettled.
This includes claims to close scrutiny both within the Groups business units and at Group that may have occurred but have not yet been notified to the Corporate Centre.
In addition, for major classes where the risks and Company and those that are not yet apparent to the insured.
uncertainties inherent in the provisions are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by advisers who are able to As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs draw upon their specialist expertise and a broader knowledge to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the of current industry trends in claims development.
As an example, appropriate provisions.
the Groups exposure to asbestos and environmental pollution is examined on this basis.
The results of these reviews are considered Estimation techniques when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for losses and Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon loss adjustment expenses and unexpired periods of risk.
previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms and conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases determination of insurance contract liabilities involve obtaining and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also includes corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible the consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the and combining these to form the overall estimate.
This technique potential longer-term significance of large events, the levels of unpaid means that the estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
claims, legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic, political and regulatory conditions.
The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard Where possible, the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate 19 IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, the required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater calculated in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
made from time to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment The Groups estimates of losses and loss expenses are reached return and mortality.
IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current after a review of several commonly accepted actuarial projection market value of a pension funds assets with its long-term liabilities, methodologies and a number of different bases to determine these which are calculated using a discount rate in line with yields on AA provisions.
These include methods based upon the following: rated bonds of suitable duration and currency.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund on this basis is highly sensitive to changes in r The development of previously settled claims, where payments bond rates and will also be impacted by changes in equity markets.
to date are extrapolated for each prior year 88 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Uncertainties and contingencies The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be and cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy characterised under a number of specific headings, such as: to reduce such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
r Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would Asbestos and environmental claims give rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims r Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of r Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for a policyholder as a result of the event occurring other classes of insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to r Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder determine the future development of asbestos and environmental for a loss suffered.
claims with the same degree of reliability as with other types of claims, particularly in periods when theories of law are in flux.
The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to Consequently, traditional techniques for estimating provisions for the characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will losses and loss adjustment expenses cannot wholly be relied upon be determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
and the Group employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of and environmental pollution experts and external legal and the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following the identification and notification of an insured loss, there may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing of the Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: settlement of the claim.
There are many factors that will determine the level of uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial r The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure interpretations and court judgments that broaden policy coverage for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period beyond the intent of the original insurance, legislative changes and of up to 40 years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number claims handling procedures.
of claims the Group will receive particularly difficult r Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible The establishment of insurance contract liabilities is an inherently parties and insurers uncertain process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the r Emerging court decisions and the possibility of retrospective eventual cost of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired legislative changes increasing or decreasing insurer liability risks can vary substantially from the initial estimates, particularly for r The tendency for social trends and factors to influence the Groups long tail lines of business.
The Group seeks to provide court awards appropriate levels of provisions for losses and loss adjustment r Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover expenses and provision for unexpired risks taking the known facts reinsurance for claims of this nature and experience into account.
r For US liabilities from the Groups London market business, developments in the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business decisions and awards.
within each operating segment that may develop and that could have a material impact upon the Groups financial position.
Potential change in discount rate for lump sum damages awards The geographic and insurance risk diversity within the Groups Legislative changes may affect the Groups liability in respect of portfolio of issued insurance policies mean it is not possible unsettled claims in the use of predetermined factors used by courts to predict whether material development will occur and, if it to calculate compensation claims.
For example, in the UK, standard does occur, the location and the timing of such an occurrence.
formulae are used as an actuarial measure by the courts to assess The estimation of insurance contract liabilities involves the use lump sum damages awards for future losses typically loss of earnings of judgements and assumptions that are specific to the insurance arising from personal injuries and fatal accidents.
The calibration of risks within each territory and the particular type of insurance risk these standard formulae can be updated by the UK Government covered.
The diversity of the insurance risks results in it not being and the Lord Chancellor may review the methodology to be applied possible to identify individual judgements and assumptions that are in determining the discount rate to calculate the appropriate more likely than others to have a material impact on the future settlements, or the discount rate itself, in due course.
A reduction development of the insurance contract liabilities.
in the prescribed discount rate would increase the value of future claims settlements.
The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk which could develop in the future and that could have a material impact on the Groups financial position.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 | RSA | 89
