Key risks and mitigations We continually seek to strengthen our risk control processes and technological support tools to increase their effectiveness.
This section summarises how we We continually upgrade our risk control control risk.
It sets out how we manage processes and technological support tools the risks in our business and how we to increase their effectiveness.
The Chief have developed risk management.
Executive has delegated the executive It summarises the role of the Group oversight of risk to the Chief Financial Risk Committee GRC and outlines key officer.
The Chief Financial officer has risks, how we mitigate them and our responsibility for the risk and control assessment of their potential impact framework of the Group and the on our business in the context of independent monitoring and reporting the current economic and political of risks and controls.
Finally, it provides an At Schroders, risk management is overview of the impact of emerging risks.
The Chief Financial officer is supported embedded within the business and by the Group Head of Risk and chairs is the responsibility of all employees.
The Committee meets ten times It is the responsibility of all employees to a year.
Meetings are attended by the uphold the control culture of Schroders executive Directors, the heads of the control and we embed risk management within functions, the Chief Operating officer, the business.
and by GMC members consistent with the quarterly cycle of reviewing their areas The Board also has accountability for of responsibility.
As the principal executive risk management.
It regularly considers committee for the monitoring and reporting the most significant risks facing the of risks and controls, the GRC reviews and Group and uses quantitative exposure monitors the adequacy and effectiveness measures, such as stress tests, where of the Groups risk management appropriate.
Non-executive oversight framework, including relevant policies and of the risk management process is limits.
It also reviews trends and exceptions exercised through the Audit and in the most significant risk exposures.
Three lines of defence The Chief Executive and Group The first line of defence against unexpected Management Committee GMC regularly outcomes lies with line managers, whether review the key risks facing the Group.
they are in Investment, Distribution, Private Individual risks are managed in accordance Banking or Infrastructure.
Members of the with the risksand their potential impacts, GMC have risk management responsibility so as tomitigate adverse consequences.
for their respective business areas.
The We group the risks we face into market, senior management team takes the lead investment performance and liquidity role with respect to implementing risks, credit risks, operational risks, appropriate controls acrossthe business andemergingrisks.
to maintain the qualitystandards expected by clients andregulators.
Three lines of defence Group Audit 3rd Line: Independent assurance Risk and Risk Committee Committee 2nd Line: Oversight functions 1st Line: Business operations 30 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Line management is supplemented During 2012, we continued to devote byoversight functions i. e. Group Risk, resources to the management of risks Financial Control, Compliance and Legal associated with potential Eurozone that provide a second line of defence.
instability and the weak economic environment.
A crisis management Group Internal Audit provides retrospective exercise was held during the year to independent assurance over the operation consider our response to Eurozone risks, of controls and is the third line of defence which led to the delivery of a Eurozone against unexpected outcomes.
The internal crisis management plan to the GMC.
audit programme includes reviews of the risk management process and advice and We revised our assessment of operational Investment Risk is recommendations to improve the control risk controls during the year, piloting the fully independent of the environment.
Schroders also carries a approach successfully in seven business Investment function.
comprehensive insurance programme, areas and across a variety of supporting providing further assurance.
A number of new operational key risk indicators were introduced 2012 developments to monitor potential risks such as The membership of the GRC was unauthorised trading.
expanded during the year to include all GMC members.
Agendas are tailored to In addition, we reviewed the operation of Investment, Distribution and Infrastructure the Investment Risk team, changing the on a sequential quarterly cycle and GMC reporting line to make it fully independent members attend the meetings relevant to of Investment.
In order to simplify agendas, sub-committees comprising The GRCs work in 2012 also included Group policy reviews, credit reviews, emerging risk identication: hard to value financial crime and Private Banking have and illiquid instruments: mandate breaches: been established.
taxation: Private Banking specic risks: preparations for regulatory developments, including Client Asset Sourcebook CASS revision: Recovery and Resolution Plans: Group Risk prepared Anti-Money Laundering and market a dedicated Eurozone crisis abuse developments: and policy reviews management plan for the such as Group pricing, personal account Group during the year.
dealing and Group order management and execution.
Key risks The following tables summarise key business risks.
These are not exhaustive but aim to provide information on the risks that are currently considered to be most relevant to our business.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Key risks and mitigations continued Market, investment performance and liquidity risks We face risks from movements in the financial markets in which we operate, arising from holding investments both as principal and agent.
We have principal exposure in the Life Company in Asset Management which holds investments in funds: in our Private Banking business, where we hold bank paper and government securities: and through the Groups investment capital, where we hold bank paper, government and corporate bonds, equities, funds of hedge funds, property and private equity.
There is agency exposure in Asset Management and Private Banking in respect of the assets we manage on behalf of our clients.
Key risk Description How we manage risk Market risk Market risk arises from market Our , broad product range enables us to provide clients with movements, which can cause a fall solutions tailored to a variety of market conditions and serves to diversify individual in the value of principal investments market dependencies.
and a decline in the value of assets under management.
The Group Capital Committee regularly reviews all holdings within Group capital.
All principal investments are managed within approved limits.
The Groups seed Equity, net fee income and capital investments may be hedged in respect of market risk and currency risk.
expenses of the Groups overseas These decisions are taken by the Group Capital Committee, chaired by the subsidiaries are denominated in Chief Financial officer.
local currencies and are therefore subject to exchange rate risk.
Income and expenses are, where possible, matched in the currency of individual subsidiaries.
We also use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate transactional and investment exposure to currency movements.
In Private Banking, market risk is monitored and managed at a local level and by the Private Banking Risk Committee.
Investment The management of investment The Schroder Investment Risk Framework provides review and challenge performance performance risk is a core skill of of investment risks across each of the asset classes managed by the Group.
This is the risk that The Investment Risk team is independent of the Investment function.
portfolios will not meet their investment objectives.
This can We adhere to clearly-dened investment processes which seek to meet investment adversely affect levels of net new targets within stated risk parameters.
Individual portfolio performance, valuations business.
and risk proles are monitored by fund managers and management on a regular basis, as well as Pricing and Valuation Committees, allowing issues to be identied and mitigated.
Recognising that products will not outperform all of the time, we offer a diversied product set which reduces the concentration of risk on the performance of any one fund or asset class.
Investment performance is monitored as part of our investment risk management process.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk, in relation to client To mitigate this risk within client portfolios, we seek to match, where possible, portfolios, is the risk that funds the liquidity of a portfolios underlying investments with the anticipated liquidity cannot be generated to meet requirements.
We actively monitor markets for indicators of declines in liquidity.
redemptions or other obligations We also review products and portfolios to identify capacity constraints.
Liquidity issues can arise as a result of market Each of our regulated subsidiaries, and the Group as a whole, meet regulatory capital conditions or through inherently requirements.
In addition, we maintain sufficient liquidity for our anticipated needs, illiquid investments.
Liquidity risk taking account of the risks we face.
also applies to the Groups own capital position.
We have developed a new Individual Liquidity Analysis Assessment ILAA and implemented improved liquidity analysis and reporting in Private Banking in London.
32 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Financial Control and Regulatory Reporting monitor unusual transactions or patterns of transactions and provide assurance in reporting to regulators.
Credit risk We face risks from the default of counterparties to our principal financial transactions.
Our clients also face counterparty risk in relation to the financial transactions in their portfolios and funds.
Private Banking additionally faces principal credit risk on its lending activities.
Key risk Description How we manage risk Credit risk We face credit risk as a result In order to manage this risk we actively monitor counterparty creditworthiness with of counterparty exposure.
limits expressed in terms of value and term to maturity.
The Group sets overall limits in respect of both principal and agency counterparty risk.
Where possible, we seek to diversify our exposure across different counterparties.
All counterparties are reviewed on a regular basis and limits are amended following changes to their nancials.
We actively monitor market data and rating agency outputs in assessing counterparties.
Collateral is taken in most cases.
We face credit risk through Private In Private Banking, we mitigate credit risk where possible through collateralisation Banking lending activities.
in the form of cash, portfolio investments or property.
Credit risk is monitored and managed against the performance of the collateral.
Operational risk Operational risk arises in our investment management activities, distribution activities, product development and the operation of our IT and operations infrastructure.
Local management is responsible for operational risk controls.
Key risk Description How we manage risk Operational risk Operational risk could arise All business processes are subject to review in order to identify suitable from the failure of significant operational controls to mitigate potential risks.
business processes undertaken by Schroders, including mandate compliance and suitability.
We have a number of outsourced Before entering outsourcing arrangements, we undertake due diligence supplier relationships that are an on third-party suppliers.
We then maintain a programme of regular assessment important part of our business against agreed service levels.
model, particularly in respect of fund administration services.
Distribution risk Distribution risk arises from The broad range of distribution channels mitigates against a key dependency relationship management and on any sales channel.
concentration across different distribution channels and No single client accounts for more than two per cent.
We have three broad client groups: institutional clients, often advised by consultants: retail clients, intermediated through banks, brokers and independent advisers: and private clients.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Key risks and mitigations continued Operational risk continued Key risk Description How we manage risk Product risk Product risk arises from product We have a dedicated Product Development team and a product approval complexity and the risk these and review procedure.
We consider carefully the suitability of products for products do not meet their clients and where possible, monitor the way products are sold.
performance objectives or are unsuitable for certain clients.
Product risk can also arise from We actively monitor potential capacity constraints and may mitigate them capacity constraints where the by closing products to new investment in certain circumstances.
size of assets under management in a particular asset class makes it more difficult to trade efficiently in the market.
Technology We rely on technology and We regularly review the progress of major information technology projects and new risk qualied professionals to maintain projects are subject to rigorous testing before approval.
Our technology is partly our infrastructure, and we invest in outsourced and our platform uses well-established, tested technology from information technology projects outsource partners which we assess to be nancially stable and able to provide with long lead times.
the required level of service.
Outsource partners are an important part of our business model and we work with them to maintain the quality and continuity of service.
Due diligence is undertaken before entering into new arrangements and performance is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Continuity and business resumption planning is in place across the business globally.
People risk Our business depends on people.
We recruit and develop specialist skills as the range of our product offerings deepens We ensure we employ people and our investment and distribution strategies develop into new areas.
with skill sets appropriate to our changing business needs.
To mitigate people risks, we have competitive remuneration plans, with appropriate deferred benets targeted at key employees, and we seek to build strength in depth and put in place sustainable succession plans.
We also operate from many international centres, which reduces reliance on single pools of talent and individual country stability.
We expect our employees to Clear objectives are set for employees and we measure individual success in the behave with integrity, which annual review process.
This allows us to identify motivational employee development is one of our core values.
initiatives, which helps to retain talented people.
We demand high ethical standards and train our employees accordingly.
34 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review The Legal function works with the business to consider the obligations we assume.
Operational risk continued Key risk Description How we manage risk Geographical Our business is broadly diversied We employ local people with local expertise and also second employees diversity risk by region which, whilst mitigating internationally within the Group.
aggregate risk, introduces risks as a result of complexity, local laws, The Group Risk Committee receives reports from line management regarding regulations, business customs matters giving cause for concern and recommendations for appropriate and traditions.
We keep our employees up-to-date on relevant international regulation.
An independent team, reporting to the Group Head of Risk, is responsible for assessing the impact of material issues and implementing appropriate and timely risk mitigation.
Our overseas operations are regularly reviewed by Internal Audit.
Legal risk The risk that Schroders or its We rely on our employees, with support from our Legal function, to consider carefully counterparties fail to meet their the obligations we assume and our compliance with them.
legal obligations and the risk of legal proceedings.
Conrmations are obtained from representatives around the Group that any actual or potential dispute or claim has been brought promptly to the attention of the General Counsel.
Regulatory and The risk of loss arising from failure We maintain compliance procedures across our global ofces, and our Global compliance risk to meet regulatory requirements in Compliance function supports business management in meeting its obligations.
those jurisdictions in which Compliance with relevant regulatory requirements is monitored in accordance the Group operates.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35 Key risks and mitigations continued Key continuing risks The key continuing risks outlined on pages 32 to 35 have been assessed in the light of the current economic and geopolitical environment as summarised in the diagram below.
The horizontal axis shows whether risk is stable or heightened in current market conditions.
The vertical axis shows whether the potential cost of the key risk is stable or has increased due to current market conditions.
The Group undertakes additional work to address those risks that it considers to be potentially heightened and or more costly.
People risk: Employment practices and workplace safety 2.
Geographical diversity: Disasters and public safety 4 7 11 3.
Operational risk: Clients, products and business practices 6.
Operational risk: Technology and infrastructure failures 6 3 8.
Operational risk: Execution, delivery and process management 9.
Counterparty credit risk 10. Credit lending risk 11.
Market risk 9 10 Risk stable Heightened risk Key emerging risks Emerging risks are those with uncertain impact, probability and timeframe that could cause risk to the Group.
These are the hardest to define and may change in nature.
We analyse each risk and, if needed, develop and apply mitigation and management plans.
The external emerging risks that are currently our focus of attention are set out below.
The diagram indicates our assessment of the likelihood, timeframe and impact on our business.
The estimated impact and likelihood may change as circumstances change and mitigation plans are developed.
Regulatory risks are reported on the following page.
Argentina 3 2 12 10 1 5 7 11 14 4 HM L Impact Market Other Client competitor Within 12 months Uncertain Regulatory political Counterparty third party Time 36 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Likelihood Certain Uncertain Cost stable Cost increased Business review Asset managers are updating their governance, risk and fiduciary processes in response to regulatory change.
Key regulatory change risks The extent of regulatory change facing the asset management and private banking industries has increased signicantly in recent years.
As part of our risk reporting, we have introduced the following diagram that combines both known and emerging regulatory change risks, to identify both the likely timing and estimated impact of regulatory change on our business.
15 Compensation Scheme levy Authority's common 23 2.
Vickers report impact regulatory reporting 13 3.
Basel III Capital RDR for platforms 24 16 14.
EU Securities Law Directive CRD IV 16.
MiFID II and Resolution Plans 11 17 6.
Anti-Money Laundering Resolution Plans 7 4 19 AML 18.
Client Asset Sourcebook Infrastructure Regulation 12 10 CASS revision EMIR OTC market reform 6 9.
FSA change to FCA PRA Within 1 year Within 2 years Over 2 years Time Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Group Impact High Medium Low
