Risk Management Report he mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks are an integral part of the management processes Tof the Group.
Understanding the risks we face, and managing them appropriately, enables effective decision-making, contributes to our competitive advantage and helps us to achieve our business objectives as set out on pages 8 and 9.
Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework enables the continuous identification and assessment of risks that may impact on the successful delivery of our Group business objectives.
Overseeing our Risk Management Framework is the Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee is made up of Non-executive Board members responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
Further information setting out the activities of the Risk Committee is on pages 60 and 61.
The Risk Committee is supported by a Risk Executive Committee and Risk Management team which are responsible for ensuring that an appropriate framework is in place and for the on-going development and co-ordination of risk management within SJP.
Each division of the Group is responsible for identifying, managing and reporting its risks as part of a quarterly process.
Each risk is assessed by considering its potential impact and the probability of its occurrence.
Impact assessments are made against financial and non-financial metrics.
The Risk Management team support divisions in this activity.
This process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place for all of the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and accords with the Guidance for Directors in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A diagram showing the key aspects of our Risk Management Framework is set out below.
Risk Management Framework Group Risk Appetite Business Managers Risk Policies Risk Management &YFDVUJWF 0WFSTJHIU Management and Capitalisation of Risks Team #PBSE 0WFSTJHIU Group Risk Management Information Business Units r 3JTL 4DIFEVMF rPTT EBUB r 3JTL $POUSPM.
FFUJOH Risk Appetite and Risk Policies At the centre of our Risk Management Framework is the Risk Appetite Statement.
In our Risk Appetite Statement, the Board clearly sets out risk boundaries i. e. a specification of the types of risks the Group is willing to take and to what extent.
The Statement is regularly reviewed and updated to ensure that it continues to outline the values which drive how the Group conducts itself.
It also sets out how the Group operates in its chosen business and specifies appropriate metrics for monitoring compliance.
In support of our Risk Appetite Statement, we have a number of Risk Policies which clearly establish our objectives, principles and high level management activity in relation to each of the main types of risk that the Group faces.
When analysing risk, we use these categories to help improve understanding and management of our exposure.
30 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk Schedules and Key Risk Indicators Corporate and Divisional risk schedules and quarterly Key Risk Indicator reports are produced to facilitate the monitoring of risks by the Risk Executive Committee, Risk Committee and Board.
The Risk Management and Finance functions also regularly monitor risk capital.
These schedules and indicators provide a mechanism for capturing and considering the significant risks facing the business.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The following tables summarise the principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
These principal risks and uncertainties, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are as follows: Risk Description Management Advice Advice given by an individual Partner Advice guidelines are agreed by technical specialists and or authorised by the Group is deemed reviewed by Group management.
These guidelines are unsuitable leading to redress, costs, supported by Training and Accreditation arrangements with potential reputational damage and close compliance monitoring to ensure the advice guidelines prospective retrospective regulatory are followed.
Appropriate incentives exist to promote intervention.
Partner compliance, whilst non-compliance is subject to censure and other sanctions.
The Group also has appropriate professional indemnity insurance in place.
Distribution The Groups distribution strength may We employ a number of specialist managers specifically to Capability be eroded due to an inability to recruit manage the recruitment and retention of high quality and retain Partners of the appropriate Partners.
Formal retention strategies are in place to ensure quality.
that, wherever possible, we retain good quality and experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
We are also continuing with the SJP Academy, overseen by a dedicated senior management team, to broaden our recruitment streams.
Ethos Changes to the SJP ethos and culture We have a range of strategic mechanisms in place including, adversely impact the continuing for example, regular surveys and consultation groups, which success of the business.
enable us to monitor the sentiment of our staff and Partners, to identify any potential adverse impacts upon our culture and allow us to take action.
Investment Our approach to investment We actively manage and monitor the performance of our Management management may fail to deliver investment managers through the Investment Committee Approach expected returns to clients of the which also makes use of a firm of professional advisers Group.
Stamford Associates to help them with this key task.
At the same time, and to ensure clients can manage their risk as well, we offer a broad range of funds, which allows diversification and mitigates new business, persistency and market risks.
Market Changes A new entrant or competitor in the We closely monitor competitor activity and the market adviser-based wealth management place, for signs of any potential new entrants or threats, for market has an impact on the success example, a crowding of the high net worth market place if of SJPs business.
firms concentrate on wealthier clients.
As noted above, we have a proven track record in Partner acquisition and retention, which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge SJPs position.
In addition, more established SJP Partners often have significant equity stakes in their practices and their ability to access these is structured to aid retention.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Risk Management Report continued Risk Description Management Outsourcing The Groups dependence on We maintain close working relationships with our outsourcing may come under threat outsourced business partners to ensure we would have should any of its key investment warning of any material change that would significantly management or administration impact our business model.
All relationships are governed business partners decide to exit the by formal agreements with notice periods and full exit market, significantly revise their management plans, and if required, strong alternative strategy or fail.
providers exist in the market.
Business continuity arrangements of each outsourcer are continually tested and improved and scenario analysis carried out.
Regulatory, That the Group could face a fine or Our governance structures, management committees and Legislative and regulatory censure from failure to compliance monitoring activities seek to ensure we remain Tax Environment comply with applicable regulations, compliant with regulation.
Our active approach to or that changes in the wider maintaining an open and mutually beneficial relationship regulatory, legislative or tax with our regulator provides intelligence to mitigate the risk environment could have an adverse of operating in a highly regulated sector.
Membership of impact on the Groups business.
appropriate trade bodies can also provide information about proposed changes.
The Group also engages the services of public relations and communications consultants.
Retail Market adjustments following the Although we have successfully implemented the changes Distribution implementation of the changes required by the new rules, some uncertainty remains about Review adversely impact the Group.
how clients and the financial services market place will react in the medium to long-term to the new regime.
During the course of this year, any impact will become clearer, but we believe the strength of the client relationships, on which our business is built, should help mitigate any adverse effect.
Other Key Risks and Uncertainties In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties mentioned above there are other key risks and uncertainties that are inherent within the businesses and markets in which we operate.
These are detailed in the following table under the relevant risk categories, together with the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate these risks.
32 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial risks Risk Description Management Credit The risk of loss due to a debtors The Group has adopted a risk averse non-payment of a loan or other line of approach to credit risk and has a stated credit, including holdings of cash and policy of not actively pursuing or cash equivalents, deposits and formal accepting credit risk except when loans with banks and financial necessary to support other objectives.
Liquidity The risk that the Group, although The Group is averse to liquidity risk solvent, either does not have available and seeks to minimise this risk by not sufficient financial resources to enable actively pursuing it except where it to meet its obligations as they fall necessary to support other objectives.
due, or can secure such resources only Generally free assets are invested in at excessive cost.
cash or near cash assets and the Groups cash position and forecast are monitored on a monthly basis.
Market The risk of loss due to the impact of The Group adopts a risk averse movement in the value of equity or approach to market risk, with a stated other assets markets.
solvency policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
Generally, free assets are invested in cash or near cash to minimise market movement impact.
However, future profits are dependent on annual management charges which will vary with market movements.
Insurance The risk that arises from inherent The Group has a medium appetite for uncertainties as to the occurrence, insurance risk, only actively pursuing amount and timing of insurance it where beneficial, or in support of liabilities.
The Group assumes strategic objectives.
The Group insures insurance risk by issuing insurance mortality and morbidity risks but has contracts under which it agrees to no longevity risk as we have never compensate the client if a specified written annuity business.
Economic Environment A major and prolonged economic We closely monitor the performance downturn, a Euro area country against our business plan, the countries default or stock market crash behaviour of the markets and leads to a significant underconsumer confidence through the use performance of the business plan.
of daily Management Information circulated to senior management.
This should help us to identify early signals of the impact of a market decline, so that we can manage expenses and adjust our strategy appropriately.
Further detail about the Groups exposure to financial risks is included in Note 27 to the consolidated accounts.
