k k SVG Capital plc Annual report 24 2012 Business review continued Principal Risks, Risk Management and Risk Oversight Senior management and the Board take their responsibilities to oversee and assess the effectiveness Arrows: change in net risk assessment from2011 ofthe Companys risk management processes very seriously.
In 2012 the Board conducted a selfassessment of its overall performance and concluded that additional focus on board risk oversight and Net risk has increased corporate risk management processes was warranted.
The Company engaged the services of Risk Oversight Inc. to independently assess the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and Level of net risk is unchanged vk oversight framework.
As a result of this assessment, the Company has implemented a new framework to assess, manage and oversee risk that puts more focus on identifying, measuring and managing Net risk has decreased risks to the Companys key strategic value creation objectives, as well as traditional risks that have potential to negatively impact shareholder value.
Details of the new risk management framework are available on the Companys website in the Governance section.
TheCompanys Audit Committee, the Committee assigned primary responsibility for assessing andoverseeing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and oversight processes, wasprovided with a brieng on global developments in the area of board oversight of risk and emerging best practices and reviewed and approved the Companys new risk management policy attheir meeting on 12February 2013.
The Companies Act and the Financial Reporting Council require companies to disclose the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company.
The Company has a formal process to identify, evaluate and manage the risks that the Company faces.
Output from that process was used as an input to this years disclosure.
The process was further enhanced as a result of an independent assessment of the Companys risk management framework and public disclosures processes in December 2012 and January 2013.
Additional changes will be made, if appropriate, to the Companys risk management framework in 2013 as the Company implements the new risk management policy.
Principal risks and uncertainties are dened by us as risks with the highest overall potential to affect the achievement of the Companys business objectives.
Principal risks and uncertainties Change from 2011 Key risk treatments Current market, political and t continual discussion on the performance of portfolio companies vk economic uncertainty may with underlying fund managers, to verify that the companies affect the returns earned by arereacting to uncertainty.
A sale of fund interests would be This risk was assessed as stable the Company and the trading considered if thought appropriate in 2012.
While certain risks price and value of its Ordinary t ongoing monitoring of market, political and economic stabilised in 2012 for example, Shares developments collapse of the EU and the t hedging of foreign currency risks, where appropriate USscal cliff there remains significant global uncertainty Borrowing and funding risk t the Board considers detailed cash ow forecasts at each Board may prevent the Company meeting.
Realisation proceeds from existing investments can from paying its unfunded beused to pay uncalled commitments and repay borrowing This risk was assessed as commitments or repay its debt t the Board reviews gearing at each Board meeting and imposes decreasing in 2012 due to limits on borrowings and new commitments thedecrease in unfunded commitments to 91.7 million t the Company has the benefit of a revolving credit facility of 2011: 170.2 million and 150million available until 31 December 2015 which can increase in cash to 269.4 beusedto meet obligations in the absence of distributions million 2011: 121.0 million.
t the Company can dispose of assets, raise capital or renegotiate theterms of borrowing or investments TheCompany has 150.9 million ofunsecured Senior Notes in issue, and100.7 million of subordinated convertible loannotes due in2016 k SVG Capital plc Business Corporate Financial Company Annual report Overview review information information information 2012 25 Principal risks and uncertainties Change from 2011 Key risk treatments Concentration risk may result t the Board considers the performance of its largest portfolio in the performance of the companies in detail periodically and can dispose of fund Company being unduly commitments This risk was assessed as affected by the performance t the Company has changed its Investment Objective to evolve increasing due to the increased of one or a small group of froma concentrated, single manager investor to one that is more concentration of the portfolio underlying investee diversied.
No new commitments were made in the year, butthe as Permira exited certain companies.
The Companys Company has announced a commitment to a new manager since investments, while no new largest individual underlying year end commitments were made company holding represents inthe period 38.8% of the gross management buy-out portfolio and the Top 10 largest underlying holdings represents 91.4% of the gross management buy-out portfolio.
In addition, the portfolio is concentrated by sector with retail accounting for 43% by value and chemicals 23% by value Currency risk may impact t the Company continually monitors foreign exchange risk vk returns received by the t the Company has the ability to hedge against foreign currency Company as the majority of movements.
The Board has taken out currency swaps to mitigate This risk was assessed as stable.
itsassets are denominated the currency risk associated with the portion of Companys Following the sale of Galaxy inforeign currency.
Many liabilities that are denominated in US$ Entertainment, the Company is investee companies are no longer exposed to HK$ international and therefore currency risk.
However, the exposed to multiple currencies majority of the Companys In addition, certain liabilities assets continue to be are denominated in foreign denominated in foreign currencies currency The Companys excess t the Company has a rigorous process to select and oversee where vk liquidity is invested in bank itinvests surplus funds.
This includes detailed analysis of the credit accounts and money market worthiness and historical track record of the financial institutions This risk has been added to the funds until the capital being considered, or in use, and ongoing monitoring of national principal risks and uncertainties isrequired to fund new and international developments that have potential to undermine disclosed in prior year investments and general the safety and soundness of those rms corporate costs.
The safety and soundness of the investments made with these funds represents a risk The Company invests in funds t the Company performs extensive due-diligence on the private vk managed by private equity equity managers that it invests with, which includes assessing managers, who in turn select theadequacy of the risk management frameworks they use, This risk has been added to the and oversee underlying andmonitoring their performance principal risks and uncertainties investee companies.
The disclosed in prior year expertise, due diligence, risk management skills and integrity of the private equity fund managers selected by the Company is key to the success of the Company k
