Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 15 Principal risks and uncertainties Carpetright recognises that effective business management requires regular review of business risks to identify, evaluate and prioritise them, to assign management ownership and to ensure appropriate controls are in place to provide mitigation.
The process for identification of business risks is described on page 22 of this report.
The risk factors addressed below are those which we believe could adversely affect the operations, revenue, profit, cash flow or assets of the Group.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to us, or which we currently believe are immaterial, may also have an adverse affect on the Group.
We use our risk management process to identify, monitor, evaluate and escalate such issues as they emerge, enabling management to take appropriate action wherever possible in order to control them and also enabling the Board to keep risk management under review.
Business Objective and Strategies The primary financial objective of the Group is to deliver long term sustainable growth in earnings per share and cash flow.
The strategies that we are following to achieve this are set out on page 6 of this report.
We face a number of strategic and operational risks which are set out below, together with the controls and actions which mitigate the impact of those risks.
Risk Description Mitigation Development and execution of a strategy: The Board holds an annual strategy day and from this business plans are developed to ensure targets are both set and resourced The business requires a strategy that responds to the challenges appropriately.
of the market place so as to position itself for long-term growth.
Regular monitoring of performance against plan is carried out to ensure targets are being achieved and that they remain relevant to and focused on the Group strategy.
Economic uncertainty: Throughout the year we have continued to monitor the effectiveness of our pricing, promotional and marketing The economy is a major influence on consumer spending.
strategies across our businesses, tailoring our consumer Trends in employment, inflation, taxation, consumer debt offering where appropriate.
levels and interest rates impact consumer expenditure in discretionary areas.
Changes in Government policies may also affect our consumers ability to purchase our products and services.
Cost control: We have a budgetary and planning process which has been developed to ensure that there is an appropriate budget for both In the event we are unable to control our costs the financial operational costs and capital expenditure.
There is a system of results of the Group will be adversely affected.
authorisation to prevent costs being incurred without appropriate authorisation and being in excess of budget.
In addition we continually focus on our cost base to ensure that we are able to manage our margins.
Reputation: We have mitigation strategies in place to manage our other risks, thereby reducing the chance of them arising.
In the event that The failure to properly mitigate and manage other risks may there is a threat of reputational damage, there is a process in place manifest itself by damaging Carpetrights reputation.
This may to deal with enquiries from the press, investors and others, as well lead to a lack of confidence by consumers, thereby adversely as social media.
This table continues overleaf www.
