THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Developed Europe Index in Sterling adjusted to exclude Paribas Securities Services, and company secretarial services by Capita Company Secretarial Services.
those stocks with a market cap exceeding a defined level or Cap.
The Cap is redefined each year by reference to The significant terms of the investment management the overall capital movement of the Small Cap Index over agreement with Thames River are as follows: the preceding Financial Year.
For the year to 31 March Notice Period 2012 the Cap was 1.1bn.
For the year to 31 March The investment management agreements IMAs 2013, the Cap will be 0.97bn.
provide for termination of the agreements by either The constituents are reviewed annually.
In order to avoid party without compensation on the provision of not volatility, at the annual review, only companies with a less than 12 months written notice.
Sterling equivalent market capitalisation of 20% or more in Management Fees excess of the revised Cap will leave the benchmark.
Ordinary share class Existing EPRA Developed Europe constituents join only if The fee for the Ordinary share class for the period their Sterling equivalent market capitalisation is 20% or under review was a fixed fee of 2,782,500 plus an more less than the revised Cap.
During the year, any ad valorem fee of 0.20% pa based on the net asset company joining the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed value determined in accordance with the Association Europe Total Return Index will also join the small cap index of Investment Companies AIC method of if the Sterling equivalent of their market capitalisation is valuation of the Ordinary share class on the last day less than the defined Cap at the time of entry.
of March, June, September and December, payable On a total return basis the Sigma share class returned quarterly in advance.
-13.6% against a Benchmark total return of -12.1%.
The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of the From 1 April 2012 the benchmark for the share class will financial year, and for the year to March 2013 the fixed be the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Europe Net Total fee element will be reduced to 2,754,325 with no Return Index in Sterling.
This benchmark is calculated in change to the ad valorem fee.
The fee arrangements will exactly the same way as the previous benchmark, however, be reviewed once again at the end of the financial year.
it takes into account the fact that dividends are generally Sigma share class received net of withholding tax.
This is considered to be a The fee for the Sigma share class for the period closer representation of the Companys own position than under review was a fixed fee of 682,500 plus an the gross of tax benchmark, and will present a fairer ad valorem fee of 0.30% pa based on the net asset reflection of the Companys performance and also enable value determined in accordance with the AIC some simplification of the performance fee arrangement method of valuation of the Sigma share class on which is described in detail later in this Statement.
the last day of March, June, September and The performance for the financial year just ended and the December, payable quarterly in advance.
outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background the financial year, and for the year to March 2013 the and Outlook and Sigma Share Class Managers Report on fixed fee element will be reduced to 675,675 with pages 6 to 14 and 31 to 34. no change to the ad valorem fee.
The fee Share Buy-back Activity arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end During the year to 31 March 2012, the Company of the financial year.
Since 1 April 2012 For both share classes the management fee includes to the date of this report, the Company repurchased fund accounting and administrative services, safe 250,000 Sigma shares.
custody and company secretarial services which are all Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk provided by third parties.
The Company has a direct By its nature as an investment trust, the portfolios of both contractual relationship with the parties providing share classes are exposed to market price risk, foreign these services and the fees incurred are deducted currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys policies from the gross fees due to Thames River.
This affords for managing these risks are outlined in note 11 to the Company a high degree of transparency and the financial statements.
Further information on the control in respect of these services.
management of risk and internal controls is contained in Performance Fees the Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 60.
In addition to the management fees, the Board has Management Arrangements and Fees agreed to pay the Investment Manager performance Throughout the period investment management services related fees in respect of an accounting period if have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP, certain performance objectives are achieved.
For the accounting, custodial and administrative services by BNP year under review the arrangements were: 50 TR Property Investment Trust
