Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review continued The regional senior management are reliant on various support RISK MANAGEMENT and control functions in the discharge of their risk management responsibilities, most notably the regional Credit, Operations, This section sets out a summary of how risk is managed by the Compliance, Legal and Finance departments.
Group, covering the risk management governance structure, the risk management framework, and a description and analysis of the Compliance Groups risk profile.
The Groups Compliance departments monitor compliance with the various regulatory requirements to which the Group is subject, Risk management governance structure including those imposed by the UK regulatory regime and those Introduction imposed by the regulatory framework of the other jurisdictions in The Groups risk management governance structure is based on the which the Group operates.
The compliance officers are in regular three lines of defence principle which segregates risk management contact with the regional management and compliance reports are first line of defence from risk oversight second line of defence made to the Board on a regular basis.
and risk assurance third line of defence.
Credit risk management Risk management is embedded throughout the business, with the The Groups Credit departments are responsible for monitoring overall risk appetite and risk management strategy being approved the creditworthiness of the Groups counterparties and for the by the Board, and then propagated down throughout the business proactive monitoring of counterparty credit exposure against as appropriate.
The principal elements of the Groups risk pre-determined reporting thresholds set by the relevant regional management governance structure are set out below.
credit committee, as well as for providing senior management and the other control functions with timely and accurate reporting of The systems of internal control operated by the Group are designed the Groups credit exposure.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not Operations Settlements absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Operations departments play a key role in establishing procedures and monitoring the exposure to risks arising in Matched The Board Principal activities.
Controls include the reconciliation of cash, client The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite, money and securities positions: the monitoring and resolution of defining the type and level of risk that the Group is willing to accept late-settling trades and resultant cash positions: and the in pursuit of its business objectives.
The Board sets down in the identification and control of non-standard transactions.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework how the Groups risk exposure must be managed in line with the Groups overall Finance business objectives and within its stated risk appetite.
This includes The Groups regional Finance departments are responsible for the governance of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, implementing and monitoring the relevant financial controls, and managing and reporting the significant risks faced by the Group.
for providing management with timely and accurate reporting of financial performance against budget and other measures.
The Board is responsible for approving the Risk Assessment Framework, which is used to ensure that the Group has a Second line of defence risk oversight comprehensive understanding of its risk profile, including both The second line of defence consists of the Groups risk oversight existing and emerging risks facing the Group, and to enable it to functions, principally the Group Risk Control function and the assess the adequacy of its risk management policies in the context Group Treasury and Risk Committee GTRC as well as certain of the Groups risk appetite.
The Risk Assessment Framework business support functions which undertake a risk oversight process includes an assessment of the controls in place to manage activity in addition to their primary roles, most notably the each risk identified, and the identification of any changes required Compliance and Finance departments.
Group Risk Control The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains Group Risk Control is independent of the business and is sufficient capital and liquidity resources, both to meet its responsible for monitoring the Groups risk exposure and regulatory capital and liquidity requirements and to support its developing risk management policies to ensure that the Group growth and strategic objectives.
operates in accordance with the Groups risk appetite.
In fulfilling this duty, it provides daily and monthly risk reports to senior The Board is responsible for approving the Groups ICAAP in which management which are reviewed by the GTRC.
The Group Treasurer the Group documents its assessment of the adequacy of its capital and Head of Risk Control reports to the Group Finance Director.
and liquidity resources, in accordance with FSA requirements.
Group Treasury and Risk Committee First line of defence risk management The members of the GTRC are the Chief Executive, who acts as Business management chairman, the Group Finance Director and the Group Treasurer and The first line of defence is the regional senior management who Head of Group Risk Control.
The minutes of the GTRC are circulated have primary responsibility for ensuring that risks are clearly to the Board.
owned and managed on a day to day basis, that systems of control operate effectively and that the Groups risk exposure remains within the prescribed risk tolerances set out in the Groups Risk Management Policies.
16 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The responsibilities of the GTRC are: The findings of all internal audits undertaken are reported to the Audit Committee, and actions taken by management in response to review the risks arising in the Groups businesses and the to the findings are tracked and reported to the Audit Committee.
adequacy of controls, including limits and minimum control The Audit Committee approved the internal audit plan for 2013 at standards established to mitigate and monitor such risks: its December 2012 meeting.
to monitor the implementation and effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit also provides an independent reporting facility under risk management framework: the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements.
to make recommendations on risk appetite to the Board: Risk Management Framework Enterprise Risk Management Framework to set the Groups risk tolerance for the various risks faced by The Group recognises that a strong culture of risk management the Group: is essential for the financial strength and resilience of the Group, and for the achievement of its business objectives.
The Board to monitor the Groups risk profile against its Risk Appetite acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring that the Group has an Statements and tolerances: and appropriately robust framework of risk governance and controls in place at all times and across all risk categories, which both complies to make recommendations for improvements to the control with all applicable regulatory requirements and is in line with infrastructure or risk management processes.
The Groups risk management framework is set out in the Enterprise Risk Management Framework.
The Business support functions exercising oversight Enterprise Risk Management Framework documents the core Certain business support functions undertake specific risk principles, key components and key responsibilities of the risk oversight activities in addition to their first line of defence risk management framework adopted by the Board to manage the management activities.
Groups risk exposure in line with the Groups overall business objectives and within its stated risk appetite.
Operations departments key oversight activities include the Risk Appetite Statements monitoring of residual balances and failed settlements, as well The Groups Risk Appetite Statements define the type and level as the review of cancels and corrects trade amendments.
of risk that the Group is willing to accept in pursuit of its business objectives.
The Groups Risk Appetite Statements are approved by Compliance departments the regional Compliance departments the Board in the context of the Groups strategy.
The Risk Appetite are responsible for investigating any suspicious broker or market Statements are articulated at the levels of general risk types that activity, with the Head of Compliance acting as the Groups Money could impact on the business objectives set by the Board.
Risk Appetite Statement is translated into high level measures and tolerances.
Finance departments Finance departments review financial results and balance sheets and investigate any unusual or In accordance with the Risk Appetite Statements set by the Board, unexpected results.
the Group does not actively seek risk in order to generate a return but is willing to accept a limited amount of risk as a consequence Third line of defence independent assurance of its broking activities, principally counterparty credit risk and The third line of defence consists of the Groups risk assurance operational risk.
This is reflected in the business model adopted by functions, principally the Internal Audit function which reports to the Group whereby it acts only as an intermediary in the financial the Audit Committee of the Board.
markets and does not trade for its own account.
Internal Audit Risk Assessment Framework  were appointed to act as the Groups The Risk Assessment Framework process ensures that the Group internal auditor in December 2007, following an extensive review of has a comprehensive understanding of its risk profile, including internal audit arrangements by the Audit Committee.
both existing and emerging risks faced by the Group, and to enable it to assess the adequacy of its risk management policies in the The objectives of Internal Audit are to assess the effectiveness of context of the Groups Risk Appetite Statements.
the Groups risk management, internal controls and governance process: whether operational and financial controls are appropriate The Risk Assessment Framework identifies risks within nine risk and consistently applied: the effectiveness of internal controls for categories.
The risks within each category are analysed, mitigating the safeguarding of assets: the reliability and integrity of factors assessed, and relevant controls identified.
The risks are management information: and the adequacy of processes to then graded for their expected severity and probability, and ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Risk Assessment Framework process includes an assessment of the controls in place to manage each Internal audit work during 2012 covered the full audit universe risk identified, and the identification of any changes required to within the Group at different levels of intensity based upon the the control environment.
internal audit plan agreed with the Audit Committee in December 2011.
The plan was developed reflecting the results of a risk assessment exercise.
17 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review continued The Risk Assessment Framework is regularly updated and is ICAAP reviewed at least twice each year by the Board, with particular The FSA requires the Groups two active UK regulated firms to focus on high priority risks.
The Risk Assessment Framework is used undertake an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process in the Groups ICAAP process and to inform the scope of the ICAAP to assess the capital adequacy of each firm.
Through internal audit plan, as well as determining the frequency and this process the entities confirm that they hold sufficient capital content of the ongoing risk reporting provided by the Group Risk and liquidity resources in the context of their business objectives, Control function.
business model and risk profile, and the Groups risk management framework.
These ICAAP submissions are approved by the board of Risk Management Policies the relevant firm.
For each risk identified in the Risk Assessment Framework the Group adopts a Risk Management Policy.
These Risk Management The Group has been granted an Investment Firm Consolidation Policies prescribe the control framework to be implemented and Waiver, in accordance with which the Group is not subject to also set out the risk tolerances adopted by the Group, to manage consolidated capital adequacy requirements and so is not required each risk.
to prepare an ICAAP submission for the Group as a whole.
However, the Group still undertakes an assessment of the Groups capital Each risk management policy includes: adequacy for internal risk management purposes based on the ICAAP requirements.
a detailed description of the risk: Risk reporting the risk tolerance s adopted to manage the risk: The GTRC, Executive Directors and senior management receive appropriate information and exception reports to comply with the the control framework i. e. the key controls adopted to manage Groups Risk Management Policies, and to identify any new risks or the risk, specifying the member of senior management exposures that may arise.
These include reports detailing the responsible for its implementation: current status of existing controls, audits, loss events, and any required action plans to remedy any identified shortcomings in any sub-policies adopted to manage the risk: and the control environment.
the allocation of responsibility for monitoring the Groups Risk profile exposure to individual risks, and for risk reporting and escalation.
The Groups Risk Assessment Framework categorises the risks faced by the Group into nine risk categories: Market Risk, Credit Stress testing Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic and Business Risk, Governance Risk, The stress test regime operated by the Group is a core component Regulatory, Legal and Human Resources Risk, Reputational Risk, of the Groups risk management framework.
There are three Liquidity Risk and Other Financial Risks.
principal objectives in undertaking these stress tests: Market Risk to inform the Groups assessment of its risk profile, both in Market Risk is the vulnerability of the Group to movements in the respect of its existing business and also as regards any value of financial instruments.
The Group does not take trading risk potential changes to its business activities including and does not hold proprietary trading positions.
Consequently, potential acquisitions : the Group is exposed to Market Risk only in relation to incidental positions in financial instruments arising as a result of the Groups to test the ability of the Group to withstand the materialisation failure to match clients orders precisely.
Such positions are valued of the various risks identified in the Risk Assessment Framework, and measured from trade date on a daily mark-to-market basis.
in both normal and stressed conditions.
This entails an assessment of the adequacy of the Groups financial resources The Groups Risk Management Policies reduce the likelihood of both capital and liquidity and the potential management such trade mismatches and, in the event that they arise, the actions available to the Group to mitigate the effect of any such Groups policy is to close out such balances immediately.
All adverse events: and Market Risk arising across the Group is identified and monitored on a daily basis.
to identify any gaps in the Groups risk and control assessment process or deficiencies in the Groups Risk Management Policies, such as a potential weaknesses in the controls operated by the Group.
The Groups stress test regime seeks to incorporate the various requirements imposed by the Groups regulators, including those specified by the FSA.
18 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Credit Risk Cash deposits The Credit Risk faced by the Group consists of counterparty The Group is exposed to counterparty Credit Risk in respect of cash credit risk as opposed to issuer risk, and principally arises from deposits held with financial institutions.
The vast majority of the the following: Groups cash deposits are held with highly rated clearing banks and settlement organisations as set out in the Credit Risk analysis in pre-settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: Note 27 to the Accounts.
settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: As with trading counterparties, cash deposit counterparty exposures and limits are kept under review and steps are taken to cash deposits held at banks and money market instruments: reduce counterparty risk where market conditions require.
and Name Passing brokerage receivables Name Passing brokerage receivables.
The majority of transactions brokered by the Group are on a Name Passing basis, where the Group acts as agent in arranging the trade In addition to each individual element of counterparty risk and is not a counterparty to the transaction.
Whilst the Group does identified above, the Group is also exposed to concentration risk.
not suffer any exposure in relation to the underlying instrument This is where the Group becomes overly exposed to these credit brokered given that the Group is not a principal to the trade, it is exposures in the aggregate either to an individual counterparty or exposed to the risk that the client fails to pay the brokerage it is to a group of linked counterparties.
Receivables arising from Name Passing brokerage are closely monitored by senior management.
Pre-settlement risk Pre-settlement risk arises in the Matched Principal broking business Concentration risk in which Group subsidiaries interpose themselves as principal to The possibility of concentration risk exists in the level of exposure two or more contracting parties to a Matched Principal to counterparties.
The Group controls its credit exposure to transaction and as a result the Group is at risk of loss should one of counterparties and groups of linked counterparties through the the parties to a transaction default on its obligations prior to application of a system of counterparty credit limits based on the settlement date.
In the event of default, the Group would have to mark-to-market exposure for Matched Principal trades, outstanding replace the defaulted contract in the market.
This is a contingent brokerage receivables for Name Passing trades, and the amount risk in that the Group will only suffer loss if the market price of the on deposit for cash deposit exposure.
Credit departments also securities has moved adversely to the original trade price.
monitor exposures across country groupings and credit rating and sector categories.
Counterparty exposures are kept under constant review and the Group takes steps to reduce counterparty risk where market Operational Risk conditions require.
Particular attention is paid to more illiquid Operational Risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or markets where the price movement is more volatile, such as failed internal processes, people activities, systems or external broking in GDR, ADR and emerging markets instruments.
Operational Risk covers a wide and diverse range of risk types, and the overall objective of the Groups approach to operational risk management is not to attempt to avoid all The Group is also exposed to short term pre-settlement risk where potential risks, but to proactively identify and assess risks and risk it acts as an executing broker on an exchange, during the period between the execution of the trade and the client claiming the situations in order to manage them in an efficient and informed trade.
This exposure is minimal as under the terms of the give-up manner.
Examples of Operational Risk include: agreements the Group has in place with its clients, trades must be claimed by the end of trade day.
Once the trade has been IT systems failures, breakdown in security or loss of data claimed, the Groups only exposure to the client is for the integrity: invoiced receivables.
failure or disruption of a critical business process, through internal or external error or event: Settlement risk Settlement risk is the risk that on settlement date a counterparty failure or withdrawal of settlement and clearing systems, or defaults on its contractual obligation to make payment for a errors in instructions: securities transaction after the corresponding value has been paid away by the Group.
Unlike pre-settlement risk, the exposure is to events preventing access to premises, telecommunications the full principal value of the transaction.
failures or loss of power supply which interrupt business activities: and In practice the Group is not exposed to this risk as settlement is almost invariably effected on a Delivery versus Payment basis.
of payment deliveries where an immediate exposure arises due to the Groups settling its side of the transaction without Operational Risk is managed through a combination of effective, simultaneous receipt of the countervalue occur very infrequently relevant and proportionate controls.
The policy of devolved and only under the application of stringent controls.
responsibility within the Group places the emphasis for the management of Operational Risk on the senior management of each business unit.
19 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review continued Strategic and Business Risk The risk of accounting error or fraud is mitigated by the strong The Group operates in an environment characterised by intense control environment which exists within the Group, in particular competition, rapid technological change and a continually evolving the involvement of the Audit Committee, the Internal Audit regulatory framework.
Failure to adapt to changing market function and the GTRC.
Succession planning within the Group dynamics, customer requirements or the way OTC markets and is overseen by the Board.
their participants are regulated constitutes a significant long term risk.
The Group has identified four principal categories of Strategic Regulatory, Legal and Human Resource Risk and Business Risk: This risk concerns the potential loss of value due to regulatory enforcement action such as for breaches of conduct of business direct regulatory risk: requirements or market abuse provisions : the possible costs and penalties associated with litigation: and the possibility of a failure indirect regulatory risk: to retain and motivate key members of staff.
The Group also faces the risk that changes in applicable laws and regulations could have lower market activity risk: and a serious adverse impact on the business.
The Groups lead regulator is the FSA, but the Group is also subject to the requirements imposed by the regulatory framework of the other jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Groups Direct regulatory risk compliance officers monitor compliance with applicable The risk of new regulations imposing a fundamental change to the regulations and report regularly to the Board.
The Groups Legal structure or activity of financial markets, resulting in a reduced role department oversees contracts entered into by Group companies, for interdealer brokers.
Specific issues could include an inability of and manages litigation which arises from time to time.
Salaries, the business to provide electronic platforms or market facilities bonuses and other benefits are designed to be competitive and the which are compliant with new regulations or the obligation to hold Groups HR function monitors staff turnover on an ongoing basis.
punitive levels of regulatory capital.
Reputational Risk Indirect regulatory risk Reputational Risk is the risk that the Groups ability to do business The risk of a fundamental change to the commercial environment might be damaged as a result of its reputation being tarnished.
due to the impact on clients of changes to their regulatory Clients rely on the Groups integrity and probity.
The Group has environment causing significantly reduced trade volumes.
This policies and procedures in place to manage this risk to the extent could include increased execution and clearing costs, onerous possible, which include conduct of business rules, procedures for collateral requirements or increases in regulatory capital employee hiring and the taking on of new business.
requirements, or a prohibition on certain types of trading activity.
Liquidity Risk Lower market activity risk The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an appropriate level The risk that the Group experiences a sustained period of low of cash, other forms of marketable securities and facilities to market activity leading to reduced revenues.
This could arise as a enable it to finance its ongoing operations on cost effective terms.
result of adverse macro-economic conditions, reduced levels of Cash and cash equivalent balances are held with the primary general banking activity, market uncertainty or lack of volatility.
objective of capital security and availability, with a secondary objective of generating returns.
Funding requirements are Commercial risk monitored by the GTRC.
The risk of a fundamental change to the commercial environment, whether due to client requirements or competitor activity.
The As a normal part of its operations, the Group faces Liquidity Risk Group seeks to manage and mitigate its commercial risk by through the risk of being required to fund transactions that fail following a clearly defined business development strategy, to settle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most geographic and product diversification and strong client problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, where relationship management.
the business has received a security from the selling counterparty and has paid cash in settlement of the same but is unable to Commercial risk also includes the risk that the Group is unable to effect onward delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
respond to market demand for electronic broking solutions and Such settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, namely loses market share as a result.
The Group seeks to address this risk the cost of funding the security which we have failed to deliver through continued development and enhancement of its electronic until such time as the delivery leg is finally settled and we have broking capability, to ensure that it can offer a competitive solution received the associated cash.
for all major asset classes.
The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging overdraft Governance Risk facilities to cover any failed to deliver trades, either with the Governance Risk is the risk of loss or damage to the business arising relevant settlement agent depository or with a clearing bank.
as a result of a failure of management structures or processes.
Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value This includes failure to adhere to applicable corporate governance requirements such as those recommended by the UK Corporate of any failed to deliver trades until delivery of the security is Governance Code, a failure to ensure adequate succession to key effected.
Certain facility providers require collateral such as a cash management positions, or the inappropriate use of authority and deposit or parent company guarantee to protect them from any influence by current or former senior members of staff.
adverse mark-to-market movement, and some also charge a funding fee for providing the facility.
