44 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties pRinCipaL RiSkS and UnCeRtaintieS aSSeSSing and Managing RiSk iS a fUndaMentaL paRt Of day tO day BUSineSS ManageMent aCROSS CEntriCA.
Nick Luff Group Finance Director the risks we face in a rapidly changing energy landscape continue to evolve over time.
A number of measures helped to mitigate those factors in 2012.
2012 key risks Our principal risks and uncertainties during 2012 are summarised below, together with a brief summary on how these have moved or been managed throughout the year.
Health, safety and environment Safety is one of our core priorities and we continue to target risk and impact reduction.
In 2012 we reduced the lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR and achieved significant safety milestones at a number of operations.
For example, Centrica Storage had no lost time incidents recorded for more than five million man hours of work.
Brand and reputation The Group continued to change and improve the offering to customers and provide more transparent billing, and continued to roll out an Energy Regulation Compliance Programme.
Legislation and regulation Our contact programme with key stakeholders helps us respond to new initiatives and external market changes.
As part of the Retail Market Review RMR, we are engaging with Ofgem over their proposals, and we are also engaging with the Department of Energy & Climate Change DECC with reference to Electricity Market Reform EMR.
Strategic growth The Group continued to pursue a range of options across the gas value chain and undertook significant investment through upstream and NorthAmerican acquisitions, including assets in the North Sea of 1.2 billion to secure an affordable energy supply.
Commodity prices We continued to seek long-term supply arrangements and develop our asset portfolio.
Increased wholesale and other costs forced us to raise gas and electricity prices in November.
However, we worked to make tariffs easier to understand.
Competition Affordability is a key issue for customers.
We invested significantly in systems to ensure our customer service levels continue to improve and remain competitive.
British Gas extended eligibility under the Warm Home Discount and developed offers with affinity partners, such as Sainsburys Energy.
Organisational change We successfully moved our North American headquarters from Toronto to Houston.
We made plans to recruit 1,000 British Gas energy apprentices in connection with the significant investment in smart energy.
In respect of the upstream business we will create significant numbers of jobs in construction and across the supply chain for the Cygnus project, to develop the largest gas discovery in the Southern North Sea for 25 years.
Supply chain We reviewed and refined governance processes and many suppliers signed our responsible procurement clauses.
Furthermore, we linked supplier audit activity to low cost country sourcing.
Information security, intellectual property and assets We operate in a complex computing environment and the threat of cyber attack against our industry remains high.
We invested in the transition of our data centres and improved our system of internal controls.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties 2013 presents our organisation with more challenges.
Strong governance and a clear risk strategy equip us for uncertainties ahead.
2013 principal risks and uncertainties The following risks could impact our future performance.
The list is not exhaustive and items are not prioritised.
The list, and the nature of the risks, may change during the year.
Health, safety, security and environment HSSE What are the risks?
Actual incidents, precautionary plant closures or suspension We face four principal categories of HSSE risks associated of activities on HSSE grounds could lead to loss of production with our operations: or service and impact profits.
Our operations have many inherent hazards, particularly related to exploration and an incident resulting in one or more fatalities or multiple production, power generation and offshore activities.
injuries at an owned, operated or other facility where the organisation has an interest: We also have non-controlled interests in organisations with inherently high hazards, relating to the exploration and an incident which results in significant environmental production of oil and gas and nuclear power generation.
damage or compliance breach: an incident which results in a fatality or major injury to members of the public: and a security event, requiring activation of our crisis management plan and or business continuity plan.
Such risks may result in widespread distress and harm, significant disruption to operations and damage to our reputation.
The cost related to the recovery, clean up and or resultant litigation could have a material financial impact.
How do we manage these risks?
In 2012, business unit Health, Safety & Environment HS&E plans The Board and Executive Committee oversee HSSE risk and were put into place alongside the Group audit programme.
consider it one of our core priorities.
We provide regular training These risks are tracked by control effectiveness assessments to all our employees and colleagues, including those in our and performance metrics.
We reviewed our HS&E audit operating customer-facing businesses and those working to ensure the model to ensure the 2013 risk-based audit programme accurately safe operation of our assets.
assesses compliance and provides assurance to the Board and Audit Committee.
Security intelligence and operating We remain committed to understanding, managing and procedures, as well as crisis management and business reducing the environmental and ecological impacts of our continuity plans, are regularly reviewed.
activities through innovation, technology and cultural change.
46 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties pRinCipaL RiSkS and UnCeRtaintieS COntinUed Brand and reputation What are the risks?
Social media now allows consumers and pressure groups to As highlighted in the Corporate Responsibility Review, our mount damaging direct action and other campaigns more ambition is to be the most trusted energy company.
Failure to readily than before.
follow our global business principles of operating professionally, Failure to restore public confidence could impact Group fairly and with integrity could harm our reputation, as could real revenues.
Public exposure to criticism could damage our brand, or perceived customer service failings.
Rising prices, increased increase governmental or regulatory intervention and reduce political pressures and deep recessionary impacts have all access to financial capital.
increased the level of media coverage.
We need to ensure that we clearly communicate our future strategy to key stakeholders, in order to avoid an adverse reaction and loss of confidence in the Group.
The Group, through gas and power assets, offices and call The Group supports transparency, fairness and competition centres and the 10 million visits engineers make to homes in and has taken action to make bills clearer and to work with the UK and North America every year, is very much part of local our customers to improve awareness about energy efficiency.
We act as a responsible company within these We meet regularly with the media, government, NGOs, communities and continue to help vulnerable customers.
investment community, regulators and consumer groups as In Ontario, Direct Energy launched a new customer promise part of our relationship management strategy.
Although some with a commitment to see all customers without heat the very sections of our key stakeholders hold an anti energy position, same day.
This was based on the success of a similar service our Honest Conversation and Customer Board initiatives are developed in the UK.
Direct Energy is also a key supporter of a recognised by industry critics as helping stakeholders programme to provide people going through financially difficult understand the energy market.
times with assistance in paying their household bills.
Legislation and regulation What are the risks?
significant risk to our downstream business and reduce Energy markets in the UK, North America and mainland Europe innovation and affordable choice for customers.
Legal or regulatory changes could impact In North America, the legal and regulatory framework is our ability to achieve financial goals.
primarily set at a provincial or state level, making generalisations New financial regulation was introduced in the US and Europe difficult and our entry into new markets needs to be assessed as a result of the global financial crisis.
As part of this we are on a case by case basis.
still awaiting finalisation of the rules and regulations in Europe Public statements made by governing political bodies can and in the US, under the Dodd-Frank Act.
One of the challenges would be the abolition of adversely affect the manner in which we currently deal in the existing or future green subsidies, as occurred in the UK solar commodity markets.
Governments and regulators, often under industry and in other energy sources around the world, such as public pressure, have also stepped up levels of enforcement the end of free carbon allowances in 2012 which will impact our and intervention.
Retail sector competitiveness continues to face regulatory Such developments may have a material adverse effect on scrutiny, as the costs of higher wholesale commodity prices are our business, operations, financial condition and ability to passed on to customers, just as disposable incomes are falling meet long-term growth aspirations, especially if any case and deepening recessionary impacts continue to be felt.
In the of compliance failure receives extensive media coverage.
UK, Ofgems updated RMR proposals could introduce How do we manage these risks?
In 2012, we formed a Corporate Reputation Group to We proactively engage stakeholders, including governments discuss threats from legislative and regulatory proposals.
and regulators in the UK and North America, to help shape We also continued to roll out our Energy Regulation these proposals and manage the risks they present.
Centrica Policy Group met regularly during 2012, setting Group-wide positions on each issue.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Strategic growth What are the risks?
Decisions on the future of energy markets also pose risks Strategic issues, including capital investment in mergers, to our existing and future operations.
The UK Governments acquisitions, disposals, market position, climate change, preference for converting coal power stations to co-firing sustainable development and new technologies, are affected by biomass rather than building dedicated biomass facilities led the global economy.
As we implement our refreshed strategic us to end our investment in dedicated biomass power station priorities to deliver our vision to be the leading integrated energy projects.
The US Presidents re-election indicated continued company with customers at our core, we face an increasingly support for all domestic energy sources shale, power uncertain environment.
Challenges include the intensifying generation including nuclear, renewable, carbon capture uncertainty in the world economy reflected by concerns over and storage although specific details remain uncertain.
further economic deterioration, pressure from higher wholesale The rise of the digital economy is adding to competitive prices, increased competition, reduced demand and pressures and with the internet entering a second phase recessionary impacts, all of which contribute to making market dominated by mobile devices, the barriers to market entry conditions challenging.
are falling and customer loyalties can change swiftly.
In the The economic condition of the countries and markets in which UK market, a significant number of our customers have the Group operates, namely the UK and North America, are of changed in line with this, as they now choose to deal with us concern, with the extent and timing of recovery uncertain.
The through accessing digital channels, such as the British Gas UK entered a double-dip recession during 2012, with the threat website and smartphone applications.
Smart meters represent of an unprecedented triple-dip in 2013.
The US experienced the one of the biggest changes in the retail energy market since potential for a fiscal cliff and the proximity of further fiscal the 1970s and British Gas will operate not only in an energy cliffs in 2013 exists with the possibility, from the interconnected market but in an energy services and advisory market global financial systems, of this not only impacting our overseas open to non-traditional players.
operations but also the Group as a whole.
In North America, the Group continues to deliver on its The Group pursues a range of strategic investment options priorities.
The residential, business and services footprint has across the gas value chain and in different geographies, to both grown, helping the upstream business perform well despite deepen our customer relationships and secure the Groups low gas and power prices.
We aspire to lead in the roll-out of smart meters to give In 2012, we invested 2.7 billion to secure energy supplies and consumers insight into how smart products will transform the increase energy reserves.
In addition, our investment in the way they understand their energy use.
We are market leader Cygnus project, when complete and at peak production, will in the supply for electric vehicle charge points and the Group meet the energy needs of nearly 1.5 million UK homes.
We continues to offer expertise in energy efficiency through continue to seek industry partnerships to supply the UK with domestic energy efficiency surveys and home insulation.
gas and three such supply deals have been signed since 2011.
Furthermore, the Group is mindful of the need to keep abreast of emerging technologies and the potential impact on the smart connected home of the future and as such we maintain links with technology experts to give us further advantage.
48 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties pRinCipaL RiSkS and UnCeRtaintieS COntinUed Commodity costs What are the risks?
forecasts of longer-term commodity price development.
These Volatile commodity costs affect our ability to price competitively reflect prevailing market prices and are supplemented by and meet profit targets.
The Group buys a significant proportion assessments of underlying industry fundamentals.
of the gas to supply Britains needs.
This position sets the Assets, including goodwill, may be impaired if discounted future Group apart from the other counterparts in the UK market.
To cash flows from an asset are insufficient to cover its cost on the maintain supply and protect against possible price increases balance sheet.
The excess asset cost on the Group balance much of this is procured in advance in order to ensure a sheet will be provided against and charged to the Group balanced supply and demand portfolio.
Mild weather could income statement.
The cash flows of assets are sensitive to reduce demand, leaving the Group with a surplus of gas which changes in: would have to be sold back to the wholesale market at a loss.
This could contribute to customer bills not dropping when commodity prices: wholesale prices later fall.
discount rates: There has been a significant impact from shale gas in North reserve estimates useful economic life: America where an immediate effect has been to lower wholesale gas prices in the US and weaken the traditional links capital expenditure operating expenditure assumptions between gas and oil prices.
Such an emerging energy source including changes in decommissioning estimates : and could influence global energy markets over time, with the operational performance.
surplus of gas affecting the current liquefied natural gas LNG sector in particular.
There are also a number of contractual capacity contracts, the economic value of which depends on volatile spread Investment decisions key to Group strategic growth plans, relationships.
particularly in respect of upstream assets such as gas fields or power stations, are based on evaluations underpinned by How do we manage these risks?
approved financial criteria over the life of the project.
The gas The Group has an active hedging programme and tracks supply relationships with Statoil, Qatargas and Gazprom, the supplier risks through robust governance frameworks.
Strategic acquisition of additional assets and the securing of new licences investment decisions are made within a capital allocation for exploration blocks are examples of how we continue to framework designed to ensure that proposals are rigorously develop our portfolio.
evaluated prior to acquisition and that they meet BoardChange management What are the risks?
Internal IT change programmes are equally large and complex.
The level of change experienced by our business is significant, Work on existing systems carries the risks of: deriving from: trying to deliver too much change and over-stretching capital projects: resources: IT change programmes: and change being completed but systems integrity being undermined and threatening business continuity: and organisational change.
cost overruns and or expected benefits not being realised.
We assess large capital projects as a means of growth.
Such large-scale initiatives carry complexity and could result in the Organisational change stems from internal restructuring as Group entering new markets, whilst exposing us to the risk of we drive to make our business as efficient and effective as build quality issues, cost and timetable overruns, unsuccessful possible, without detriment to our levels of customer service.
development of partnership opportunities and health, safety, Our recent announcements mean that the Group will face a security and environmental failures.
period of increased change activity in 2013.
Change activity is managed through a combination of project Change is a constant in any successful organisation.
The Group programme boards and regular review at both a business unit continues to change and adapt to remain competitive and and executive level.
In 2012, we created a project management provide the best service at the lowest cost.
We address difficult directorate to improve governance of large capital projects in decisions and challenging situations head on in order to provide our upstream business.
energy to Britains homes and businesses.
We also assess carefully the overall cumulative impact of the level of change across the organisation at any one time.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Information security What are the risks?
lack of availability of systems due to inadequate infrastructure Effective and secure information systems are essential for and data-recovery processes: and efficient management and accurate billing of customers, an external online attack that renders the Group unable to upstream operations and energy trading and hedging activities.
conduct normal business activities and or results in the loss The confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information or exposure of personal data, intellectual property or other systems could be affected by: confidential information or the disruption of control systems.
accidental or deliberate exposure of share-price sensitive The threat of cyber attacks against our industry continues to information, customer or employee and contractor escalate to similar levels experienced by government agencies personal data: and financial institutions.
There could be multiple sources of viral effect of employees, crusader consumers or hacktivist motivation for these attacks.
These risks, however, which could groups using social media channels that expose the Group to arise from inadequate or inconsistent implementation of IT legal liabilities, damage our reputation or disclose confidential security controls, could seriously affect the Groups reputation, information: lead to legal action and or outages that could cause financial and operational loss.
The US and EU data privacy proposals accidental or deliberate changes to financial and other data increase the implications of such risks materialising, due to the Group relies on: proposals around public notification of any data breach and the scale of associated fines for non-compliance.
Business continuity plans are in place to manage significant Controls include network segregation, monitoring, storage outages or interruptions.
To improve efficiency, the Group system access restrictions, regular third party security reviews continues to invest in systems, supported by strong project and vulnerability assessments of infrastructure and applications.
management, to minimise the associated implementation risk.
Our Group Information Systems IS risk team monitors and In 2012, the Group continued to implement IS programmes, reviews adherence to the IS risk policy and works with the UK with specific efforts in North America to consolidate the Government to exchange information and threat intelligence systems of new acquisitions.
between government agencies and the energy sector.
50 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties pRinCipaL RiSkS and UnCeRtaintieS COntinUed People What are the risks?
As part of this, the Group also needs to maintain good relations Key to our ability to successfully deliver business plans and with trade unions, primarily the Centrica Energy upstream strategic growth is the attraction, retention and succession business operational workforce and British Gas engineers.
planning of senior management and individuals with key skills.
There is a risk that industrial relations with the GMB and or This applies to customer service, the delivery of new systems UNISON fail or become ineffective as a result of a breakdown and in particular to areas where there is strong competition for in negotiations over employment terms or as a response to technical and project management capability, such as our widespread union unrest in the UK.
Failure to maintain a high calibre, engaged and stable workforce As we continue to change, the business must be organised in could compromise achievement of the Groups strategy and the most effective and efficient way possible to ensure its cost could have a material adverse effect on its business, results base is as low as possible, so that we can offer customers of operations and overall financial condition.
This includes both cultural and behavioural change as well as ambitious technical-change programmes.
In 2012, reward reviews were carried out in specific areas to We regularly review our organisation to make sure that people retain key skills and prevent the possibility of an escalation are empowered to make the right decisions at the right time inattrition.
and to look for ways to work better, smarter and safer.
The Group invests in developing all employees, including We regularly review the capability of the organisation to deliver technical, behavioural and leadership skills.
The Group engages our strategic objectives.
An extensive exercise has been with unions on restructuring and issues that could impact terms undertaken in critical areas to ensure we have the right and conditions and provides channels for employees to discuss capabilities to deliver our plans for growth and innovation.
Human Resources is involved in merger and acquisition activity to ensure that, following integrations, we retain key attributes and recruit the right talent, especially in an emerging market.
fURtheR infORMatiOn Risk management processes on pages 58 to 60.
Financial risk management on pages 111 to 114.
HS&E reporting and activities on page 42.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Report Appendix Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Governance Contents 51 Directors Report Governance 61 Remuneration Report 52 Corporate Governance Report 61 Letter to Shareholders 52 The Board 62 Remuneration Summary 54 Board Performance 64 Remuneration Policy 54 Board Committees 64 Total Remuneration Package 55 Audit Committee 66 Executive Directors Remuneration 56 Nominations Committee 67 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration 56 Remuneration Committee 68 Remuneration Statement 57 Corporate Responsibility Committee 68 Remuneration Committee 57 Executive Committee 68 Executive Directors Remuneration 57 Disclosure Committee 69 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration 58 Relations with Shareholders 69 Statutory Disclosures 58 Risk Management and Internal Control 70 Remuneration Tables 60 Going Concern 75 Changes since 1 January 2013 60 Directors Responsibility Statement 76 Independent Auditors Report Group 60 Disclosure of Information to Auditors Board of Directors and Senior Executives biographies can 60 Independent Auditors be found on pages 152 and 153 and Other Statutory Information can be found on page 154 within the Appendix to the DirectorsReport.
