Performance | Risk Risk In this section we describe our key risk Embedded in business processes that SET function to review at QBRs.
management and assurance mechanisms We strive to ensure that sound risk The key risks for each SET function are and the principal risks and uncertainties management is embedded within then aggregated into a Group risk register.
which we consider to be material to our our strategy, planning, budgeting and The purpose of the risk review is to identify business as they may have a significant performance management processes.
and measure risks, and to define and review effect on our financial condition, results The Board has dened the Groups risk management and mitigation plans.
of operations and or reputation.
Specic risk appetite expressing the acceptable Supporting tools are in place to assist the managers in this process and we continue risks and uncertainties are also discussed levels of risk for the Group using three key to work on developing our risk management in the Business Review from page 30, dimensions.
These are i earnings and standards and guidelines.
cash ow ii return on investment and iii potential impact on our reputation.
This Managing risk We develop business resilience plans to denition provides a clear statement by As an innovation-driven, global, prescriptionprovide for situations where specic risks the Board of its position on risk which based biopharmaceutical business, we face have the potential to severely impact our enables the Group, in both quantitative a diverse range of risks and uncertainties business.
Global business resilience plans and qualitative terms, to judge the level that may adversely affect our business.
Our covering crisis management, business of risk it is prepared to take so as approach to risk management is designed continuity and emergency responses are to achieve its overall objectives.
to encourage clear decision making as to in place.
These plans are supported by the which risks we take and how these are Annually, the Group develops a long-term provision of training and crisis simulation managed, based on an understanding of business plan to support the delivery of its activities for business managers.
the potential strategic, commercial, financial, strategy, which the Board reviews to ensure Key responsibilities compliance, legal and reputational that it conforms to its risk appetite.
Line Management of risk implications of these risks.
managers are accountable for identifying Day-to-day risk management is delegated and managing risks, and for delivering We work continuously to ensure that we from the Board to the CEO and through the business objectives in accordance with have effective risk management processes SET to line managers.
SET functions are the Groups risk appetite.
Each area for in place to support the delivery of our accountable for establishing an appropriate which a SET member is responsible strategic objectives, the material needs line management-led process and for a SET function is required to provide a of our stakeholders and our core values.
providing the resources for supporting comprehensive assessment of its risks We monitor our business activities and effective risk management.
as part of the annual business planning external and internal environments for Line and project managers have primary process.
Identied risks are mapped to new, emerging and changing risks to ensure responsibility, within the context of AstraZenecas risk taxonomy, providing that these are managed appropriately their functional area, for identifying and a structured disaggregation of the various as they arise.
managing risk as well as for putting in place potential risks facing the Group.
The Board believes that the processes appropriate controls and procedures The CEO and the CFO undertake quarterly and accountabilities which are in place to monitor effectiveness.
business reviews QBRs with each SET described below provide it with function, where the key risks are reviewed.
adequate information on the key risks Business managers within each SET and uncertainties we face.
Further function are required to provide quarterly information about these risks and updates on their key risks, which are then uncertainties is set out in the Principal consolidated to create a list of key risks for risks and uncertainties section from page 75.
74 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Oversight and monitoring GIA: independent assurance reports Principal risks and uncertainties The SET is responsible for overseeing on the Groups risk management and The pharmaceutical sector is inherently and monitoring the effectiveness of the control framework risky and a variety of risks and uncertainties risk management processes implemented Global Compliance: compliance may affect our business.
In the remainder by management.
The Compliance and programme reports on key compliance of this section we describe the principal risks and uncertainties which we consider Finance functions, together with the GIA, risks, updates on key compliance to be material to our business in that support the SET by advising on policy and initiatives, reports on performance against they may have a significant effect on our standard setting, monitoring and auditing, the Global Compliance scorecard, financial condition, results of operations communication and training, as well and summaries of compliance incidents and or reputation.
as reporting on the adequacy of line and investigations including contact management processes as they apply made by employees with AZethics These risks are not listed in any particular to managing our risk.
Our compliance via our helplines order of priority.
Other risks, unknown organisation is comprised of the Global Financial Control and Compliance Group: or not currently considered material, Compliance function together with a wide reports on Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a similar effect.
We believe compliance and the financial control range of specialist compliance functions.
that the forward-looking statements framework Further information about Global Compliance about AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, Management: the Group-level risk and the Code of Conduct can be found in identied by words such as anticipates, summary from the annual business the Compliance section on page 47. believes, expects and intends, are planning process and QBRs and reports Management reporting and assurance based on reasonable assumptions.
on the performance management and We provide quarterly risk reports to the However, forward-looking statements monitoring processes.
Among other things, involve inherent risks and uncertainties these summarise our current assessment For further information on the Audit such as those summarised below.
They of the principal risks facing the Group, Committee, see the Audit Committee relate to events that may occur in the including environmental, social and section from page 115. future, that may be inuenced by factors governance risks, senior management beyond our control and that may have GIA is an independent assurance and accountability and our expected plans actual outcomes materially different from advisory function that reports to, and in order to address these risks, to the our expectations.
is accountable to, the Audit Committee.
GIAs budget, resources and programme The Audit Committee comprises five of audits are approved by the Audit Non-Executive Directors.
It reviews Committee annually and the findings and reports to the Board following each from its audit work are reported to, and Audit Committee meeting on the overall discussed at, each Audit Committee framework of risk management and internal meeting.
A core part of the audit work controls, and is responsible for promptly carried out by GIA includes assessing bringing to the Boards attention any how we are managing risk and reviewing significant concerns about the conduct, the effectiveness of selected aspects results or outcomes of internal audits of our risk control framework, including and other compliance matters.
The Audit the effectiveness of other assurance and Committee receives regular reports from compliance functions within the business.
our external auditor and the following business functions: AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 75 Performance | Risk Product pipeline risks Failure to meet development targets Impact The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a complex, risky A succession of negative drug project results and a failure and lengthy process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources, to reduce development timelines effectively, or produce new which may fail at any stage of the process due to a number of factors.
These products that achieve commercial success, could adversely include: failure to obtain the required regulatory or marketing approvals for the affect the reputation of our R&D capabilities, and is likely to product candidate or its manufacturing facilities, unfavourable clinical efcacy materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
data, safety concerns, failure of R&D to develop new product candidates, failure to demonstrate adequate cost-effective benets to regulators and the emergence of competing products.
Production and release schedules for biologics may be more signicantly impacted by regulatory processes than other products.
This is due to more complex and stringent regulation on the manufacturing of biologics and their supply chain.
difficulties of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new products Impact We are subject to strict controls on the commercialisation processes for our The predictability of the outcome and timing of review processes pharmaceutical products, including their development, manufacture, distribution remains challenging, particularly in the US, due to competing and marketing.
The requirements to obtain regulatory approval based on a regulatory priorities and a continuing sentiment of risk aversion products safety, efcacy and quality before it can be marketed for an indication on the part of regulatory reviewers and management.
in a particular country, as well as to maintain and comply with licences and other Delays in regulatory reviews and approvals could impact the regulations relating to its manufacture and marketing, are particularly important.
timing of a new product launch.
In addition, the drive for public The submission of an application to regulatory authorities which vary, with transparency of the review processes through the more extensive different requirements, in each region or country may or may not lead to the use of public advisory committees, increase the unpredictability grant of marketing approval.
Regulators can refuse to grant approval or may of the process.
require additional data before approval is given, even though the medicine may already be launched in other countries.
The approval of a product is required by the relevant regulatory authority in each country, although a single pan-EU MAA can be obtained through a centralised procedure.
In recent years, companies sponsoring NDAs and regulatory authorities have been under increased public pressure to apply more conservative benefit risk criteria.
In some instances, regulatory authorities require a company to develop plans to ensure safe use of a marketed product before a pharmaceutical product is approved, or after approval, if a new and significant safety issue is established.
In addition, third party interpretation of publicly available data on our marketed products has the potential to inuence the approval status or labelling of a currently approved and marketed product.
Failure to obtain and enforce effective IP protection Impact Our ability to obtain and enforce patents and other IP rights in relation to our Limitations on the availability of patent protection or the use products is an important element of our ability to protect our investment in of compulsory licensing in certain countries in which we operate R&D and create long-term value for the business.
A number of the countries could have a material adverse effect on the pricing and sales in which we operate are still developing their IP laws or may even be limiting of our products and, consequently, could materially adversely the applicability of these laws to pharmaceutical inventions.
Adverse political affect our revenues from those products.
More information perspectives on the desirability of strong IP protection for pharmaceuticals in about protecting our IP is contained in the Intellectual Property certain emerging and even developed markets may limit the scope for us to section on page 35.
Information about the risk of patent litigation obtain effective IP protection for our products.
As a result, certain countries and the early loss of IP rights is contained in the Expiry or loss may seek to limit or deny effective IP protection for pharmaceuticals.
of, or limitations on, IP rights risk on page 78.
Delay to new product launches Impact Our continued success depends on the development and successful launch significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products of innovative new drugs.
The anticipated launch dates of major new products could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition have a significant impact on a number of areas of our business, including and results of operations.
For example, for the launch of products investment in large clinical studies, the manufacture of pre-launch product that are seasonal in nature, delays in regulatory approvals or stocks, investment in marketing materials pre-launch, sales force training manufacturing difficulties may delay launch to the next season and the timing of anticipated future revenue streams from new product sales.
which, in turn, may signicantly reduce the return on costs These launch dates are primarily driven by the development programmes that incurred in preparing for the launch for that season.
In addition, we run and the demands of the regulatory authorities in the approvals process, a delay in the launch may lead to increased costs if, for example, as well as pricing negotiations.
Delays to anticipated launch dates can result marketing and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or protracted from a number of factors including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical for longer than expected.
studies, regulatory demands, price negotiation, competitor activity and technology transfer.
76 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic alliances and acquisitions may be unsuccessful Impact We seek technology licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations If we fail to complete these types of collaborative projects in to expand our product portfolio and geographical presence as part of our a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, this may business strategy.
limit our ability to access a greater portfolio of products, IP technology and shared expertise.
Such licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations are key, enabling us to grow and strengthen the business.
The success of such arrangements is Additionally, disputes or difficulties in our relationship with largely dependent on the technology and other IP we acquire rights to, and the our collaborators or partners may arise, often due to conicting resources, efforts and skills of our partners.
Also, under many of our strategic priorities or conicts of interest between parties, which may alliances, we make milestone payments well in advance of the commercialisation erode or eliminate the benets of these alliances.
of the products, with no assurance that we will recoup these payments.
The incurrence of significant debt or liabilities as a result of Furthermore, we experience strong competition from other pharmaceutical integration of an acquired business could cause deterioration companies in respect of licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations, and in our credit rating and result in increased borrowing costs and therefore we may be unsuccessful in establishing some of our intended projects.
We may also seek to acquire complementary businesses as part of our Further, if, following an acquisition, liabilities are uncovered in business strategy.
The integration of an acquired business could involve the acquired business, the Group may suffer losses and may not incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as well as having have remedies against the seller or third parties.
The integration a negative effect on our reported results of operations from acquisition related process may also result in business disruption, diversion of charges, amortisation of expenses related to intangibles and charges for the management resources, the loss of key employees and other implementation of long-term assets.
We may also experience difficulties in issues, such as a failure to integrate IT and other systems.
integrating geographically separated organisations, systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational cultures.
Commercialisation and business execution risks Challenges to achieving commercial success of new products Impact The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves substantial If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate investment in sales and marketing activities, launch stocks and other items.
of sales growth is slower than anticipated, there is a risk that we are unable to fully recoup the costs incurred in launching The commercial success of our new medicines is of particular importance to us in order to replace lost sales following patent expiry.
We may ultimately be it, which could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
unable to achieve commercial success for any number of reasons.
These include difficulties in manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate Due to the complexity of the commercialisation process for for development or commercialisation in a timely manner, the impact of price biologics, the methods of distributing and marketing biologics control measures imposed by governments and healthcare authorities, erosion could materially adversely impact our revenues from the sales of IP rights, including infringement by third parties and failure to show a of products such as Synagis and FluMist Fluenz.
As a result, we cannot be certain that compounds currently under development will achieve success, and our ability to accurately assess, prior to launch, the eventual efcacy or safety of a new product once in broader clinical use can only be based on data available at that time, which is inherently limited due to relatively short periods of product testing and relatively small clinical study patient samples.
The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for small molecule pharmaceutical products, primarily due to differences in the mode of administration, technical aspects of the product and rapidly changing distribution and reimbursement environments.
Illegal trade in our products Impact Illegal trade covers the theft, illegal diversion and counterfeiting of our products.
Public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical Illegal trade in pharmaceutical products is estimated to exceed $75 billion products as a result of counterfeiting could materially adversely per year and is generally considered by the industry, non-governmental affect our reputation and financial performance.
In addition, undue organisations and governmental authorities to be increasing.
We suffer a or misplaced concern about the issue may induce some patients commensurate financial exposure to illegal trade and there is also a risk to public to stop taking their medicines, with consequential risks to their health.
Regulators and the public expect us to secure the integrity of our supply health.
There is also a direct financial loss where counterfeit chain and to co-operate actively in the reduction of illegal trade in AstraZeneca medicines replace sales of genuine products and where genuine products, through surveillance, investigation and legal action against others products are recalled following discovery of counterfeit, stolen engaged in illegal trade.
and or illegally traded products in an effort to regain control of the integrity of the supply chain.
Developing our business in Emerging Markets Impact The development of our business in Emerging Markets is a critical factor The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in in determining our future ability to sustain or increase our global product Emerging Markets may materially adversely affect our reputation, revenues.
This poses various challenges including: more volatile economic business or results of operations.
conditions: competition from companies with existing market presence: the need to identify correctly and to leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and marketing: poor IP protection: inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud : the need to impose developed market compliance standards: inadvertent breaches of local and international law: not being able to recruit appropriately skilled and experienced personnel: identication of the most effective sales channels and route to market: and interventions by national governments or regulators restricting access to market and or introducing adverse price controls.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 77 Performance | Risk Expiry or loss of, or limitations on, IP rights Impact Pharmaceutical products are only protected from being copied during the Products under patent protection or within the period of limited period of protection under patent rights and or related IP rights such Regulatory Data Protection typically generate signicantly as Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status.
Expiry or loss of these higher revenues than those not protected by such rights.
rights typically leads to the immediate launch of generic copies of the product Our revenues, financial condition and results of operations in the country where the rights have expired or been lost.
See the Intellectual may be materially adversely affected upon expiry or early Property section on page 35 which contains a table of certain patent expiry loss of our IP rights, due to generic entrants into the market dates for our key marketed products.
Additionally, the loss of patent rights covering major products of other pharmaceutical companies, Additionally, the expiry or loss of patents covering other innovator companies such as Plavix in May, may adversely affect the growth of our products may also lead to increased competition for our own, still-patented, still-patented products in the same product class eg Brilinta products in the same product class due to the availability of generic products Brilique in that market.
Further, there may be increased pricing pressure on our still-patented products as a result of the lower prices of generic entrants.
Pressures resulting from generic competition Impact Our products compete not only with other products approved for the same If challenges to our patents by generic drug manufacturers condition, marketed by research-based pharmaceutical companies, but also succeed and generic products are launched, or generic products with generic drugs marketed by generic pharmaceutical manufacturers.
are launched at risk on the expectation that challenges to our These competitors may invest more of their resources into the marketing of IP will be successful, this may materially adversely affect our their products than we do depending on the relative priority of these competitor financial condition and results of operations.
In 2012, US sales products within their companys portfolio.
Generic versions of products are often for Seroquel XR, Nexium and Crestor were $811 million, $2,272 sold at lower prices than branded products as the manufacturer does not have million and $3,164 million respectively.
Furthermore, if limitations to recoup the significant cost of R&D investment and market development.
The on the availability, scope or enforceability of patent protection majority of our patented products, including Nexium, Crestor and Seroquel XR, are implemented in jurisdictions in which we operate, generic are subject to price pressures as a result of competition from generic copies of manufacturers in these countries may be increasingly able to these products and from generic forms of other drugs in the same product class introduce competing products to the market earlier than they for example, generic forms of Lipitor and Plavix and generic forms of Seroquel IR.
would have been able to, had more robust patent or Regulatory Data Protection been available.
As well as facing generic competition upon expiry or loss of IP rights, we also face the risk that generic drug manufacturers seek to market generic versions of our products prior to expiries of our patents and or the Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are currently facing challenges in the US from numerous generic drug manufacturers regarding our patents for Seroquel XR, Nexium, Crestor and Pulmicort, four of our key products.
Generic manufacturers may also take advantage of the failure of certain countries to properly enforce Regulatory Data Protection and may launch generics during this protected period.
This is a particular risk in some Emerging Markets where appropriate patent protection may be difficult to obtain or enforce.
Effects of patent litigation in respect of IP rights Impact Any of the IP rights protecting our products may be asserted or challenged If we are not successful in maintaining exclusive rights to market in IP litigation initiated against or by external parties.
Such IP rights may also be one or more of our major products, particularly in the US where the subject of validity challenges in patent ofces.
We expect our most valuable we achieve our highest revenue, our revenue and margins products to receive the greater number of challenges.
Despite our efforts to could be materially adversely affected.
establish and defend robust patent protection for our products, we may not Managing or litigating infringement disputes over so-called succeed in protecting our patents from such litigation or other challenges.
freedom to operate can be costly.
We may be subject to Where we assert our IP rights and allege infringement, we bear the risk that injunctions against our products or processes and be liable courts may decide that third parties do not infringe our IP rights.
This may result for damages or royalties.
We may need to obtain costly licences.
in AstraZeneca losing exclusivity and or erosion of revenues.
Non-infringement These risks may be greater in relation to biologics and vaccines, defences are typically led by third parties in response to patent infringement where patent infringement claims may relate to discovery or lawsuits including in so-called 505 b 2 cases in the US.
Details of 505 b 2 research tools, and manufacturing methods and or biological actions can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 184. materials.
While we seek to manage such risks by, for example, acquiring licences, foregoing certain activities or uses, or We also bear the risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or modifying processes to avoid infringement claims and permit licensed exclusively by third parties, including research-based and generic commercialisation of our products, such steps can entail pharmaceutical companies and individuals.
Infringement accusations may significant cost and there is no guarantee that they will implicate, for example, our manufacturing processes, product intermediates be successful.
Details of significant infringement claims against us by third parties enforcing IP rights can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 184.
78 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Price controls and reductions Impact Most of our key markets have experienced the implementation of various cost Due to these pressures on the pricing of our products, there control or reimbursement mechanisms in respect of pharmaceutical products.
can be no certainty that we will be able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, enable For example, in the US, realised prices are being depressed through restrictive us to earn an adequate return on our product investment.
These reimbursement policies and cost-control tools such as restricted lists and pressures, including the increasingly restrictive reimbursement formularies, which employ generic first strategies and require physicians policies to which we are subject and the potential adoption of to obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where a generic new legislation expanding the scope of permitted commercial alternative exists.
These mechanisms can be used by payers to limit the use importation of medicines into the US, could materially adversely of branded products and put pressure on manufacturers to reduce net prices.
affect our business or results of operations.
Many of these mechanisms shift a greater proportion of the cost of medicines to the patient via out-of-pocket payments at the pharmacy counter.
The patient We expect that these pressures on pricing will continue, and may increase.
out-of-pocket spend is generally in the form of a co-payment or, in some cases, a co-insurance, which is designed, principally, to encourage patients to use generic medicines.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how price pressures are affecting our business in our most important markets is set out in the Pricing pressure section from page 18 and these economic pressures are also further discussed below in the following risk factor.
Economic, regulatory and political pressures Impact We face continued economic, regulatory and political pressures to limit or It is not possible to accurately estimate the financial impact of the reduce the cost of our products.
potential consequences resulting from the Affordable Care Act or related legislative changes when taken together with the number In 2010, the US passed the Affordable Care Act, a comprehensive health reform of other market-related and industry-related factors that can also package with provisions taking effect between 2010 and 2014.
The law expands result in similar impacts.
While the overall reduction in our profit insurance coverage, establishes health insurance exchanges and establishes before tax for the year due to higher minimum Medicaid rebates new national entities focused on health system reforms.
In terms of specic on prescription drugs, discounts on branded pharmaceutical provisions impacting our industry, the law mandates higher rebates and discounts sales to Medicare Part D beneciaries and an industry-wide on branded drugs for certain Medicare and Medicaid patients as well as an excise fee was $858 million, this reects only the limited number industry-wide excise fee.
Implementation of several health system delivery of known, quantiable and isolatable effects of these legislative reforms included in the law has commenced and will continue over the next developments.
Other potential indirect or associated two years.
For example, a new comparative effectiveness research organisation, consequences of these legislative developments, which continue the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute, has been established and to evolve and which cannot be estimated, could have similar an Independent Payment Advisory Board, with broad authority to propose to impacts.
These include broader changes in access to, or eligibility cut Medicare expenditures, is scheduled to commence in 2014. for, coverage under Medicare, Medicaid or similar governmental The Affordable Care Act expands the patient population eligible for Medicaid programmes, such as the recent proposals to limit Medicare and will provide new insurance coverage for individuals through state-operated benets, which could indirectly impact our pricing or sales of and federal-operated health insurance exchanges from 2014.
Large employers prescription products within the private sector.
have typically offered generous health insurance benets, but many are These continued disparities in pricing systems could lead to struggling with increasing health insurance premiums and may, therefore, opt marked price differentials between markets, which, by way to shift employee coverage into the health insurance exchanges, which will be of the implementation of existing or new reference pricing operational by 2014.
The pharmaceutical industry could be adversely impacted mechanisms, increases the pricing pressure affecting the by such shifts if the health insurance exchanges do not offer a prescription drug industry.
The importation of pharmaceutical products from benefit that is as robust as benets historically provided by large employers.
countries where prices are low due to government price controls, We anticipate further government intervention in the US in connection with or other market dynamics, to countries where prices for those the recent initiative to contain federal spending.
For more information see products are higher, is already prevalent and may increase.
the Regulatory requirements and Pricing pressure sections from page 17 In particular, as discussed in the Pricing pressure section and 18, respectively.
on page 18, Greece, Portugal and Spain have all introduced measures to lower healthcare spending, including mandatory In the EU, efforts by the European Commission to reduce inconsistencies discounts, clawbacks and price referencing rules, which could and to improve standards in the disparate national regulatory systems have met have a material adverse effect on our business or results with little immediate success.
The industry continues to be exposed in Europe of operations.
to a range of disparate pricing systems, ad hoc cost-containment measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of Health Technology Assessment HTA to provide a rigorous evaluation of the clinical efcacy of a product, at or post launch.
HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the clinical as well as cost-effectiveness of products in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policymakers attempt to drive increased efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical products.
Further information regarding these pressures is contained in the Regulatory requirements and Pricing pressure sections from page 17 and page 18, respectively.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 79 Performance | Risk Biosimilars Impact While no application for a biosimilar has been made in relation to an The extent to which biosimilars would be differentiated from AstraZeneca biologic, various regulatory authorities are implementing patented biologics on price is unclear.
However, due to their or considering abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars that would complex nature, it is uncertain whether biosimilars would have compete with patented biologics.
the same impact on patented biologics that generic products have had on patented small molecule products.
For example, in 2010, the US enacted the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act within the Affordable Care Act, which contains general directives In addition, it is uncertain when any such abbreviated approval for biosimilar applications.
The FDA issued draft guidance in February 2012 on processes may be fully realised, particularly for more complex implementing an abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway.
However, significant protein molecules such as MAbs.
Any such processes may questions remain, including standards for designation of interchangeability.
materially adversely affect the future commercial prospects In 2012, the FDA also implemented user fee programmes to support biosimilar for patented biologics, such as the ones that we produce.
product review and policy development.
In Europe, the EMA published final guidelines on similar biological medicinal products containing MAbs and in May, the first MAb biosimilar application was made.
Notably, a number of jurisdictions have adopted either the EMA guidelines or those recently set forth by the WHO to enable biosimilars to enter the market after discrete periods of data exclusivity.
Increasing implementation and enforcement of more stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation Impact There is an increasing global focus on the implementation and enforcement We devote significant resources to the considerable challenge of anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation.
of compliance with this legislation, including in emerging and developing markets, at considerable cost.
Investigations from For example, the UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force in July 2011.
This act governmental agencies require additional resources.
Despite has extensive extra-territorial application, implements significant changes taking significant measures to prevent breaches of applicable to existing UK anti-bribery legislation and broadens the scope of statutory anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws by our personnel, breaches offences and the potential applicable penalties, including, organisational liability may result in the imposition of significant penalties, such for any bribe paid by persons or entities associated with an organisation where as fines, the requirement to comply with monitoring or selfthe organisation failed to have adequate preventative procedures in place reporting obligations, or debarment or exclusion from government at the time of the offence.
There is also an increase in the maximum applicable sales or reimbursement programmes, any of which could penalties for bribery, including up to 10 years imprisonment and unlimited fines.
materially adversely affect our reputation, business or results There have also been increased enforcement efforts in the UK by the Serious of operations.
Fraud Ofce and, in the US, there has been significant enforcement activity in respect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the SEC and US Department of Justice against US companies and non-US companies listed in the US.
We are the subject of current anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject to informal inquiries and formal investigations from governmental agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental ofcials interact with us in a variety of roles that are important to our operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others.
Details of these matters are included in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 184.
Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain Impact We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and restructuring If inappropriately managed, the expected value of these programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the business.
initiatives could be lost through low employee engagement However, anticipated cost savings and other benets from these programmes and hence productivity, increased absence and attrition are based on estimates and the actual savings may vary signicantly.
In particular, levels, and industrial action.
these cost reduction measures are often based on current conditions and Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost cannot always take into account any future changes to the pharmaceutical reduction measures, either through the successful conclusion of industry or our operations, including new business developments, wage employee relations processes including consultation, engagement, or price increases.
talent management, recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
80 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Changes in senior management, failure to attract and retain key personnel and failure to successfully engage with our employees Impact The success of our business is guided by our SET and their direct reports.
In 2012, we appointed a new CEO and in January 2013, we The departure of senior leaders can introduce uncertainty in the business.
changed the composition of our SET.
Senior management transitions can introduce uncertainty and could materially We rely heavily on recruiting and retaining talented employees with a diverse adversely impact our business or results of operations.
range of skills and capabilities to meet our strategic objectives.
For example, the success of our R&D activities is particularly dependent on our ability to The inability to attract and or retain highly skilled personnel, in attract and retain sufficient numbers of high-quality researchers and development particular those in key scientific and leadership positions, may specialists.
We face intense competition for qualied individuals, as the supply weaken our succession plans for critical positions in the medium of people with specic skills and significant leadership potential or in specic term, may materially adversely affect the implementation of our geographic regions may be limited.
strategic objectives and could ultimately impact our business or results of operations.
Our ability to achieve high levels of employee engagement in the workforce, and hence benefit from strong commitment and motivation, is key to the Failure to engage effectively with our employees could lead to successful delivery of our business objectives.
business disruption in our day-to-day operations, reduce levels of productivity and or increase levels of voluntary turnover, all of which could ultimately adversely impact our business or results of operations.
While we are committed to working on improving drivers of engagement, such as increasing our employees understanding of our new management, strategy and our ongoing efforts to reduce organisational complexity, our efforts may be unsuccessful.
Failure of information technology Impact We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems support key Any significant disruption to these IT systems, including breaches business functions such as our R&D, manufacturing, supply chain and of data centre security or cybersecurity, or failure to integrate new sales capabilities, and are an important means of safeguarding and and existing IT systems, could harm our reputation and materially communicating data.
adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
While we have invested heavily in the protection of our data and IT, we may be unable to prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business.
For example, in 2012, the failure of the implementation of an IT interface in an enterprise resource planning IT system in our facility in Sweden Sdertlje caused a disruption to our supply chain resulting in an estimated negative revenue impact of 1%.
As previously disclosed, we terminated our previous outsourcing relationship for the provision of IT infrastructure services.
We continue to migrate applications and servers to equipment and facilities managed by AstraZeneca and our current providers of IT infrastructure services.
This migration activity may not be completed on time and within budget, which could adversely impact our business or results of operations.
Failure of outsourcing Impact We have outsourced a number of business critical operations to third A failure to successfully manage and implement the integration party providers.
This includes certain R&D processes, IT systems, HR, of IT infrastructure services provided by our outsourcing providers and finance and accounting services.
could create disruption, which could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Failure of outsource providers to deliver timely services, and to the required level of quality, and failure of outsource providers to co-operate with each other, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, such failures could adversely impact our ability to meet business targets, maintain a good reputation within the industry and with stakeholders, and result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 81 Performance | Risk Supply chain and delivery risks Manufacturing biologics Impact Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is complex and may Slight deviations in any part of the manufacturing process may require the use of innovative technologies to handle living micro-organisms and result in lot failure, product recalls or spoilage, for example due facilities specically designed and validated for this purpose, with sophisticated to contamination.
quality assurance and control procedures.
difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products Impact We may experience difficulties and delays in manufacturing our products, such Manufacturing distribution and sale difficulties may result in as i supply chain continuity, including as a result of disruptions such as a natural product shortages and significant delays, which may lead to or man-made disaster at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor: lost sales.
ii delays related to the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing In 2012, supply from our site in India was disrupted for a period of facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our products: time, following a voluntary recall of products that we determined iii seizure or recalls of products or shutdown of manufacturing plants: and iv did not meet our global quality standards.
other manufacturing or distribution problems including changes in manufacturing production sites, limits to manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, In 2012, the failure of the implementation of an IT interface in an enterprise resource planning IT system in our facility in Sweden changes in the types of products produced, or physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.
Sdertlje caused a disruption to our supply chain resulting in an estimated negative revenue impact of 1%.
Reliance on third parties for goods Impact We increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply of goods, such Third party supply failure could materially adversely affect our as raw materials for example, the API in some of our medicines, equipment, financial condition or results of operations.
This may lead to formulated drugs and packaging, all of which are key to our operations.
significant delays and or difficulties in obtaining goods and services on commercially acceptable terms.
Unexpected events and or events beyond our control could result in the failure of the supply of goods.
For example, suppliers of key goods we rely on may Loss of access to sufficient sources of key goods and biological cease to trade.
In addition, we may experience limited supply of biological materials may interrupt or prevent our research activities as materials, such as cells, animal products or by-products.
Furthermore, planned and or increase our costs.
Further information is government regulations in multiple jurisdictions could result in restricted contained in the Managing risk section on page 74. access to, use or transport of such materials.
Legal, regulatory and compliance risks Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations Impact We may be subject to legal proceedings and governmental investigations.
Investigations or legal proceedings, regardless of their outcome, Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently unpredictable and unexpectedly could be costly, divert management attention, or damage our high awards for damages can result from an adverse verdict.
In many cases, reputation and demand for our products.
Unfavourable resolution plaintiffs may claim compensatory, punitive and statutory damages in extremely of current and similar future proceedings against us could subject high amounts.
In particular, the marketing, promotional, clinical and pricing us to criminal liability, fines, penalties or other monetary or practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which non-monetary remedies, require us to make significant provisions manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers and patients, are subject in our accounts relating to legal proceedings and could materially to extensive regulation, litigation and governmental investigation.
Many adversely affect our business or results of operations.
companies, including AstraZeneca, have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and private payers and consumers, which have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences.
Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 184 describes the material legal proceedings in which we are currently involved.
Substantial product liability claims Impact Pharmaceutical companies have, historically, been subject to large product Substantial product liability claims that result in court decisions liability damages claims, settlements and awards for injuries allegedly caused against us or in the settlement of proceedings could materially by the use of their products.
Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations, or of other competing products may increase the risk of product liability claims.
particularly where such circumstances are not covered by insurance.
Furthermore, in the past we incurred substantial costs relating to product liability litigation involving Seroquel IR.
For more information, see the Limited third party insurance coverage risk on page 84.
82 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations Impact Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result in Failure to comply with applicable laws, including ongoing control civil and or criminal legal proceedings being led against us, or in us becoming and regulation, could materially adversely affect our business subject to regulatory sanctions.
Regulatory authorities have wide-ranging or results of operations.
For example, once a product has been administrative powers to deal with any failure to comply with continuing approved for marketing by the regulatory authorities, it is subject regulatory oversight and this could affect us, whether such failure is our to continuing control and regulation, such as the manner of its own or that of our contractors or external partners.
manufacture, distribution, marketing and safety surveillance.
In addition, any changes that are made to the manufacturing, distribution, marketing and safety surveillance processes of our products may require additional regulatory approvals, which could result in significant additional costs and or disruption to these processes.
Such changes may be imposed on us by regulatory authorities as a result of continuing inspections to which we are subject or may be made at our own discretion.
For example, if regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice or safety monitoring regulations for pharmaceutical products often referred to as pharmacovigilance arise, this could lead to loss of product approvals, product recalls and seizures, and interruption of production, which could create product shortages and delays in new product approvals.
Failure to adhere to laws, rules and regulations relating to anti-competitive behaviour Impact Where a government authority investigates our adherence Any failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations relating to anti-competitive behaviour may expose us to regulatory sanctions or lawsuits from private, to competition laws, or we become subject to private party lawsuits, this may result in inspections of our sites or requests non-governmental entities.
for documents and other information.
Competition investigations Certain of our commercial arrangements with generics companies, which have or legal proceedings could be costly, divert management sought to settle patent challenges on terms acceptable to both innovator and attention, or damage our reputation.
generics manufacturer, may be subject to challenge by competition authorities.
An example of such a challenge is the Federal Trade Commission inquiry.
Unfavourable resolution of such challenges, investigations or legal See Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 184 for more details.
proceedings against us could require us to make changes to our commercial practice and could subject us to fines and penalties and other sanctions.
These could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Environmental and occupational health and safety liabilities Impact We have environmental and or occupational health and safety-related liabilities While we carefully manage these liabilities, if a significant at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites, the most non-compliance issue, environmental, occupational health or significant of which are detailed in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from safety incident for which we are responsible were to arise, this page 183. could result in us being liable to pay compensation, fines or remediation costs.
In some circumstances, such liability could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, our financial provisions for any obligations that we may have relating to environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities may be insufficient if the assumptions underlying the provisions, including our assumptions regarding the portion of waste at a site for which we are responsible, prove incorrect or if we are held responsible for additional contamination or occupational health and safety-related claims.
Misuse of social media platforms and new technology Impact We increasingly use the internet, social media, mobile applications and Inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could lead to other forms of new technology to communicate internally and externally.
misuse including public disclosure of sensitive information The accessibility and instantaneous nature of interactions with such media such as personally identiable information on employees, may facilitate or exacerbate the risk of data leakages from within AstraZeneca healthcare professionals or patients, for example, those enrolled or false or misleading statements being made about AstraZeneca, which may in our clinical trials, which may damage our reputation and be damaging to our reputation.
As social media platforms expand, it becomes expose us to legal risks as well as additional legal obligations.
increasingly challenging to identify new points of entry and to put structures Similarly, the involuntary public disclosure of commercially in place to secure and protect information.
sensitive information such as trade secrets through external media channels, or an information loss, could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
In addition, negative posts or comments on social media websites about us or, for example, the safety of any of our products, could harm our reputation.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 83 Performance | Risk Economic and financial risks Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn Impact A variety of significant risks may arise from a sustained global economic While we have adopted cash management and treasury policies downturn.
Additional pressure from governments and other healthcare payers to manage this risk see Financial risk management policies on medicine prices and volumes of sales in response to recessionary pressures section on page 99, we cannot be certain that these will be on budgets may cause a slowdown or a decline in growth in some markets.
as effective as they are intended to be, in particular in the event In some cases, those governments most severely impacted by the economic of a global liquidity crisis.
In addition, open positions where we downturn may seek alternative ways to settle their debts through, for example, are owed money and investments we have made in financial the issuance of government bonds which might trade at a discount to the face institution money market funds cannot be guaranteed to be value of the debt.
Additionally, if we need access to external sources of nancing to sustain and or grow our business, such as the In addition, our customers may cease to trade, which may result in losses debt or equity capital financial markets, this may not be available from writing off debts.
We are highly dependent on being able to access a on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe sustainable ow of liquid funds due to the high xed costs of operating our and or sustained economic downturn.
This may, for instance, business and the long and uncertain development cycles of our products.
be the case in the event of any default by the Group on its debt In a sustained economic downturn, financial institutions with whom we deal obligations, which may materially adversely affect our ability to may cease to trade and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to secure debt funding in the future or our financial condition in access monies owed to us without a protracted, expensive and uncertain general.
Further information on debt funding arrangements is process, if at all.
contained in the Financial risk management policies section More than 95% of our cash investments are managed centrally and are invested on page 99. in AAA credit rated institutional money market funds backed by institutions in the US and the EU, which, in turn, invest in other funds, including sovereign funds.
This means our credit exposure is a mix of US sovereign default risk and financial institution default risk.
Political and socio-economic conditions Impact We operate in over 100 countries across the world, some of which may be Deterioration of, or failure to improve, socio-economic conditions, subject to political and social instability.
There may be disruption to our business and situations and or events resulting therefrom, depending on if there is instability in a particular geographic region, including as a result of war, their severity, could adversely affect our supply and or distribution terrorism, riot, unstable governments, civil insurrection or social unrest.
chain in the affected countries and the ability of customers or ultimate payers to purchase our medicines.
This could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations.
Impact of uctuations in exchange rates Impact As a global business, currency uctuations can signicantly affect our results Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign of operations, which are reported in US dollars.
Approximately 38% of our currencies into US dollars may materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.
Additionally, some global 2012 sales were in the US, which is expected to remain our largest single market for the foreseeable future.
Sales in other countries are predominantly in of our subsidiaries import and export goods and services in currencies other than their own functional currency and so currencies other than the US dollar, including the euro, Japanese yen, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
We have a growing exposure to emerging market the financial results of such subsidiaries could be affected by currencies, where some have exchange controls in place, but for others the currency uctuations arising between the transaction dates and exchange rates are also linked to the US dollar.
Major components of our cost the settlement dates for these transactions.
In addition, there are base are located in the UK and Sweden, where an aggregate of approximately foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of equity 25.9% of our employees are based.
See Note 23 to the Financial Statements from page 175.
Limited third party insurance coverage Impact In recent years, the costs associated with product liability litigation have If we are found to have a financial liability as a result of product increased the cost of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, pharmaceutical liability or other litigation, in respect of which we do not have companies product liability insurance.
To contain insurance costs in recent appropriate insurance, or if an insurers denial of coverage is years, we have continued to adjust our coverage prole, accepting a greater ultimately upheld, this could materially adversely affect our degree of uninsured exposure.
The Group has not held any material product business or results of operations.
For details about litigation liability insurance since February 2006.
In addition, where claims are made with a number of insurers with respect to the Seroquel IR liability under insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage on claim, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 184. various grounds.
For example, product liability litigation cases relating to Crestor For more information, see the Substantial product liability claims and Nexium in the US are not covered by third party product liability insurance.
See Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 183 for details.
84 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Taxation Impact The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce conicting The resolution of these disputes can result in a reallocation of claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual profits between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in countries.
The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate have double related tax costs, and has the potential to affect our cash ows tax treaties with other foreign jurisdictions, which provide a framework for and EPS.
Claims, regardless of their merits or their outcome, mitigating the incidence of double taxation on our revenues and capital gains.
are costly, divert management attention and may adversely affect our reputation.
If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, especially in a territory where a member of the Group is involved in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could materially adversely affect our business or results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or a failure by the tax authorities to agree through competent authority proceedings.
See the Financial risk management policies section on page 99 for tax risk management policies and Note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 189 for details of current tax disputes.
Pensions Impact Our pension obligations are backed by assets invested across the broad Sustained falls in these asset values will put a strain on funding, investment market.
Our most significant obligations relate to the UK pension fund.
which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting cash available for strategic business growth.
Similarly, if the liabilities increase as a result of a sustained low interest rate environment, there will be a strain on funding from the business.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors may cause the ratings agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt.
See Note 18 to the Financial Statements from page 167 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 85
