BPs risk management system assists in: BPs risk management system t Understanding the risk environment for input into the strategy.
BPs risk management system focuses on three levels of activity: t Understanding which risk types we operate with, given the strategy.
Day-to-day risk management the system helps facilitate day-to-day t Identifying and assessing the specic risks and the potential exposure risk management in the groups operations and functions, with the they may represent.
approach varying according to the types of risk faced.
Risks are to be t Decision-making on how best to deal with those risks to manage identied and managed, and actions to improve the management of risk overall potential exposure.
are to be put in place where necessary.
The aim is to address each different type of risk as well as we can promoting safe, compliant and t Active management of identied risks.
t Reporting to management and the board about how those risks are managed, and monitoring of potential exposure.
Business and strategic risk management for BPs businesses and functions, risks arising are to be collated periodically, risk management t Obtaining assurance over the effectiveness of the management of activities are to be assessed, and any necessary further improvements or those risks.
actions are to be planned.
The system is designed to facilitate this by t Intervening for improvements in the management of those risks incorporating a standardized form called the risk management report where necessary.
RMR, for businesses and functions to report consistently the risks they t Considering the effect of the external environment and business face for management consideration, challenge, resource allocation and activities on the principal activities of BPs risk management system.
This enables the integration of risk into key business processes such as strategy, planning, performance management, The willingness to take and appropriately manage certain risk is resource allocation and project appraisal.
fundamental to the success of any commercial enterprise.
For example, in our upstream business we consciously place significant amounts of Board, executive and functional oversight the system facilitates capital at risk in exploring for new hydrocarbon resources.
Where this executive and board oversight and governance over the management of exploration is successful, we would generally expect it to lead to future significant risks.
It requires executive team level involvement in the increases in our proved reserves and future cash ows.
However, nalization of risk management activities and improvement plans for the exploration expenditure may not yield adequate returns, for example in the groups most significant individual risks.
Using the consistent bottom-up case of unproductive wells or discoveries that prove uneconomic to risk identication and assessment process, coupled with top-down develop.
executive overview, the system requires that the most significant risks requiring oversight are identied.
Oversight of the management of these Risk management and reporting in 2012 risks is to be provided through regular review by the board or one of its During 2012, BPs segments, strategic performance units and functions committees.
The most significant risks were organized into common categories strategic risks, safety and operational risks and compliance Risk management: from operations to the board and controls risks so they could be assessed and reported up the line in the standardized form.
This helped provide an overall data set of the key risks identied, an assessment of their potential impact and likelihood on a Occurs periodically at Occurs periodically at Occurs periodically at Occurs periodically at Occurs periodically at Board oversight consistent basis, information on how they were being managed and any board level board level board level board level board level actions planned or in progress to improve the management of risk.
Based Results in oversight of Results in oversight of Results in oversight of Results in oversight of Results in oversight t of on these RMRs, together with additional executive overview, a single group risks group risks group risks group risks group risks group RMR has been prepared.
Those risks identied on the group RMR requiring particular group-level oversight in the coming year are allocated to specic board and executive committees for oversight and monitoring.
Also see Risk factors on pages 38-44 for a description of the material risks we face in our business.
Occurs periodically at executive Occurs periodically at executive Occurs periodically at executive Executive and Executive and board oversight of risk and function levels and function levels and function levels functional oversight The executive and board examine particular group risks both on a periodic Results in governance over Results in governance over Results in governance over basis and as part of the development and review of the annual plan.
The group risks group risks group risks board also conducts an annual review of the risk management and internal control systems as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year there is exibility to change which risks have been identied as requiring particular oversight and which have been allocated to the executive or board, in the event there are any changes to the Occurs periodically at business internal or external environments or events arising.
Business risk and and function leadership levels strategic risk management The executive committees monitor the group risks in the following areas: Results in integration of risk t ETM for strategic and commercial risks.
into key business processes t GORC for health, safety, security and environment and operations integrity risks.
t GFRC for finance and trading risks.
t GDC for financial reporting risk.
Occurs at operations Day-to-day risk and functions t GPC for people risks.
management Promotes safe, compliant t RCM for risks related to investment decisions.
and reliable operations t GECC for ethics and compliance risks.
118 Corporate governance BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Corporate governance Following review of the 2013 annual plan, the following risks have been allocated for review by the board and its committees: t The board has been allocated several strategic and commercial group risks, including risks associated with the global economic climate, the delivery of BPs 10-point plan, our activities in Russia and reputation management.
t The audit committee has been allocated a number of strategic and commercial and compliance and control risks, including risks associated with treasury and trading activities, compliance with applicable laws and regulations and security threats against our digital infrastructure.
t The SEEAC has been allocated several safety and operational risks, including risks associated with conducting our operations through joint ventures where BP may not have full operational control.
Other safety and operational risks the committee has been allocated include the health, safety, security and environmental risks of incidents associated with the drilling of wells, operation of facilities, pipelines and marine activity.
t The Gulf of Mexico committee has been allocated a number of strategic and commercial risks, including risks associated with the extent and timing of costs and liabilities relating to the accident and compliance with plea agreements.
Corporate governance 119 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012
