Corporate governance Executive committees are established by the group chief executive to Risk in BP assist him in discharging his board delegations.
Their role includes setting policy, making decisions and overseeing the management of risks and Risk management is the foundation for reinforcing safety, building trust performance.
The executive committees are: executive team meeting and growing value.
In 2012 BP continued to review, refresh and enhance ETM : group operations risk committee GORC : group financial risk its management of risk.
committee GFRC : group disclosure committee GDC : group people committee GPC : resource commitments meeting RCM : and group The role of the board ethics and compliance committee GECC.
One of the key tasks of the board is to satisfy itself that the material risks to BP are identied and understood and that systems of risk management, Review of risk management compliance and control are in place to mitigate such risks.
The board In 2012, the review to enhance the clarity, consistency and simplicity of requires the group chief executive to operate with a comprehensive BPs risk management system was completed.
system of controls and internal audit to identify and manage the risks that We have embedded common language, concepts and templates for are material to BP.
consistent reporting on risks and risk management: enhancements to Board governance includes monitoring committees comprised of those board and executive processes: and greater alignment of risk directors best suited to serve on them, including the audit: the safety, management activities and business processes.
These improvements ethics and environment assurance: and the Gulf of Mexico committees.
build from BPs existing management systems, standards and practices.
The role of executive management A group risk team, effective 1 January 2013, has been established to hold a view of the group risk prole to inform key businesses processes and The group chief executive maintains BPs system of internal control.
The decisions: co-ordinate group risk reporting activities: and maintain the system of internal control comprises the holistic set of management group risk management system.
systems, organizational structures, processes, standards and behaviours that are employed to conduct the business of BP.
The system is designed to meet the expectations of internal control of the Corporate Governance Code in the UK and of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO in the US.
Key elements of the system include: BPs set of corporate values, behaviours and code of conduct: group strategic framework, including risk management: how the company is organized and managed: and how we verify that the system is working.
BPs risk management system is an integral part of its system of internal control, and is designed to be a simple, consistent and clear framework for managing and reporting all risk from the groups operations to the board.
Risk management structures BP board SEEAC Gulf of Mexico committee Main board audit committee Group chief executive Executive team Resource Group people Group disclosure Group Group Group ethics and commitments committee committee financial risk operations risk compliance meeting committee committee committee Enterprise wide risk views to inform key business process Group risk management reporting and risk management action plan Day-to-day risk management Code of conduct Operating management People management Financial management system system system Leadership teams Businesses Functions How we verify Corporate governance 117 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 Group risk team Internal audit
