M n o o i n t i a t u o l r a i v n E g n R o i e t s a c p 32 Strategy Our risks Risk management Our risks It is our aim to manage risk so that we can successfully deliver our objectives, creating shareholder value while promoting the interests In common with all businesses, we are affected by a of our many stakeholders through the safeguarding of our assets and number of risks and uncertainties which are inuenced reputation.
by both internal and external factors, some of which We have in place group-wide risk management processes for the are not within our control.
Many of our risks are similar identication, evaluation, response and subsequent monitoring of risks to those of comparable companies in terms of scale which may signicantly threaten the accomplishment of our objectives and long-term strategic aim.
Our four stage risk management process is summarised below: Principal risks and uncertainties This section highlights principal risks and uncertainties affecting our business but it is not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risk and uncertainty affecting us.
These risks have the potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources adversely.
Our processes are designed to give reasonable, but cannot give absolute, assurance that the risks significant to us are identied and addressed.
There may be risks which are unknown or which are presently judged not to be significant but later prove to be significant.
Business Uncertainty in global economic and credit market conditions remains a activities major challenge to businesses globally.
This is particularly true in Europe where there are concerns over government debt levels and possible currency re-denomination risks.
In common with many other businesses we remain conscious of the adverse impact that unfavourable economic and credit conditions may have on our business.
This economic uncertainty manifests itself in several of the risks we face, and we focus our efforts on the management of those principal risks.
The principal risks we reported last year have evolved in nature, as has our response to them, and we explain these changes in our principal During 2012 we introduced enhancements to our risk management risks section below.
process, including: We also include comment on mitigation that is, what we can do to reduce the likelihood or impact of the risk that we apply to help us Risk reporting manage the risks.
However, it is possible that not all mitigation will be Improving the way we report risks to senior management, by providing successful.
a clearer focus on the key areas of concern.
This makes it easier for our managers to take account of risks in their decision making.
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in conjunction with the risk management process, the forward-looking statements for this document and the cautionary statement regarding Risk evaluation forward-looking statements.
Enhancing our evaluation of risks, for example through consideration of when risks may materialise and when and how the impact may be felt.
This helps us make informed decisions about how we will respond to the Please see the cautionary statement regarding 175 risks we face.
forward-looking statements on page Risk training Improving our risk training, such as through the development of new computer-based training modules.
We see continued education and awareness as vital ingredients in developing and maintaining intelligent risk management in our business.
o i t n n s e e d I Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Strategy 33 Our risks Risk management framework Our risk management framework is explained below: Audit & Risk The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that our risks are managed Board Committee appropriately and, either directly, or through the Audit & Risk Committee, undertakes regular reviews of the management of our risks at group-wide, line of business and internal service units levels.
Operating The Operating Committee is responsible for identifying, evaluating, responding to and Committee monitoring risks.
Those risks that are significant to us are reported and monitored through the Group Risk Register.
Each risk is assigned a management owner who is responsible for the ongoing monitoring and management of the risk.
The Operating Committee reviews these risks through detailed monthly reviews as well as performing six-monthly reviews of the Group Risk Register.
Group Risk The Board and the Operating Committee are supported in their oversight of risk Panel management by the Group Risk Panel.
The Group Risk Panel reviews the Group Risk Register in detail on a quarterly basis, considers new or emerging risks, makes recommendations on the strength of mitigations and monitors the work of the group risk management function.
Our reporting is structured so that emerging key risks are escalated through management to the Board as appropriate.
Line of Line of business business & Each line of business and service unit operates a risk management process as part of our & service unit service unit Enterprise Risk Management framework.
This includes identifying and responding to the key audit & leadership risks to their business, which are captured in a risk register and reviewed by their leadership risk committees teams teams.
Audit and risk committees in each line of business and service unit provide assurance over the effectiveness of their risk management processes.
Assurance Management Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 34 34 Strategy Our risks Our principal risks Security and resilience Major contracts Our reputation for secure and resilient services relies on the We have a number of complex and high-value contracts with quality, integrity and reliability of our global information systems, certain customers.
The revenue arising from, and the profitability networks and infrastructure.
The scale of our business and global of, these contracts are subject to a number of factors including: nature of our operations means we are required to manage variation in cost and achievement of cost reductions anticipated significant volumes of personal and commercially sensitive in the contract pricing, both in terms of scale and time: delays information which are stored and transmitted to meet our own in delivery or achieving agreed milestones owing to factors business purposes and those of our customers.
All of this needs to either within or outside of our control: changes in customers be safeguarded from potential exposure, loss or corruption.
requirements, budgets, strategies or businesses: the performance of our suppliers, and other factors.
Any of these factors could Increasing dependence on voice and data transmission in a variety make a contract less profitable or even loss making.
of forms is accompanied by high expectations about service The degree of risk varies generally in proportion to the scope and continuity.
In addition, concerns about interception, corruption life of the contract and is typically higher in the early transitional and theft of information lead to requirements for stringent and transformational stages of the contract.
Some customer security measures, in an environment where attacks are becoming contracts require investment in the early stages, which is expected more frequent and sophisticated.
Certain of our customers to be recovered over the life of the contract.
Major contracts often require specic, highly sophisticated security provisioning which involve the implementation of new systems and communications we are contractually obliged to meet if we are to continue to be networks, transformation of legacy networks and the development able to differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors.
The recoverability of these upfront costs may be adversely impacted by delays or failure to meet milestones.
Changes over the last year Substantial performance risk exists in these contracts, and some or Reports of and attention paid to computer hacking incidents all elements of performance depend upon successful completion of have increased concerns about the likelihood of a cyber attack.
the transition, development, transformation and deployment phases.
Enhanced laptop encryption and significant improvements in the protection and segregation of credit card data are some measures Changes over the last year which we have taken to manage this risk.
We continue to evolve Global economic and credit market conditions, in Europe in our strategy and capabilities to seek to protect our business particular, have put increased financial and operational pressures against the threat of attacks.
The increased threat we have faced on our customers and have made the environment even more in the UK from cable theft, together with actions we have taken in competitive.
As we continue to expand into emerging markets, response, are set out in more detail on page23.
the landscape of our risks and opportunities naturally changes as we must deal with rapidly evolving geo-political risks and Impact different trading environments and business practices.
We are Failure or interruption of data transfer could have a significant able to draw on our experience in managing these risks and will adverse effect on our business.
A breach of our security and or continue to apply the control framework and mitigation that is in resilience affecting our own operations or those of our customers place for our major contracts.
could lead to an extended interruption to network services and even affect national infrastructure.
Such failure may lead to a loss Impact of customer confidence, termination of contracts, loss of revenue, Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these and reduced cash resources through penalties and unplanned contracts, as well as changes in customers requirements, budgets, costs of restoration and improvement.
Additional reputational strategies or businesses, may lead to a reduction in our expected damage and financial loss may arise from a breach involving a future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
We may lose legal failing such as breaching data protection requirements.
revenue due to the merger or acquisition of customers, changes to customer strategy, business failure or contract termination.
Failure Risk mitigation to replace the revenue and earnings lost from such customers could We operate well established policies addressing the security and lead to an overall reduction in revenue, profitability and cash ow.
resilience requirements of our operations, our own systems and Risk mitigation systems operated by us for our customers.
Compliance with these We have in place business processes that support each stage of a policies is routinely monitored.
We apply stringent application major contracts life cycle: bid: in-life: renewal, and termination.
and data encryption measures, deploy increasingly sophisticated Our programme of in-life reviews has continued over the past anomaly and intrusion detection systems and utilise distributed year.
It is designed to validate financial and non-financial controls and virtual data centre designs which provide much greater over delivery of the contract.
It incorporates tiered levels of inherent resilience.
We have a corporate resilience strategy that dened review according to the scale and complexity of the combines formal business continuity plans with well tested, contract.
Controls are applied and regularly monitored across our rapid and exible responses.
These are designed to deal with major contracts.
All our major contracts are subject to regular catastrophic incidents including for example, major terrorist management review and many are subject to independent review action, industrial action, cyber attacks or natural disasters.
both internal and external as part of that governance.
Given our important role in the forthcoming London 2012 We have started rolling out new and revised risk training material Olympic and Paralympic Games, safeguards and deterrent with the objective of improving identication, evaluation and measures have been increased, and incident responses rehearsed, management of risk on our major contracts.
Our independent to increase the likelihood that any potential incidents can be review programme continues to help us identify lessons learned contained and dealt with as quickly as possible.
and to promote best practice through the business.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Strategy 35 35 Our risks Growth in a competitive market Pensions We operate in markets which are characterised by high levels of We have a significant funding obligation in relation to our dened competition including: declining prices: technology substitution: benefit pension schemes.
Declining investment returns, longer market and service convergence: customer churn: declining rates life expectancy and regulatory changes may result in the cost of growth: emerging competitors, and regulatory intervention of funding BTs main dened benefit pension scheme, the BT to promote competition.
A significant proportion of our revenue Pension Scheme BTPS, becoming a significant burden on our and profit is generated in the UK telecoms markets which are financial resources.
experiencing limited revenue growth despite strong volume demands in many markets.
Revenue from our calls and lines Changes over the last year services to consumers and businesses has historically been in The triennial funding valuation of the BTPS at 30 June 2011 and decline but new broadband and connectivity markets are showing associated recovery plan was agreed with the BTPS Trustee and continuing growing demand.
Our ability to deliver profitable certied by the Scheme Actuary in May 2012.
Under this prudent revenue growth in a responsible and sustainable manner depends funding valuation basis the deficit was 3.9bn and a recovery on delivering on our strategic priorities see page 24. plan was agreed in order to return the BTPS to a fully funded position on an actuarial funding basis by 31March 2021.
Changes over the last year The valuation documentation will now be submitted to the The level of risk facing our business due to competition has Pensions Regulator.
The final Court decision in the Crown increased with new competitors emerging and our customers in Guarantee case, after any appeals, will give greater clarity as to the UK and globally facing uncertainty in the economic outlook.
the extent to which the liabilities of the BTPS are covered by a Regulatory changes which now allow competitors to deploy Crown Guarantee.
This will inform the Pension Regulators next access bre using our duct and poles have also contributed to steps with regards to the valuation of the Scheme.
Accordingly, the increased level of risk.
The competitive challenges across as matters stand, it is uncertain as to when they will conclude our different markets continue to evolve.
In a number of their review.
our markets we remain disadvantaged by imbalances in the competitive playing eld.
Some of our competitors benefit from Impact a combination of limited regulation applied to their core business An increase in the pension deficit and associated funding and extensive sector specic regulation being applied to our requirements would have a direct adverse impact on our future UK xed-line business.
Competition remains strong in the UK cash resources.
Indirectly it may also have an adverse impact on consumer xed communications retail and wholesale markets.
our share price and credit rating.
Any deterioration in the credit In managed networked IT services for multinational companies, rating would increase our cost of borrowing and may limit the competition is increasingly centred on value-added network IT availability or exibility of future funding thereby affecting our services rather than network connectivity.
ability to invest, pay dividends or repay debt as it matures.
Impact Risk mitigation Failure to achieve profitable revenue growth from our strategic The investment performance and liability experience, as well as priorities may lead to a continued decline in revenue, erosion of the associated risks and mitigation strategy, is regularly reviewed our competitive position and might also lead to a reduction in and monitored by both us and the BTPS Trustee.
The BTPS has profitability and cash ow in the future.
a well-diversied investment strategy, which reduces the risk of adverse movements in the value of individual asset classes Risk mitigation and helps ensure that an efficient balance of risk and return is Against this competitive backdrop we remain focused on maintained.
successfully defending our existing business and offering new services in converging markets.
We continue to press for changes The funding deficit was reduced by a lump sum payment of in regulation to level the playing eld so that we can compete 2.0bn into the BTPS in March 2012, following a provisional efficiently for the benefit of customers.
We have a clearly agreement with the BTPS Trustee on the funding valuation at 30 dened strategy aimed at increasing shareholder value, as set June 2011.
Completing the valuation in a timely manner has out on pages 23 to 28.
The delivery of our strategic priorities provided additional certainty for us and members of the BTPS on will help improve our revenue trends.
Our strategic priorities are future payments to the BTPS.
underpinned by our view of the markets in which we operate.
We Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of have a well-developed cost transformation programme in place protection that enables variations in the funding position of the which has achieved significant savings and helped maintain a BTPS to be managed without having a material impact on the competitive cost base.
ongoing performance of our business.
We have taken action to make the management of this risk more integral to our business.
These steps have built on our existing processes which are primarily focused on monitoring performance against business plans and allowing timely interventions where appropriate.
Management incentives have been changed to ensure better alignment and growth in underlying revenue excluding transit now carries a 20% weighting as a performance measure in our incentive share awards see page 80.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 36 36 Strategy Our risks Compliance in a global environment Communications industry regulation The global nature of our operations means that we have to Some of our activities continue to be subject to significant price comply with a wide range of local and international legislative and other regulatory controls which may affect our market share, requirements.
Our legal compliance obligations include anticompetitive position, future profitability and cash.
Many of our trust and anti-corruption legislation, competition law, data wholesale products in the UK are subject to significant regulatory privacy, trade sanctions, import and export controls, taxation and controls.
The controls regulate, among other things, the prices we telecoms regulatory requirements.
can charge for many of our services and the extent to which we have to provide services to other CPs.
In recent years the effect of Changes over the last year these controls has required us to reduce our prices, although in Some of the countries where we operate have increased their some cases, prices have been allowed to increase in real terms.
enforcement of local laws and therefore the potential impact Regulatory decisions in all jurisdictions in which we operate of failing to comply with local and international legislative can directly impact our financial position.
In the UK, Ofcom requirements has increased signicantly.
The UK Bribery Act has powers to directly amend the prices we set and therefore which also has effect outside the UK came into effect in July the revenue we earn in certain markets.
These can extend to 2011, with penalties for non-compliant businesses through the requiring us to make retrospective repayments to other CPs for introduction of a corporate offence of failing to have adequate past overcharging and imposing fines for non-compliance with procedures in place to prevent bribery.
the regulatory rules including competition law.
Outside the UK, regulation defines where and how we are able to compete Impact through general licensing requirements and dening the Failure by our employees, suppliers or agents to comply with wholesale charges we pay for access.
anti-bribery and corruption legislation including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, or any failure in our Regulation usually operates within a clear legislative framework policies and procedures to monitor and prevent non-compliance, that is stable in the medium to long-term.
Risks of negative anywhere in the world, could result in substantial penalties, regulatory decisions arise from within those frameworks.
For criminal prosecution and significant damage to our reputation.
instance, in the UK, risks can arise from periodic market reviews which may introduce tighter regulatory constraints, for example, More broadly, failure to comply with legal requirements can have from new charge controls, or from CPs raising disputes or a significant impact and lead to reputational and brand damage complaints about our current or historical pricing.
Risks also with investors, regulators and customers.
This could in turn arise as legal challenges are brought by others against Ofcom impact our future revenue streams, the extent of which would be decisions.
Outside the UK, regulators can conduct investigations dependent on the nature of the breach, the legislation concerned into our licensing requirements and whether the services we offer and any associated penalties.
Risk mitigation Changes over the last year We have in place a number of established controls to address risk Over the last year, we have seen regulatory activity in a number in this area.
These include a comprehensive ethics programme, of areas which are summarised in the Regulation section on The Way We Work our statement of business practice, and antipage 18.
A number of these rulings have resulted in a negative corruption and bribery policies.
We also have policies covering impact either through retrospective price reductions or on our gifts and hospitality, charitable donations and sponsorship, future pricing.
We have a training programme for staff with a focus on roles such Impact as procurement and sales.
In recent years changes in price controls have required us to reduce our prices and in some instances to make payments in We operate a governance structure with five regional governance respect of retrospective price adjustments.
Additional or more committees focusing on the implementation of the programme.
substantial regulatory price reductions could constrain our These regional committees cover the US and Canada, Asia Pacic, revenue performance.
Latin America, EMEA, and the UK and Republic of Ireland.
We may be required to provide new services to wholesale A regular risk assessment is undertaken to ensure that the customers on a non-discriminatory basis, increasing our costs appropriate mitigation is in place and is regularly refreshed.
We and increasing retail competition.
Disputes may result either in operate a condential hotline where messages can be left in reduced revenue or increased costs going forward.
We may also person, via voicemail or by anonymous email.
We run regular be required to make retrospective payments to CPs if it is ruled checks on our business using Internal Audit teams as well as that we have overcharged them.
Appeals may change Ofcoms external providers.
We review our business operations to ensure decisions, which had originally been concluded in our favour.
that our policies have been complied with.
Risk mitigation We continuously monitor and review potential regulatory changes and disputes, and maintain a dialogue with regulators and other key inuencers on critical issues.
We use external advisors to advise and support our positions and thoroughly assess the potential for a legal challenge to any regulatory decisions.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview Strategy 37 37 Our risks Supply chain We are dependent on our supply chain for the delivery of goods and services on time, to cost and to specication.
Failure of any of our critical suppliers to meet agreed requirements could adversely impact our customer service, product launches, updates to business critical systems, revenue or cost reduction plans.
We are committed to ensuring that all dealings with suppliers, from selection and consultation to contracting and payment are conducted in accordance with our trading and ethical policies.
See Suppliers in Our resources section on page 31.
Our supply chain is global and we aim to harness the capability, diversity and innovation of our supply market to add value to our business and customers.
Many suppliers are being impacted by the economic downturn and the challenges of globalisation.
This is introducing further risk in our supply chain which includes, but is not limited to: increase in supplier insolvency: lack of supplier resilience following a natural disaster: lack of compliance with anti corruption and bribery legislation: corporate social responsibility risks in our extended supply chain, and security risks relating to data protection.
Changes over the last year Over the last year we have seen the impact of a number of natural disasters including the Japanese earthquake and oods in Thailand.
Both, to some extent, have had an impact on the supply of components used in the manufacture of our products although the impact on us was minimised through robust supplier business continuity plans.
The current global economic and credit market conditions, particularly in Europe, mean an increased risk of suppliers failing.
Impact Our suppliers could be adversely affected by continuing uncertain economic conditions which in turn could impact their ability to meet their obligations to us or, in the extreme, cause them to fail.
If we are unable to contract with an alternative supplier our customer commitments could also be compromised leading to contractual breach, loss of revenue, penalties or increased costs.
A failure in our supply chain to meet legal obligations or ethical expectations could adversely impact our reputation or possibly lead to censure, legal action and financial loss.
Risk mitigation We continue to mitigate risks in this area through a number of measures including: globally coordinated vendor management programmes: rigorous bid controls: supplier risk assessments including focus on our most critical suppliers: our Procurement Academy Programme: anti-corruption and bribery awareness training, and corporate responsibility and compliance health checks.
We work with our suppliers to ensure that the goods and services that we buy are made, delivered and disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible manner.
Our sourcing strategies consider a wide range of potential risks.
Our plans are aimed at mitigating against, for example, the impact of potential natural disasters or the current global economic conditions on our suppliers.
We thereby seek to minimise the risk of not being able to meet our customer and legal commitments or comply with our ethical policies.
This helps to minimise our exposure to loss of revenue, financial penalty and any adverse impact on our brand and reputation.
Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview 38 Only two or three companies BT Global Services a global leader in the world can do what BT CLSA Asia-Pacic Markets is Asias leading does today for customers.
independent brokerage and investment group.
It chose BT to provide a fully managed voice, data, BT has proven itself to be and trading systems solution across 14 countries in the Asia Pacic region, the UK, and the US.
the ideal partner for us as it Under the seven-year agreement, BT is helping CLSA combines market-leading to ex its communication and IT requirements by implementing an innovative, global utility-based expertise in our sector needs pricing model for BTs networked IT services and the deployment of BT Unied Trading for with unique breadth and trading communications.
depth of network capabilities all around the world.
Thiyagarajah Rajah Chief Information officer, CLSA Asia-Pacic Markets Additional information Additional information Financial statements Financial statements Governance Governance Performance Performance Strategy Strategy Business Business Overview Overview
