Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 21 Principal risks and uncertainties As described on pages 51 and 52, the Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and its risk management systems.
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business, the top five health and safety risks identied at each site, and the risk control procedures implemented.
The Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board, and through this process, the Board has identied the following principal risks currently facing the Group.
The mitigating actions taken by the Group management to address these risks are also set out below.
The Group mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and liability risks, where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
Risk description Mitigation actions Health and safety risks Health and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting, and is discussed at The nature of those Group operations the monthly Group Executive Committee meeting.
The Board believes that responsibility which utilise energetic materials is for the delivery of world class safety standards is an integral part of operational such that the Board considers health management accountability, and managers are therefore expected to embrace a positive and safety to be a key area of focus in safety culture and to demonstrate leadership and commitment in the workplace.
employees are encouraged to report potential hazards, and to raise any health and safety concerns through the appropriate channels.
Our stated aim is to achieve zero injuries, and to reduce health and safety risks, where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to a level which is as low as reasonably practicable.
All businesses are expected to proactively manage their own risks but, in addition, the top five site risks at each business and their associated mitigation programmes are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Group Executive Committee and quarterly by the Risk Management Committee.
Technology and automation roadmaps support the Groups strategy for risk reduction through increased automation and remote operations, and this strategy is reected in the Groups five year plan.
Further details on the Groups approach to health and safety are set out in the corporate responsibility review.
Possible defence budget cuts In recognition of the issues affecting our traditional NATO markets, we are focusing We recognise that with large budget our growth strategy on non-NATO markets, where defence expenditure is forecast deficits and the prevailing economic to grow strongly over the next five to ten years.
We have made good progress on the conditions, there will be continued establishment of a joint venture in India, and we are also in discussions with potential downward pressure on many countries joint venture partners in Saudi Arabia and Brazil.
budgets, and consequently, defence We also continually assess whether our planned organic growth strategies and product expenditure could be severely impacted.
developments align with government priorities for future funding.
Most of our product In particular, the Group has significant development programmes take between six and twelve months to complete, and we exposure to the US defence market, believe that this gives the Group the agility to quickly re-deploy engineering staff to where there is currently considerable product areas where funding is more secure.
uncertainty in relation to the potential We continue to closely monitor the position in all the key markets in which we operate.
impact of sequestration on the defence budget for 2013 and 2014.
Timing and value of orders As referred to above, we are focusing on expanding our business in non-NATO markets, The Groups order book has decreased in where defence expenditure is forecast to increase.
the last year, principally as a consequence Maximising order intake remains a key objective for our businesses, and we continue of the delay in receipt of a number of key to address this through the strengthening of our sales and marketing resources.
In general, the majority of the We also continue to pursue long term, multi-year contracts with our major customers Groups contracts are of a relatively short wherever possible.
duration and, with the exception The development of world class manufacturing facilities, with the ability to transfer of framework contracts with key manufacturing across sites and with an efficient enterprise resource planning system, customers, do not usually cover also provides us with the exibility to change our manufacturing schedules, if multi-year requirements.
This means that anticipated orders are delayed and need to be replaced at short notice, and to satisfy an unmitigated delay in the receipt of our customers surge requirements.
orders could affect the Groups earnings, and achievement of its growth targets, in We currently have various initiatives under way which are aimed at restoring the any given financial year.
profitability of the Groups businesses which have suffered most from order delays in the last year.
We anticipate that the recent delays in the placement of orders by our traditional NATO customers, due to budgetary constraints, are likely to continue in the short to medium term.
We therefore need to ensure that our businesses are properly positioned to continue to trade profitably during periods of reduced order intake.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 22 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description Mitigation actions Political risks Our businesses strive to maintain relationships at all levels within the political structure It is recognised that political unrest of certain key countries, in order to ensure that we are aware of and can respond to and changes in the political structure proposed changes, if and when they occur.
in certain non-NATO countries to which The Groups Counter-IED, Munitions and Pyrotechnics businesses are less dependent we currently sell could impact on their on active military operations, particularly as our electronics activities expand and future defence expenditure strategy and our product portfolio continues to grow in areas such as IED-detection, space, safety our ability to export products to these systems, training, munitions components and naval ammunition.
During periods of unrest, delays in obtaining export licences can result in delayed revenues.
It is also recognised that current military operations around the world may change in nature or diminish over the next three to five years.
Certain of our businesses have already been impacted by the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and Iraq.
Introduction of new Progress on all significant capital investment projects is closely monitored by the manufacturing facilities Group Executive Committee and the Board.
We continue to invest in the Dedicated project managers have been appointed to oversee all of our major capital establishment of new manufacturing expenditure programmes in the US and Europe.
We need to Our new UK countermeasures facility has taken longer to complete than originally ensure that these facilities are completed expected, principally due to the significant challenges associated with the new within budget and on time, in order to automated processes which are being installed, but we now expect the facility to be maximise our manufacturing capacity for commissioned during 2013.
The Australian countermeasures facility has been completed our future growth expectations.
Introduction of new products We continue to strengthen our engineering resources to ensure that we have the right The Groups approach to innovation and people in place to deliver product development activities in support of our five year plan.
continued emphasis on research and We have established relationships with a number of prominent universities, which are development activity ensure that we are focused on exploring new technologies and products for future development.
continually adding new products to the We continue to invest in new manufacturing facilities to accommodate the production range.
We need to ensure that this new of new products, and to increase capacity on our existing production lines.
This product development is completed in a necessitates careful management of contractors where construction work is being timely manner, to a standard which allows undertaken: suppliers where new components have to be qualied for use in our us to undertake volume manufacturing products: and employees where training in new skills is required.
We continue to and to produce products against high introduce Six Sigma techniques as appropriate within the organisation to improve our reliability and safety criteria to meet our manufacturing capabilities.
Product failure We maintain rigorous control of our production processes, monitoring critical Many of our products are single-use parameters on a batch or unit basis.
We apply state-of-the-art techniques, including devices, where it is impossible to conduct statistical process control or Six Sigma, and where appropriate, automate processes to functional testing without destroying the reduce the scope for human operator error.
We also conduct detailed assessments of product.
There is a risk that products may incoming components on materials to ensure compliance with specications.
fail, either in use or during customers Finally, we perform a range of non-destructive and sample-based functional tests on all own sample-based functional tests.
our products, to ensure a level of in-service reliability and integrity appropriate to the Where we procure components for our product application.
products from third parties, we need to ensure that the suppliers adhere to our high quality standards and that the components are reliable.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 23 Risk description Mitigation actions Competitive risks The nature of the threat from missiles and other weapons is continually changing, Defence is a global industry, which is particularly as new platforms are introduced in different countries, and countermeasure constantly challenged to counter solutions need to develop on an ongoing basis to meet the enhanced requirements.
The Groups number of countermeasures manufacturers is currently small: however, as technologies strategy is to focus on targeted niche change, existing manufacturers are able to compete for new products and new markets in energetic materials and businesses can also enter into the market.
The Group is currently the world leader in the protective systems, where the nature supply and manufacture of expendable countermeasures, with a number of proprietary of the products and the requisite products.
We intend to maintain this position through our continued investment in production and qualication processes research and development, and world class manufacturing facilities.
provide significant barriers to new The competitive threats to our Munitions and Pyrotechnics businesses are generally entrants.
However, as threats evolve, lower, as the markets are fragmented and our competitors are generally companies with new businesses offering new solutions national market positions and limited product ranges.
Our Counter-IED businesses need may enter the market.
to continually develop next generation systems in order to address emerging threats, and this provides an opportunity for new competitors to emerge.
However, the detection systems produced by NIITEK in particular are extensively used in-theatre, and this provides a good platform from which to capture the future market.
Our core strategy is to grow our business by taking market share, and we are, therefore, strongly focused on our research and development activities to ensure we have next generation products available at the right time.
We also invest substantial funds to enhance our manufacturing capabilities, in order to maintain our leading position in our niche technologies and markets.
Management resource The Group Executive Committee reviews the strengths and weaknesses of the The Group requires competent management team at each business twice a year, and the Board undertakes an management to lead it through the next annual review of future requirements and succession planning as part of the strategic stage of its development.
markets and difficult times, we need A number of additional senior appointments have been made over the last year, to ensure that we retain and motivate including the recent appointment of a Group Human Resources Director, who will the employees we value most, and that oversee our future people strategy.
we respond quickly to apply additional resource in any areas where a need is identied.
Compliance and corruption risks The Group has a central legal and compliance function which assists and monitors all The Group operates in over sixty Group businesses, assisted by dedicated internal legal resource in the US.
The Groups countries worldwide, and is subject to internal audit activities also incorporate a review of legal risks.
the laws and regulations of each of these The Group has a Global Code of Business Principles, which stipulates the standard countries.
The Group must ensure that of acceptable business conduct required from all of our employees and third parties all of its businesses, its employees and acting on our behalf.
The Group has also adopted a Bribery Act Compliance Manual, third parties acting on its behalf comply incorporating all of our anti-bribery policies and procedures.
with their legal obligations, and do not A significant proportion of the Groups management have received training in relation to expose the Group to financial penalties or ethics and anti-corruption.
Financial risks Details of the financial risks to which the Group is potentially exposed are set out in the business review and note 24 of the financial statements.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
