UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our approach to risk management OUR APPROACH TO RISK UNDERPINS THE CONSTITUENT PARTS OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL.
When deciding future strategy, the Board considers the level of risk to be taken in alternative scenarios considered, and ensures that the strategic direction of the Group includes an appropriate and not undue level of risk in line with future expectations for the economic environment and the property cycle.
We also ensure that the risks involved are Risk management process Our small Head Office team provides clarity considered before approving every proposed The process of identifying and monitoring for each employee as to which member transaction and, if we proceed, that the risks, and their potential impact, occurs at of the Executive Committee they directly level of risk accepted aligns with the agreed a number of levels throughout the Group.
This relatively flat strategy and is appropriate both in relation In addition to considering risk in relation to management structure allows the Executive to that transaction and its impact on the strategy and transactions by the Investment Directors to have close involvement in Group as a whole.
Committee or the Board, a risk register is day-to-day operational matters and respond maintained by each of our business units as quickly to changing events so as to reduce We have no control over some of the well as the Group as a whole.
These registers the effect of any adverse impacts on the overriding external risks, such as the are the result of thought and input from risk profile.
economy, but spend time considering the senior executives throughout the Group as potential impact of such risks on our well as the Executive Directors.
A register Risk measurement and appetite business.
We recognise that we must tailor of Principal Risks and Uncertainties is also The risk register for the Group is our strategy to respond to the external maintained bringing together those factors underpinned by a series of key risk environment, addressing the threats and which are considered to have the potential indicators.
Each indicator has criteria capable exploiting the opportunities that arise.
to significantly impact British Lands of measurement, the result of which is At the same time we must monitor and performance.
This register is considered matched against a range to calibrate the control those internal risks to which we are and refined at meetings of the Executive indicator either green, amber or red so as exposed in pursuing our chosen strategy.
Committee and the Audit Committee at least to inform Directors when deciding how to twice yearly, and is reviewed by the Board categorise each risk in order of importance, The risks we face do not change significantly which has a particular focus on the strategic and to help highlight whether risks are from year to year.
However, the magnitude and economic risks.
The adequacy of risk increasing or decreasing.
Risks are scored and importance of the risks can and do mitigating strategies and controls are and ranked in accordance with a matrix change significantly, usually in line with considered at each review.
This helps based on the likelihood of occurrence and events as they occur.
For example, the define the risk profile of the Group and the the potential impact on the Group.
successful conclusion of lettings to Aon and implications of decisions taken.
Debenhams, for their new head offices at It is inherent in the nature of risk that risk The Leadenhall Building and Regents Place Consideration of our current risk brings reward and there are risks that respectively, and the agreement for lease to environment as well as our strategic priorities we will choose, with our expertise, to accept.
UBS of 5 Broadgate becoming unconditional, has resulted in a number of additional risks Taking risk is key to enhancing profits significantly reduced the risk relating to our now being classified as Principal Risks and the key is to take those risks that we are development exposure.
These include: Economic able to manage and are best placed to Uncertainty notably Eurozone, Income take, such as those relating to property Sustainability, Capital Structure Gearing, performance and to seek to minimise the Financing Strategy Execution and impact of any risks that are not under our Communication.
Further details of these day-to-day control.
There are many risks risks are given in the schedule of Principal that we consider and monitor, but we Risks and Uncertainties which follows.
naturally concentrate on those that we have identified as most important through the process described above.
Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 38 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION British Lands risk framework During the year, we have introduced a risk framework under which risks are classified as external or internal based on the extent of our control over them.
This framework reflects the different approaches required to manage different types of risk as well as recognising the extent to which external factors affect our performance.
External environment Factors which British Land cannot External and economic risk areas Principal risks and uncertainties control and must set its strategy Global and UK-wide factors affecting Economic uncertainty notably Eurozone.
to exploit or respond to all industries and consumers.
Occupier demand and tenant default.
Availability and cost of finance.
UK commercial real estate risk areas External factors specifically affecting UK commercial real estate.
The impact of the external and economic risk areas on UK commercial real estate.
Internal risk areas Factors which British Land Strategic factors Principal risks and uncertainties can control Factors which can be controlled to Investment strategy.
determine our risk profile: to be set in Development.
the context of evaluation of the external Income sustainability.
Corporate and compliance Principal risks and uncertainties Factors which must be controlled Communication.
to maintain sound operation of People.
the Company and fulfil legal and regulatory obligations.
Corporate responsibility risks see page 43.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 39 UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued External risks Change Risks and impacts from last year Key mitigants Economic uncertainty notably Eurozone Continued global economic uncertainty Consideration of external economic and property factors, including leading NEW presents risks to financing and property indicators, in determining strategy.
markets as well as the businesses of our Limited exposure to Eurozone property holdings at less than 3% of gross occupiers.
Notably, failure of one or more assets.
members of the Eurozone could cause serious dislocation to the property and finance markets and could directly impact valuations and performance of British Lands limited property holdings in mainland Europe as well as treasury liquidity.
Investor demand Reduction in investor demand for UK real Consideration of external economic and property factors, including leading estate may result in falls in asset valuations indicators, in determining strategy.
and could arise from variations in: Focus on prime portfolio in sectors deemed to have resilient attributes.
health of the UK economy: Focus on long upward-only lease profiles with strong occupier covenants.
attractiveness of investment in the UK: availability of finance: and See Our markets relative attractiveness of other asset classes.
P2021 Occupier demand and tenant default Underlying income, rental growth and Consideration of external economic and property factors, including leading capital performance could be adversely indicators, in determining strategy.
affected by weakening occupier demand Focus on prime portfolio in sectors deemed to have resilient attributes.
resulting from variations in the health of the Focus on long upward only lease profiles with strong occupier covenants.
UK economy and corresponding weakening Monitoring of sector supply and demand for space.
of consumer confidence, business activity Monitoring of footfall and turnover at retail schemes.
Occupier failures may adversely impact underlying income and capital performance.
Proactive asset management approach to maintain strong occupier line-up.
Changing consumer and business practices Key occupier account programme to maintain strong occupier relationships.
e. g. internet shopping, flexible working Development of future-proofing initiatives to maintain our retail assets practices and demand for energy efficient ranking in the retail hierarchy.
buildings, new technologies and alternative Sustainability Briefs for Developments, Acquisition and Management.
locations may result in earlier than anticipated obsolescence of our buildings if See Our markets evolving occupier requirements are not met.
P2021 Availability and cost of finance Reduced availability of Real Estate financing Consideration of external economic and property factors, including leading may adversely impact British Lands ability indicators, in determining strategy.
to refinance facilities and result in weaker Monitoring and proactive management of refinancing requirement.
investor demand for Real Estate.
Diverse range of sources of financing.
Increasing finance costs would reduce Spread of facility expiries maintained.
Continuing focus on capital market and bank relationship management.
Interest rate hedging policy determined to minimise exposure to short-term rate fluctuations while maintaining long-term flexibility.
See Financial review P5864 Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 40 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION External risks continued Change Risks and impacts from last year Key mitigants Catastrophic business event An external event such as a civil emergency, Asset risk assessments e. g. security, flood, environmental, health and safety.
including a large-scale terrorist attack, or Regular security threat information service.
environmental disaster could severely disrupt Physical security measures at properties and development sites.
global markets including property and finance Asset emergency procedures reviewed and scenario tested.
and cause significant damage and disruption Head office business continuity plan in place and regularly tested.
to British Lands portfolio and operations.
Internal strategic risks Change Risks and impacts from last year Key mitigants Investment strategy Significant underperformance could result Annual determination of investment strategy based on consideration of position from inappropriate determination of property of current portfolio and outlook for macro-economic and property fundamentals.
investment strategy, including consideration Ongoing review of validity of chosen strategy and performance against strategic of the following factors: priorities and actions.
sector selection and weighting: Benchmarking of portfolio composition.
timing of investment and divestment Use of asset and portfolio model.
decisions: Standardised investment appraisal methodology and formalised Investment exposure to developments: Committee review of proposed investment decisions.
sector, asset, tenant, region concentration: and See Portfolio review engagement with co-investment partners.
P4455 Development Development risks could adversely Detailed analysis and appraisal of all developments including risks, sensitivity impact underlying income and capital and scenarios.
performance including: Investment Committee approval prior to each development commitment.
development letting exposure: Ongoing monitoring of development progress against budget and schedule.
construction timing and costs: and Strategic use of pre-lets to fide-risk the development letting profile.
Fixing of development cost commitments early in the project timeline.
Assessment of key contractors prior to appointment, including a financial covenant review.
Building Confidence sustainability accreditation for supply chain.
See Building our development pipeline Maintenance of strong relationships with key suppliers.
P1011, 1415 Income sustainability Sustainability of income streams required to be Comprehensive profit and cash flow forecasting undertaken incorporating NEW considered in: scenario analysis reflecting prospective transactions.
execution of investment strategy and capital Reinvestment opportunities considered alongside asset sales as required recycling, notably timing of reinvestment of by investment strategy.
sale proceeds: Focus on long lease structures with upward only rent reviews.
nature and structure of leasing activity: and Managed exposure to fixed, minimum and index-linked rental uplifts.
nature and timing of asset management and Development funding requirements balanced with sustainable income streams development activity.
Inappropriate decision-making and execution Focus on income as well as capital impact in considering asset management in respect of the above may result in initiatives.
disruptions to underlying profit growth outside Proactive asset management to mitigate occurrence and impact of occupier the scope of strategic plans.
failures and lease breaks and expiries.
See Retail and Offices P4951, 5254 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 41 UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Internal strategic risks continued Change Risks and impacts from last year Key mitigants Capital structure gearing An inappropriate gearing level may result Determination of capital structure and gearing level considered over the NEW in Net Asset Value underperformance.
short and long term in annual determination of strategy and reviewed on an ongoing basis.
An increase in the gearing level increases the risk of a breach of covenants on borrowing All financial forecasting, including scenario analysis of prospective transactions, facilities and may increase finance costs.
incorporates consideration of impact on gearing and covenant headroom.
Ongoing monitoring of covenant headroom and gearing with reference to cyclical valuation movements and committed expenditure.
See Financial policies and principles P6567 Financing strategy execution Failure to manage the refinancing requirement Monitoring and proactive management of refinancing requirement.
NEW may result in a shortage of funds to sustain the Diverse range of sources of financing.
operations of the business or repay facilities as Spread of facility expiries maintained.
See Financial policies and principles P6567 Corporate and compliance risks Change Risks and impacts from last year Key mitigants Communication Failure to adequately communicate the Clear articulation and reiteration of strategic priorities in corporate NEW Companys strategy and explain performance communications including the Annual Report.
in respect of this may result in an increased Defined communication and investor relations programme.
disconnect between investor perceptions of Regular press releases and engagement with investors and analysts.
Investor feedback survey undertaken by independent advisors.
People Failure to recruit, develop and retain staff and Succession planning regularly evaluated.
Directors with the right skills and experience Director and employee remuneration and incentives aligned with appropriate may result in significant underperformance.
peer group and regularly benchmarked.
Regular performance appraisal process with a focus on continuous personal development.
Biennial employee survey and programme of employee events to build a culture aligned with British Lands values.
See Corporate governance P7276 Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 42 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION Corporate responsibility risks The Group has a particular concern for corporate responsibility and is proud of its environmental credentials.
Accordingly we also particularly monitor related risks and have summarised them in a separate table that follows.
These are not included as Principal Risks and Uncertainties because they are considered to be well managed and so are unlikely to result in a significant impact on the Groups performance.
In addition, we are proactive in monitoring emerging requirements to ensure that we have time to react to changes such as those arising from the Energy Act 2011.
Change Risks and impacts from last year Key mitigants Managing buildings efficiently and developing sustainable buildings Failure to future-proof our buildings against Flood assessment and defence where required.
NEW extreme weather occurrences or legislation Sustainability Briefs for Developments, Acquisition and Management.
may result in: Energy reduction strategy.
reduced investor and occupier interest Energy Performance Certificate EPC portfolio review.
in our buildings: Government engagement and review on future legislation.
disruption for our occupiers: and ISO 14001 for developments.
additional costs for British Land and its occupiers to adapt buildings or meet new legislative requirements.
Supporting communities Poor long-term engagement with Community Charter.
communities where we own or plan Charity funding.
to develop assets may: Ongoing local engagement by British Land and its site management teams.
impede our ability to obtain planning permission for new developments: and impact the financial performance of our assets.
See Our corporate responsibility review P5657 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 43
