RISK MANAGEMENT Risk is an inherent part of running a business and, whilst the Board aims to maximise returns, it needs to understand and manage the associated risks.
Risk organisation structure Executive Committee Risk Committee Prepares the Groups risk register Responsible for internal non-financial controls Reviews the operation of key controls Monitors and reviews the Groups risk register Board Overall responsibility for risk management Senior Management Team Audit Committee and internal Provide input to Committee Responsible for internal financial controls controls review processes Monitors and reviews the external audit process on behalf of the Board Risk is an inherent part of running a business and, whilst the procedures to be considered and recognises that risk cannot Board aims to maximise returns, it needs to understand and be totally eliminated at an acceptable cost.
It also recognises manage the associated risks.
Whilst overall responsibility for this that there are some risks that, with its experience and after process rests with the Board it has delegated responsibility for due consideration, the Board will be prepared to accept.
assurance concerning the risk management process to the Audit The register, its method of preparation and the operation of the Committee and the Risk Committee, the latter having been key controls in the Groups system of internal control, is reviewed established at the end of 2011.
Executive management is throughout the year by the Risk Committee, which periodically responsible for designing, implementing and maintaining the receives presentations from senior management to gain a more necessary systems of internal control.
in-depth understanding of the control environment in certain areas The Group operates principally from one central London office of the business.
The register was updated between December with a relatively flat management structure.
This enables members 2012 and February 2013 and includes 43 risks across the of the Executive Committee to be closely involved in day-to-day following categories: strategic risks, corporate risks, property matters and therefore able to quickly identify and respond to risks.
A key element in the system of internal controls is the Groups risk The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces in 2013, register which is reviewed formally by the Board once a year.
The together with the controls and mitigating factors, are set out on the register is prepared by the members of the Executive Committee following pages.
which, having identified the risks, collectively assesses the severity of each risk, the likelihood of it occurring and the strength of the controls in place.
This approach allows the effect of any mitigating 30 Strategy Major risks Likelihood High 3 6 5 4 9 1 2 7 8 Key to risk table below Low High Risk increase Signicance Risk slight increase Strategic Risk unchanged Property Operational } Risk slight decrease Corporate Financial Risk decrease Strategic risks That the Groups strategy does not create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors expectations.
Risk effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 1 Inconsistent strategy The Groups strategy is inconsistent The Group carries out a five-year strategic The last annual strategic review was carried out with the state of the market in which review each year and also prepares an by the Board in June 2012.
This considered the it operates.
annual budget and three rolling forecasts sensitivity of six key measures to changes in which cover the next two years.
In the course underlying assumptions including interest rates 2 Inconsistent development programme of preparing these documents the Board and borrowing margins, timing of projects, level The Groups development programme is not considers the effect on the Groups KPIs and of capital expenditure and capital recycling.
consistent with the economic cycle.
key ratios caused by changing the main The three rolling forecasts prepared during The Group currently benefits from a strong underlying assumptions to reflect different the year focus on the same key measures central London market which could be economic scenarios.
but consider the effect of varying different adversely affected by a number of high level The Groups plans can then be set so assumptions to reflect changing economic economic factors.
This would reduce the as to best realise its long-term strategic and market conditions.
value of the Groups portfolio.
goals given the expected economic and The timing of the Groups development KPIs affected: market conditions.
This flexibility arises programme and the strategies for individual Total return from the policy of maintaining income properties reflect the outcome of Total property return from properties for as long as possible these considerations.
The Board sees the level of this risk as At the year end the Groups interest cover broadly unchanged from last year.
Over 50% of the Groups portfolio has been ratio was above 350%, the REIT ratios were identified for future redevelopment.
This comfortably met and its loan-to-value ratio enables the Board to delay marginal projects was 30%.
until market conditions are favourable.
The risk remains significant and therefore in forming its plans the Board pays particular attention to maintaining sufficient headroom in all the Groups key ratios, financial covenants and interest cover.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2012 31 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 1 Operational risks That the Group suffers either a loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not operating correctly.
Risk effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 3 Reduced development returns The Groups development projects do not Standardised appraisals including The Group is advised by top planning produce the anticipated financial return due contingencies are prepared for all consultants and has considerable in-house to one or more of the following factors: investments and sensitivity analysis is planning expertise.
Delays in the planning process.
undertaken to ensure that an adequate Executive Directors represent the Group Delays due to contractors return is made in all circumstances on a number of local bodies which ensures sub-contractors defaulting.
that it remains aware of local issues.
The scale of the Groups development The procurement process used by the Group Adverse letting conditions.
programme is managed to reflect anticipated includes the use of highly regarded firms of market conditions.
KPIs affected: quantity surveyors and is designed to minimise Total return Regular cost reports are produced for the uncertainty regarding costs.
Total property return Executive Committee and the Board that Development costs are benchmarked to ensure monitor progress of actual expenditure Taken as a whole the Board considers this that the Group obtains competitive pricing.
This allows potential adverse risk to be at the same level as last year.
variances to be identified and addressed at The Groups style of accommodation remains an early stage.
in demand as evidenced by the 49 lettings achieved in 2012, which totalled 340,300 sq ft. Post completion reviews are carried out The Group has secured significant pre-lets of for all major developments to ensure that the space in its current development improvements to the Groups procedures programme which significantly fide-risks are identified and implemented.
4 Tenant default The Group suffers a loss of rental income All prospective tenants are considered by the The Group has a diversified tenant base.
and increased vacant property costs due to Groups credit committee and security is The credit committee meets each week and tenants vacating or becoming bankrupt.
The taken where appropriate either in the form of considered 98 potential tenants during the year.
continuing lack of growth in the UK economy parent company guarantees or rent deposits.
could lead to an increase in business failure.
In total the Group holds rental deposits The Groups property managers maintain amounting to 10.8m.
KPIs affected: regular contact with tenants and work closely Tenant receipts with any that are facing financial difficulties.
On average during the year, the Group has Void management collected 97% of the rents due within 14 days The Groups credit committee regularly Total return of the due date.
reviews a list of slow payers and considers Total property return if significant } what actions should be taken.
Interest cover ratio The Board considers this risk to have increased over the past year due to the effect that the prolonged austerity measures are having on businesses.
5 Reputational damage The Groups cost base is increased or its The Groups Risk Committee reports to the A Health and Safety report is presented at reputation damaged through a breach of any Board concerning regulatory risk.
all Executive Committee and main Board of the legislation that forms the regulatory meetings.
The Group employs a health and safety framework within which the Group operates.
The Group pays considerable attention This risk would most directly impact on the to sustainability issues and produces A sustainability committee chaired by Paul Groups total shareholder return one of its a sustainability report annually.
Williams and advised by external consultants key metrics.
Indirectly it could impact on a addresses risk in this area.
A sustainability number of the formal KPIs.
manager was recruited in January 2013.
The Board considers the risk to have The Companys policies including those on increased over the year due to increased the Bribery Act, Health and Safety, Equal legislation covering more areas of the Opportunities, Harassment and Groups business and an increased ability of Whistleblowing are available to all staff on the pressure groups to gain publicity for any Company intranet.
All new members of staff benefit from an induction programme.
1 Incorporates the corporate and property risks from the Groups risk register 32 Strategy Operational risks continued 6 Shortage of key staff The Group is unable to successfully The remuneration packages of all employees The Group recruited 11 new members of implement its strategy due to inadequate are benchmarked regularly.
The key appointment of succession planning or a failure to recruit and a sustainability manager was made in Six-monthly appraisals identify training retain key staff with appropriate skills.
January 2013. requirements which are fulfilled over the next No KPIs affected.
Staff turnover during 2012 was low at 7% 9% including retirees.
The risk is seen as unchanged over the year.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Groups succession planning for both The Executive Committee considers non-Board executive and non-executive Directors.
Financial risks That the Group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations or finance the business appropriately.
Risk effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 7 Breach of financial covenants A substantial decline in property values The Groups secured borrowings contain The Group tests its compliance with financial or a material loss of rental income could financial covenants based on specic covenants regularly and operated comfortably result in a breach of the Groups financial security and not corporate ratios such within these limits throughout 2012.
This may accelerate the as overall NAV gearing.
Treasury control values could decline by around 40% at the repayment of the Groups borrowings schedules are updated weekly whilst balance sheet date before there would be or result in their cancellation.
the rolling forecasts enable any potential a breach of financial covenants.
problems to be identied at an early stage KPIs affected: Compliance with the financial covenants and corrective action to be taken.
Total return property values is one of the matters monitored as part The Group has considerable headroom Total property return property values of the sensitivity analysis undertaken when under its financial covenants, operates Interest cover ratio rental income preparing the annual strategic review and at a modest level of gearing and has a the rolling forecasts.
The Board considers this risk to be slightly substantial amount of uncharged property lower this year as it has considerable At 31 December 2012 the Group owned that could be secured if necessary.
headroom within its covenants and expects 624m of uncharged properties.
the business cycle to be less volatile.
8 Sub-optimal financing structure The Groups cost of borrowing is increased The Groups five-year strategic review The Groups financing comes increasingly from due to an inability to raise finance from its and rolling forecasts enable financing a number of different sources providers and preferred sources.
requirements to be identified at an early has a varied maturity profile.
This allows alternative sources of the Groups borrowings provided by bank loans KPI affected: finance to be evaluated and the preferred decreased from 59% at 31 December 2011 to Interest cover ratio one to be identified.
To a degree, the funds 50% at the year end.
The Board considers this risk to have can then be raised when market conditions The refinancing of the facilities maturing in 2013 decreased over the past 12 months as the are favourable.
that was started in 2011 was completed in Group has increased the diversity of its August 2012.
The focus in 2011 was to renew funding sources and there have been or refinance revolving bank facilities.
Then in improvements in the health of the August 2012, the remaining 150m bank loan banking sector.
expiring in 2013 was prepaid and cancelled and a new 83m loan was signed with Cornerstone Mass Mutual for a term of 12 years at a fixed rate of 3.99%.
As at 31 December 2012, the weighted average duration of the Groups debt was 6.1 years.
At the year end the Group had 333m of unutilised, available, committed bank facilities.
9 Higher interest rates Financing costs are higher due to increases The Group uses interest rate derivatives to During the year the Group terminated three in interest rates.
top up the amount of fixed rate debt to a interest rate swaps which were at historic rates level commensurate with the perceived risk and initiated new instruments which have KPI affected: to the Group.
locked in the lower rates that were available Interest cover ratio at that time.
The Board sees this risk as unchanged 92% of borrowings were fixed or hedged at the over the year.
Spread overleaf: 1 Olivers Yard EC2 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2012 33 EFFECTIVE
