Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 48 0VS QFPQMF i PG PVS FNQMPZFFT QBSUJDJQBUF JO PVS PQUJPOBM 4IBSF ODFOUJWF 1MBOw Employees appraisal, remuneration, development Remuneration plays an important role in retaining and communication through the year and motivating our people.
Annual bonuses reward all employees for achieving and exceeding corporate and personal objectives.
A number of Appraisal process senior managers also participate in our three year Month Actions long-term incentive plans, where the vesting of March Pre-performance review meeting held between Chief awards is based on the fundamental measures Executive, Company Secretary and Line Managers.
These are: Year-end performance review held between growth in absolute Net Asset Value per share: Line Managers and employees.
Employees and Line Managers discuss and set relative Total Shareholder Return: and personal objectives and targets for the relative Total Property Return.
Review of development needs and proposed training.
In addition, all employees have the opportunity to join our two for one Share Incentive Plan with September Six monthly performance review held between over 78% of our employees participating.
Line Managers and employees of: progress against personal objective and targets: Training and development and training undertaken.
Month Actions March April Review of development needs, training undertaken in the previous year and proposed At the start of each year, employees agree with training for the coming year.
their Line Managers their personal objectives, Sustainability update seminar for the investment designed to help the Company meet its strategic management, property management and goals.
Through a formal six monthly appraisal development teams to highlight changes process, Line Managers meet with employees in the Groups sustainability objectives.
to review their progress against these objectives, September Review of training undertaken by the outcome of which, at the year end, helps form individuals with Line Managers.
the basis for reward under the personal objectives Review of training undertaken by all element of the Groups bonus plan.
Remuneration We encourage our people to develop their careers Month Actions with us, and provide both funding and study leave to enable them to access professional development January Market review and benchmarking of February employee salaries.
opportunities, including: March Executive Committee review salary levels vs. formal training for professional qualications: market review, performance against personal objectives and targets, proposed discretionary external degrees: and bonuses and proposed LTIP awards.
Remuneration Committee review of remuneration levels proposed for all employees and approve We formally consider the training needs of all Senior Manager and Executive Director salary employees every six months.
levels, discretionary bonuses and LTIP awards.
During the year 47,818 was invested in formal staff April Formal feedback to employees of salary training providing 1,368 hours of training.
Training reviews and discretionary bonuses.
programmes included business related topics, May Payment of corporate bonuses, where targets met.
sustainability actions, personal skills and facilities June LTIP awards vest where targets met.
Annual review Financials Governance 49 IPVST training undertaken averaging 2.5 days per employee Total number of training hours Ongoing communication Regular and effective communication lies at the 700 heart of our employee engagement strategy.
600 Our approach is based on: 500 400 an open door policy: 300 weekly meetings held across and within 200 departments: 100 weekly meetings with non-ofce based employees 0 2010 2011 2012 to ensure their involvement and to encourage the sharing of best practice: Corporate Responsibility, Finance Governance and HR weekly presentations from key people from Environmental Health & Safety the Finance, Asset, Investment and Development Estates Management IT management teams to the Executive Committee.
Areas covered include credit control, marketing to Employee engagement and communication tenants, investment transactions and opportunities, Month Actions and development appraisals as well as updates on February Following input from employees, the how the relevant risks are being managed.
From Environmental Policy Committee nalise the time to time, senior managers are also asked to Groups corporate sustainability objectives present to the Board and Audit Committee on a and targets for the forthcoming year and variety of topics: communicate to all employees.
Employees are informed of the year-end employees at all levels being involved in developing performance review process and the focus of our operating policies: and objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
quarterly presentations to all our people from the March Quarterly Review formal presentation to all Executive Directors on our results and progress employees by the Chief Executive followed and plans for the coming year, together with by a question and answer session.
presentations from senior managers on specic April Feedback from performance review from projects.
These presentations ensure that our Line Managers to Executive Committee and people are fully engaged in our plans and activities, proposed actions.
and also act as a forum for the Executive Directors May Achievement of the Groups sustainability to answer any questions.
In the year ended objectives and targets for the previous year is communicated to all employees.
31 March 2012, two of our presentations were held off-site overlooking our development sites at Quarterly Review formal presentation to all Hanover Square, W1 and 100 Bishopsgate, EC1.
employees on the Groups results by the Executive Directors followed by a question and answer session.
September Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed by a question and answer session.
October Feedback from the half year performance review process from Line Managers to Executive Committee and review of action plan.
November Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed by a question and answer session.
66 148 599 191 256 42 110 313 466 187 150 62 65 113 499 283 182 226 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2012 50 3JTL NBOBHFNFOU ThF TVDDFTTGVM NBOBHFNFOU PG SJTL JT FTTFOUJBM UP FOBCMF UIF SPVQ UP EFMJWFS PO JUT TUSBUFHJD QSJPSJUJFT 8IJMTU UIF VMUJNBUF SFTQPOTJCJMJUZ GPS SJTL NBOBHFNFOU SFTUT XJUI UIF #PBSE UIF GPVOEBUJPO PG FffFDUJWF EBZ UP EBZ NBOBHFNFOU PG SJTL JT JO UIF XBZ XF EP CVTJOFTT BOE UIF DVMUVSF PG PVS UFBN 0VS flBU PSHBOJTBUJPOBM TUSVDUVSF XJUI DMPTF JOWPMWFNFOU PG TFOJPS NBOBHFNFOU JO BMM TJHOJfiDBOU EFDJTJPOT DPNCJOFE XJUI PVS DBVUJPVT BOE BOBMZUJDBM BQQSPBDI JT EFTJHOFE UP BMJHO UIF SPVQ T JOUFSFTUT XJUI UIPTF PG TIBSFIPMEFST Board oversight Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Operational Committees ational Commi Executive Committee weekly Development management Investment management Environmental policy Development management weekly weekly quarterly review quarterly Financial management Asset management Sustainability weekly Asset management review weekly quarterly quarterly Policies for highlighting and contr icies for highlighting and controlling risk olling r Investment return Regular review Development appraisal benchmarks of business plans parameters Debt leverage, covenant Occupancy Leasing objectives and tenant compliance and liquidity limits targets covenant testing Procedures and internal controls High level risk Extensive documentation to Dened performance indicators assessment framework support decisions with sensitivity analysis Strict approval Formal policies and procedures External review of requirements consistently applied key controls People and culture Focused market expertise Integrity in business conduct Conservative attitude to capital deployment Open communication Interests aligned with shareholders Analytical rigour Transparent disclosure Qualied and experienced with stakeholders personnel with specic roles Business risk Annual review Financials Governance 51 ThF SPVQ WJFXT FffFDUJWF SJTL NBOBHFNFOU BT JOUFHSBM UP UIF EFMJWFSZ PG TVQFSJPS SFUVSOT UP TIBSFIPMEFST 1SJODJQBM SJTLT BOE VODFSUBJOUJFT GBDJOH UIF CVTJOFTT BOE UIF QSPDFTTFT UISPVHI XIJDI UIF $PNQBOZ BJNT UP NBOBHF UIPTF SJTLT BSF Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary from last year Market risk Central London real estate Research into the economy and the investment and The central London real estate market market underperforms other occupational markets is evaluated as part of the Groups has considerably outperformed the UK property sectors leading to annual strategy process covering the key areas of wider UK Market during the year ended poor relative financial results investment, development and asset management and 31 March 2012, demonstrated by IPDs updated regularly throughout the year.
central London TPR exceeding IPDs universe by 5.8 percentage points and the outlook continues to be favourable.
Our market pages 21 to 23 Economic recovery falters Regular economic updates are received and scenario Over the last 12 months the UK has resulting in worse than planning for different economic cycles.
again witnessed the negative impact on expected performance of business sentiment from the continued 50% of income from committed developments secured.
the business given decline process of global financial deleveraging, in economic output the Eurozone debt crisis and political instability in many parts of the world, including the Arab states.
The resulting uncertainty has seen GDP growth expectations decline.
Our market pages 21 to 23 Investment management Not sufciently capitalising The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is to The Group has continued to invest and on market investment constantly research each of the sub-markets within recycle capital against a backdrop of opportunities through central London seeking the right balance of investment moderate capital value growth in central difficulty in sourcing and development opportunities suitable for current and London and a surfeit of buyers to sellers investment opportunities anticipated market conditions.
at attractive prices, poor Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions During the year acquisitions totalling investment decisions and prior to purchase to ensure appropriate returns.
336.0 million with low average capital mis-timed recycling of capital value of 464 per sq ft were made Business plans are produced on an individual asset together with disposals of 255.8 million at basis to ensure the appropriate churn of those buildings an average capital value of 534 per sq ft. with limited relative potential performance.
Regular review of the prospective performance of Our market pages 21 to 23 individual assets and their business plans with Case studies pages 10 and 11, pages Joint Venture partners.
16 and 17 Asset management Failure to maximise The Groups in-house asset management and leasing The Group continues to maintain a low income from investment teams proactively manage tenants to ensure changing void rate which was 3.3% at 31 March properties through poor needs are met with a focus on retaining income in light 2012.
Tenant delinquencies were less management of voids, of vacant possession requirements for refurbishments than 1% of the rent roll for the year to mis-pricing, low tenant and developments.
31 March 2012. retention, sub-optimal rent The Group continues to actively manage The Group has a diverse tenant base with its ten largest reviews, tenant failures and the portfolio to maximise occupancy and tenants representing around 30% of rent roll.
inappropriate refurbishments drive rental growth.
Asset management pages 32 and 33 Case studies pages 10 and 11, pages 14 and 15
