E E T T I M T H I E A D E U M M A T N M L O T E A N O I R R C S R M E I O S E T M N M K N V I M I A E F O T N R R C U D U C E A T L C C S N U O O K E E C R C S N I X D V R E T N S E M R I Strategic review Business and financial review Risk management Governance Financial statements Other information Risk management Responding to changing market environments Charenton-le-Ponts Bercy 2 is one of the most important shopping destinations in the eastern suburbs of Paris Risk management and principal Our risk management process uncertainties Responsibility for risk The management of risk is an integral management rests ultimately component of our operating, financial and with the Board.
The policies for risk the foundations are built on management are designed to reduce the the mindset of our people, chances of financial loss, protect our their integrity and the culture reputation and optimise performance when we foster at Hammerson.
We identify, control and Short reporting lines and communicate risk management throughout a flat management structure BOARD the organisation using a risk management mean that the senior team OVERSIGHT framework which is regularly reviewed by our is included in all key decision Senior Management team.
making and involved in risk identification and mitigation.
The five principal areas of risk in that framework, together with the related principal uncertainties currently facing the Group, are shown in the table opposite.
Economics continues to be the dominant feature of the risk landscape.
Also noted in the table are more specific risks featured in the framework and the steps we take to mitigate them.
Finally, we have included references to the pages in this Annual Report where the risks, or the elements of the business affected by them, are discussed further.
36 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 S A M O E T L R N L E A I U I S S U M O N A U I C B S T E V A C O E A I E G R H M E T R E E U M T B X D I M K T E T E E T T U C E N O I E P R T E P M U B D E O O N A A M R R S E D G I O C I L C O P T I D U A Strategic review Business and financial review Risk management Governance Financial statements Other information risk area change and executive PrinciPal further from resPonsibility uncertainties risk imPact mitigation commentary 2011 Business strategy Property and financial markets Implementation of a We commission and Chairmans statement GEC Although financial markets are strategy inconsistent evaluate research page 4 relatively stable at present, with the market into the economy Chief Executives uncertainty in the eurozone environment, risking and investment report page 6 and the austerity measures poor investment and occupational being implemented by western decisions and markets and use Market background governments continue to make inadequate returns.
this to prepare an page 8 lenders cautious, and are likely to annual Business Plan Shopping centre, Business review constrain economic growth.
The and regular financial retail parks or pages 20 to 31 risk of a full or partial break-up forecasts.
premium designer of the euro-community seems to Financial review outlet markets in Hammersons have receded, but remains a risk pages 40 to 49 UK or France portfolio is diversified and if realised would be likely to underperform relative geographically and lead to a prolonged global recession.
to other sectors or by sub-sector and its We are exposed to the specifics markets, eroding allocation, including of the French economy through shareholder value.
exposure to the our shopping centre investments eurozone, is reviewed in France.
We have stress-tested our business We focus on prime model against a severe downside shopping centres in economic scenario.
We confirmed the best locations, that the Group is robust, reflecting convenient retail low gearing, long-term secure parks and premium income streams from our leases, the designer outlets, all currency hedging of the value of with experienced our French portfolio, a good spread management.
of debt maturities and the flexibility to phase or halt our development We monitor closely programme.
developments in multi-channel retailing and introduce innovative new concepts to our portfolio when appropriate.
Property and Property valuations Investment Acquisitions Market background corporate investment Conditions prevailing in the general decisions result in are thoroughly page 8 GEC economic environment and the inadequate returns evaluated, supported Business review property investment market affect or the adoption of by detailed review, pages 20 to 31 the value of Hammersons property unforeseen liabilities.
Accordingly, the Groups due diligence Opportunities to net asset value may rise or fall and detailed risk divest of properties due to external factors beyond assessment prior to are missed, or managements control.
limited by market financial markets have stabilised constraints, reducing The performance of since the peak of the financial crisis, potential returns.
individual properties and investors have become more is benchmarked active in the real estate investment against target market, resulting in a rise in values returns.
for prime property over the last few years.
Properties are held in a ready for sale However, instability in the eurozone state.
could generate significant volatility in financial markets in the short to medium terms.
The Groups property portfolio is of high quality, geographically diversified and let to a large number of tenants.
These factors should help mitigate negative impacts which may arise from changes in the financial and property markets.
Tenant default Financial loss arises We regularly monitor Security and quality of Some tenants continue to face through tenant the credit status of income page 46 challenging operating conditions, default.
tenants and adopt a Tenant covenant increasing the risk that they may flexible approach to strength and collection be unable to pay their rents or tenant requests for rates page 47 may enter into administration.
The changes to payment Groups geographical diversity and its terms.
large number of tenants mean the Arrears are reported impact of individual tenant default monthly and we for Hammerson is low.
Furthermore, report six monthly on our occupational leases are generally Group-wide tenant long-term contracts, making the exposures.
HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 37 Strategic review Business and financial review Risk management Governance Financial statements Other information risk area change and executive PrinciPal further from resPonsibility uncertainties risk imPact mitigation commentary 2011 Property Development and letting Over-exposure to The Groups exposure Creating high-quality development In the current economic developments within to developments properties page 20 GEC environment development is a short timeframe and the phasing of inherently more risky.
We have a increases exposure to projects is considered substantial pipeline but will progress market risk and puts as part of our annual developments only when the pressure on financing Business Plan and relevant markets are sufficiently and cashflow.
reviewed throughout robust, when we have the right the year.
Poor control of level of interest from occupiers and the development We monitor on the basis that sound financial programme and and report on analysis demonstrates good returns.
failure to address development Potential occupiers remain cautious investment and projects monthly.
about committing to lease space.
occupational market Detailed analysis, We currently have only one major risks results in including market development underway, Les inadequate returns.
research, is Terrasses du Port in Marseille, for Poor management undertaken prior to which 83% of the income has and inadequate the approval of each been contracted or is in solicitors resourcing leads to development project.
We will progress significant failed projects.
developments only when substantial Teams are pre-lets are secured.
assembled for each development under a project owner.
A programme of post completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes are identified.
Treasury, tax Property valuations Breach of borrowing We set guidelines for Financial review and regulatory The property portfolio is the most covenants, triggering financial ratios which page 44 CFO significant component of the default and or are monitored Notes 21 and 22 value of the Hammerson Group.
A repayment of regularly by the to the accounts worsening of the economic situation facilities or bonds.
pages 111 to 119 may put downward pressure on Our annual Business property values, which would Plan includes stress increase gearing and could ultimately tests considering result in the breach of borrowing the impact of covenants.
a significant The high quality and diversification deterioration in the of our portfolio should help to markets in which protect values from the negative we operate.
impacts which may arise from changes in the financial and property markets.
Gearing stood at 53% at 31 December 2012, significantly lower than the Groups most stringent borrowing covenant that gearing should not exceed 150%.
We estimate that values could fall by 44% from their December 2012 levels before covenants would be endangered.
Liquidity risk Poor planning and The Board approves Companies with short-term or external factors, future investment financing requirements may continue including failures in requirements and to find it difficult to secure sufficient the banking system, sufficient facilities funding, in particular from banks, lead to a liquidity are put in place at costs comparable with their squeeze preventing with an appropriate existing facilities.
Our recent funding the refinancing of maturity profile.
strategy has therefore addressed maturing debt or We monitor the near-term maturities early.
We will leading to insufficient maturity profile also consider accessing the sterling, liquidity to progress of debt and take euro and private placement bond the development an opportunistic markets if appropriate.
approach to issue in September of a 500 million refinancing.
unsecured bond due 2019 and the signing of a 175 million syndicated Credit ratings are five-year revolving credit facility in set for lending December 2012 to refinance that counterparties and maturing in April 2013, the nearest monitored.
We use debt maturity is 389 million diverse sources of in 2015. funding.
38 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Business and financial review Risk management Governance Financial statements Other information risk area change and executive PrinciPal further from resPonsibility uncertainties risk imPact mitigation commentary 2011 Treasury, tax Interest rate and exchange risk Adverse currency Fixed rate borrowings and regulatory Although the medium-term outlook or interest rate are used where CFO for interest rates is that they will movements result in appropriate and continued remain low, the interest charged on financial losses.
foreign currency borrowings is a significant cost for denominated assets the Group.
are financed by borrowings in the To manage the risk of changes in same currency.
interest rates, we set guidelines for our exposure to fixed and floating interest rates, using interest rate and currency swaps as appropriate.
At 31 December 2012, 80% of the Groups gross debt was at fixed rates of interest.
The Group is exposed to movements in the sterling euro exchange rate through its investment in France.
Exchange risk is managed principally by matching foreign currency assets with foreign currency borrowings or derivatives.
At the end of 2012, 80% of the value of the Groups French portfolio was hedged in this way.
Tax and regulatory Loss of tax exempt Speculation and Governments are seeking to reduce status due to change comment relating fiscal deficits and regulators are in legislation.
to changes in tax examining mechanisms which regimes in the UK EU UK regulation would make financial markets more and Europe acts as a brake resilient.
Increased taxation may is monitored.
on growth and be a risk for the broader business administrative burden Developments sector, but an asset-based industry for the real estate in regulation are such as real estate which currently sector.
monitored and benefits from tax-efficient regimes governments throughout Europe could become a and regulators specific target.
lobbied through The real estate sector is sometimes representation by UK perceived by regulators to be part of and European real the financial services sector rather estate trade bodies.
than as an operating business and the industry could be adversely affected by misdirected regulation designed to stabilise financial markets.
Business organisation For Hammerson, there are currently Inappropriate A Human Resources Our people and human resources no significant uncertainties related management plan features as page 18 GEC to this risk.
structure or part of the annual Governance resourcing levels for Business Plan.
pages 50 to 61 achieving business The Nomination objectives.
Remuneration Report Committee approves pages 62 to 77 Failure to recruit and succession plans for retain key executives senior roles.
and staff with Significant changes appropriate skills to the management and calibre.
structure are approved by the Board.
We periodically review the remuneration structure, including an annual review by the Remuneration Committee and benchmarking against industry, or other relevant comparatives.
