Monitoring Principal risks During 2013, the Risk Committee has been strengthened with the membership expanded to include all members of the Group Executive The Board has ultimate accountability for risk continuous evaluation and monitoring by the objective of placing greater emphasis on the management systems and controls, with the Divisional Presidents, together with their risk identification process and the risk appetite.
Audit Committee having delegated responsibility respective management teams, including for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of business unit management and functional A description of the principal risks in the context the system.
More details on the role of the Audit management.
The risk framework is structured of Cobhams operations, together with a Committee are set out on pages 42 and 43. to ensure that risks are identified promptly, description of the potential impact on the Group managed appropriately and that actions are if unaddressed and an outline of the actions taken Cobhams Risk Committee, which is an executive undertaken in line with Group objectives.
to mitigate them, are set out in the table on the committee, is responsible for overseeing opposite page.
The risks are not intended to be execution of the risk management framework During 2013, the Risk Committee has been set out in any particular order.
The process for monitoring strengthened with the membership expanded to and controlling risk, illustrated below, emphasises include all members of the Group Executive with How we monitor and control risk Board review Significant risks, mitigation plans and progress Group Executive incorporating Risk Committee review Mitigation plans, performance, risks, impact financial & non-financial, emerging themes Divisional Functional Head review Assurance reviews Mitigation plans, risks, emerging themes Mitigation plans and performance Risk Assessment Corporate Division Strategic Business Unit Functional risk identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation planning as part of strategy process Operational Framework Organisation Delegated Authorities Culture, Values & Appraisal System Training & Development Mandated Policies & Processes Performance Measurement 14 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Reporting Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Principal risks Risk Description Context Impact Sensitivity Mitigation Comment The Groups revenue is derived Changes in government spending The successful completion of the EiD programme will enable Deterioration from global defence security and or in global growth rates could Cobham to optimise its market positions and transform in the macrocommercial markets.
The level and lead to programme terminations operating performance.
economic type of spending is dependent on or delays or changes in market The programme also reduces the Groups costs significantly, so environment a complex mix of macroeconomic, growth.
A fundamental shift in it can remain competitive in the face of volume declines or price fiscal and strategic defence and how customers procure products adversely pressures.
The Group is looking to generate incremental revenue security imperatives.
or services could also have impacting by reinvesting savings in the business.
a material adverse effect our markets on the Groups future results.
There is increased emphasis on identifying adjacent markets in which proven and transferable technologies can be applied, with success to date in transferring defence security technologies into commercial markets.
The Group is seeking to bring more balance between its defence security and commercial end markets to enable it to grow through the cycles.
The success of the Groups strategy Without appropriate quality As part of its strategic refresh the Group is reassessing its talent Shortage of is dependent on the Groups ability and quantity of skills throughout management requirements, including critical skills gaps, and is appropriate to attract and retain talent the organisation it would be developing plans to close them.
The Group has rigorous talent skills due to and skills.
increasingly difficult to execute management plans and an effective appraisal system.
It provides inability to the strategy.
competitive compensation packages that incentivise desired behaviours see pages 58 and 59. attract, recruit and retain the A dedicated careers website and team are focused on recruiting best talent people in the UK and USA.
The Group is pursuing a zero harm Safety, Health and Environment S|H|E strategy see pages 31 and 32.
The Group designs and assembles Failure to execute or deliver a To mitigate contract risk, a thorough review of terms and Contract risk products and engages in services contract gives rise to contract conditions prior to signing ensures contract provisions are and execution that are often custom built, utilising penalties, litigation and other fully understood and risks fairly allocated between parties.
complex technologies, under fixed financial liability, reputational risk Execution risk is mitigated through application and monitoring price contracts.
This gives rise to and increased programme costs.
of the Groups Life Cycle Management process to all bids, the risks of failure to execute the contracts and development projects, including following contract or manage it profitably, Group approval processes in line with delegated authorities.
the supply of a defective or delayed product or other contractual or As part of its strategic refresh, the Group has increased its focus liability risk.
on programme management capability and training.
The Groups financial results are Failure to manage financial risks Currency risks are considered as part of the bid approval Exposure in long dependent on managing macro can impact operating profit process on large contracts.
term contracts financial risks, including inflation, through higher costs or lower The Group sources and manufactures in local currency with respect currency and commodity.
revenue and result in the Group whenever practicable.
to inflation, failing to meet its forecast financial results.
Cobham puts currency or other hedges in place for at least currency and 80% of estimated exposure for a rolling 12 months.
commodity Cobham also puts currency or other hedges in place for the pricing majority of exposure for the duration of contracts, where fluctuations there are contractual obligations from the customer.
Inflation and commodity pricing risks are managed through appropriate contractual terms, with suppliers contracted on an equivalent basis to match residual risks where possible.
Minimum maximum supplier prices are contracted where possible to avoid unlimited exposure, when costs inflate ahead of revenue.
The Group seeks to avoid fixed price quotes for commodity related costs.
Notwithstanding all mitigation actions taken, the level of residual risk is still considered high.
The Group must comply Sanctions for failure by the Group, Cobham continues to drive a culture that ensures that safety, Failure to comply with numerous domestic and or its sales agents or others acting ethics and integrity are embodied in all that it does.
Policies and with laws, international laws, regulations and on its behalf, to comply with procedures are included in the Groups Corporate Framework regulations restrictions.
Cobham operates in a these laws, regulations and which are regularly reviewed and audited, including procedures and restrictions highly regulated environment and is restrictions could include fines, related to the use of sales and marketing representatives, subject to the laws, regulations and penalties, legal claims, suspension anti-bribery and corruption, gifts and hospitality, whistle-blowing restrictions of many jurisdictions, or debarment of the Group from and investigation of ethics and compliance concerns.
including those of the US, the UK future government contracts for Mandatory training is undertaken on a variety of compliance and other countries.
a period of time as well as an related subjects including US Government contracting, and impact on the Groups reputation.
These include anti-bribery Such sanctions could have an provisions, import and export impact on the Groups financial controls, government contracting position and future operations.
rules and applicable S|H|E legislation.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
