DIRECTORS REPORT Our principal risks and how we manage them Our Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively monitoring the Balance sheet gearing full range of financial and non-financial risks facing the business, at both an asset Gearing magnies the effect of movements in income on corporate earnings and and Group level.
By regularly reviewing the risk appetite of the business, the Board in property values on shareholders net assets NAV.
We assess balance sheet ensures that the risk exposure remains appropriate at any point in the cycle.
gearing levels in terms of both Interest Cover Ratios ICR and Loan To Value LTV Importantly the Board perceives risk not only as having a potential negative ratios.
The UK property sector tends to focus on LTV ratios and we manage the inuence on the business but also as an opportunity that can be a source of business within an inner gearing range of 35% to 45% LTV, which we would expect financial outperformance.
For effective risk management it is necessary that the to apply in normal market conditions.
At certain stages of the cycle, we would be identication, assessment and management of known and emerging risks form prepared to allow our LTV ratios to move to an outer range of 25% to 55% LTV.
As property is a capital intensive business, we naturally place a strong emphasis on the management of financial risks and the relationship Property development Property development has the potential to deliver new buildings at attractive that exists with return.
Set out below is an overview of how we manage our key financial risks in the context of our investment return objectives and our approach rental income yields and also to generate valuation surpluses materially ahead to capital allocation.
However, it can also lead to higher volatility of The Groups primary financial metric is total return.
On a portfolio of properties, valuation movements and income shortfalls if projects do not let up to plan.
total return consists of movements in asset valuations together with the income yield We manage our risk through both income and capital risk control measures.
The from receipt of rents.
Although our focus is on total return, we recognise that, with income-related risk measure is that, using conservative assumptions on vacancy property, income is an important component of total return and that, for our at completion, the impact of rental income from the un-let element of our shareholders, the dividend is likewise an important part of Total Shareholder Return.
development programme should not exceed the Groups annual retained earnings.
As we manage gearing levels centrally at the Group balance sheet level, we This provides safeguards against un-let developments leading to the Group having make decisions on whether to allocate capital to buy, sell or develop a property an uncovered dividend.
We also control the proportion of our capital deployed in on the basis of ungeared total returns, adjusted for risk, relative to our weighted development: the proportion of our capital in development will generally not average cost of capital WACC and also relative to alternative investment exceed 20% of our total capital upon completion of those schemes save that, opportunities.
As asset selection decisions are more important than sector where a material part of the development programme is pre-let, this proportion allocation in generating outperformance we would expect to focus our capital can rise to 25%.
In addition, we monitor the level of committed future capital allocation decisions more around the choice between development and expenditure on our development programme relative to the level of our undrawn investment than around sector allocation.
If there is a material difference in the debt facilities.
prospective returns between sectors, this will be reected in our capital allocation.
The tables below show the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business, the Boards view on how they have changed over the year and the processes by which We believe that our key areas of financial risk remain our balance sheet gearing and the level of property development.
These tend to be the primary source of we aim to manage them.
KEY Increased No change Reduced FINANCIAL Change from Risk description Impact Mitigation 2010 11 Liability structure p3437 Bank lending capacity and Reduced lending capacity.
Successful renancing of a 1.1bn revolving credit facility, which matures funding margins negatively Increased cost of borrowing.
in 2016, thereby limiting our need to go to the market in uncertain times: Increasing impacted by regulatory Limits ability to meet existing Access to different sources of finance with most of our funding on a long-term uncertainty in the financial sector requirements and or market debt maturities and fund basis and with a spread of maturity dates.
The weighted average life of our debt and eurozone, concerns over the exposure forward cash requirements.
at 31 March 2012 is 10.9 years: offset by new of certain banks to heavily Low gearing Security Group LTV at 31 March 2012 of 37.6% : revolving credit indebted eurozone countries Commitments funded through sales: facility maturing with the possibility of Our principal debt funding structure benets from financial default only being in 2016 contagion in the wider market.
triggered at 1 times Security Group ICR currently 4.6 times or 100% Security Group LTV currently 37.6% : At less than 1.45 times ICR or greater than 65% LTV, a persuasive covenant regime applies which is designed to preserve cash for the potential protection of lenders and encourage the business to reduce debt.
Land Securities Annual Report 2012 41 Our principal risks and how we manage them KEY Increased No change Reduced FINANCIAL Change from Risk description Impact Mitigation 2010 11 Liability structure p3437 Liability structure is unable Reduced financial and The Groups Asset and Liability Committee meets three times a year to monitor to adapt to changing asset operational exibility, missed both sides of the balance sheet and recommend strategy to the Board: strategy or property values.
business opportunities and We manage the business within an inner gearing range of 35% to 45% LTV in higher cost of nancing.
normal market conditions: Liquidity and gearing kept under regular review: Assess balance sheet gearing levels in terms of both ICR and LTV ratios: Security Group structure allows assets to be sold and ability to raise new debt: G reater exibility in the new revolving credit facility which allows debt to be drawn in certain circumstances even when the Security Group LTV exceeds 65%.
Adversely affects We have a hedging policy which generally requires at least 80% of our existing Group profits.
debt plus increases in associated net committed capital expenditure to be at xed interest rates in order to manage our interest rate exposure 94.8% as at 31 March 2012.
PROPERTY INVESTMENT Change from Risk description Impact Mitigation 2010 11 Customers p3859 Increased pressure on Shift in customer demand Large and diversied tenant base our largest retail tenant, Arcadia Group, consumer spending.
with impact on new lettings, represents only 2.5% of rents : On-going renewal of existing leases and Of our income 63.6% is derived from tenants who make less than a 1.0% economic uncertainty reduced rental growth.
contribution to rent roll: difficult trading conditions High quality property portfolio, of which 61.2% is located in London: for tenants in the retail sector, Target for maximum percentage of leases subject to expiry in any one year: increasing the risk that some Experienced leasing team: may be unable to meet rental Active development programme to maintain a modern portfolio well suited commitments.
to occupier requirements: Strong relationships with occupiers: Variety of asset types and, for the Retail Portfolio, geographic spread.
Composition of our property portfolio p3859 Incorrect asset concentration, Reduces liquidity and relative Large multi-asset portfolio: mix and lot size.
M onitor asset concentration our largest asset is only 6.3% of the total portfolio : Excessive volatility in income Average investment property lot size of 68.9m: and valuation movements.
Bi-annual portfolio liquidity review: Generally favour full control and ownership of assets 14.4% of assets currently in joint ventures : Monitor the spread of lease expiry dates we have an average unexpired lease term of 9.2 years with a maximum of 8.3% of gross rental income expiring or subject to break clauses in any single year : Monitor the proportion of our portfolio represented by pre-development properties.
42 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Our principal risks and how we manage them PROPERTY INVESTMENT Change from Risk description Impact Mitigation 2010 11 Acquisitions p3859 Inability to acquire new assets Reduction in revenue profits.
Enlarged investment team providing more experienced resources to identify to replace properties that have and close new acquisitions: Lack of suitably been sold or are in the process Closer integration between the portfolio and investment management teams: priced assets of being redeveloped.
Ability to control level of property sales: Risk analysis of speculative development pipeline on capital and income basis: Strategy of exing size of development programme according to the outlook for the market cycle.
DEVELOPMENT Change from Risk description Impact Mitigation 2010 11 Development p3859 Occupiers reluctant to enter Negative valuation The targeted rental income from the un-let element of our development into commitments to take new movements.
programme should not exceed the Groups retained earnings: On-going space in our developments.
Proportion of capital employed in development programme based on total economic uncertainty costs to completion will generally not exceed 20% of our total capital employed, save that where a material part of the development programme is pre-let, this proportion can rise to 25%: Monitor the level of committed future capital expenditure on our development programme relative to the level of our un-drawn debt facilities: Monitor market cycle and likely tenant demand before committing to new developments: Risk analysis of speculative development pipeline on capital and income basis: Strategy of exing size of development programme according to the outlook for the market cycle: In-house property market research capability: Skilled in-house development teams.
REGULATORY Change from Risk description Impact Mitigation 2010 11 Health and safety p6269 The risk of accidents Criminal civil proceedings Board responsibility for health and safety: causing injury to employees, and resultant reputational Quarterly Board reporting: contractors, tenants and damage.
Dedicated specialist personnel: visitors to our properties.
Annual cycle of health and safety audits: Established policy and procedures including ISO 18001 certication.
Environment p6269 Properties do not comply Increased cost base.
Board responsibility for environment: with legislation or meet Inability to attract or Dedicated specialist personnel: Increasing customer expectations.
Established policy and procedures including ISO 14001 certied environmental legislation management system: Active involvement in legislative working parties: Active environmental programme addressing key areas of impact energy and waste.
