London & Stamford Property Plc 11 Report and Accounts 2012 Risk management Our people The principal risks to the delivery of our key objectives have The key people who are instrumental to delivering our strategy notchanged since last year.
Our strategy continues to be to remain unchanged since last year, except for the addition of identify opportunities in the UK real estate market, which will PeterSchwerdt to strengthen our residential expertise as we offerdouble digit cash equity yields and to identify the potential continue to focus on Central London residential opportunities.
for value enhancement in our portfolio through effective The Executive Directors, together with Stewart Little and Jeremy assetmanagement.
Bishop continue to be subject to lock-in arrangements through We continue to hold significant cash balances as we search to30 September 2013, following the acquisition by the Company forwell located, well let investment opportunities but we are of LSI Management LLP, the former management company, cautious given the continued economic and financial uncertainty on1October 2010. which impacts on us, particularly from the Eurozone countries.
These five individuals, supported by Mike Tyler and Jackie Therefore, the principal risks and uncertainties which require Jessop constitute the Investment Committee which meets ourcareful management are: monthly with a remit to identify new investment opportunities andto ensure the effective management of the existing portfolio.
Delivery of the Groups investment objectives We have remained disciplined during the year to ensure that General economic conditions, the level and volatility of interest onlythose opportunities which meet our rigorous investment rates, potentially rising ination and the lack of cost effective criteria are pursued.
funding may mitigate against the achievement of investment performance.
Through xed interest rates or other hedging mechanisms, the Group ensures that its exposure to interest ratevolatility is prudently managed.
No current debt facilities are due for renancing until August 2014 at the earliest.
The Group will only enter into investment transactions where thespread between the cost of debt and the initial property yieldproduces sufficient equity return.
Enhanced property valuations Property valuations are snapshots in time and there can benocertainty that property valuations will be realised.
However, our focus on secure income from well located assets with increasing weighted average lease lengths provides robust support to these valuations.
Added value property management initiatives General economic uncertainty adversely impacts the property market and in particular raises the level of occupational risk.
Wecontinue to manage our exposure carefully against the risk ofweakening credit worthiness in our tenant portfolio and undertake forensic due diligence on tenant covenants onacquisition.
Occupational weakness mitigates against tenant enhancements being a mechanism for driving rents upwards.
Key performance indicators The main measure of the effectiveness of the Groups performance is the increasing dividend yield driven by well located assets, with strong tenant covenants.
To this end, wehave a very high occupancy rate and the management ofoccupational risk is key.
Longunexpired lease terms which lengthen as a consequence ofadded value asset management initiatives are a good indication of performance.
As a result of adisciplined approach to investment, we have ensured that wehave not overpaid forassets.
To reect the importance attached to effective risk management, there is a formal discussion on risk identication and management at each Board meeting.
In addition, the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, undertook a rigorous evaluation of the effectiveness of our risk management and control during the year, ensuring that risk management is embedded in the activities of the Group and not a one off exercise.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Ov Ove er rv vie iew w
