Risk management Risk management framework Board of Directors Strategic objectives Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Group COO: Group CIO: Group CFO: GroupInternal Auditor: MD UK: MD Germany: MD France: Group Financial Controller, Headof BCP and Loss Control, Group HR Strategic Risk External advice Director, Group Legal Director Log SRL Business Risk Internal Audit CC Business Leaders Assessment BRA The light blue represents changes to the framework since the last Annual Report.
Strategic objectives Accelerating Maximising the the growth of return on working our Contractual capital and freeing Services business working capital where not optimallyused t 0VS PGGFSJOHT NBZ USBOTQJSF UP CF t 'PMMPXJOH TJHOJDBOU QSPHSFTT PWFS UIF Principal risks uncompetitive within the market or an years in reducing working capital through unforeseen or sudden technology shift the disposal of the distribution business, occurs where the market develops appetite as well as other working capital optimisation for different equipment and solutions to those initiatives, a material increase in working offered.
Conversely, we could be motivated capital demand could harm further progress into investing significantly into an offering in this regard.
which transpires to amount to no more than hype.
t 0VS HSPXUI BTQJSBUJPOT BSF JNQBDUFE CZ the economic climate and with a certain level of uncertainty about a full return to economic stability in the short term there is the potential for reduced capital expenditure from customers.
t 8F GPSNBMMZ SFWJFX BMM MPTU CJET BOE NPTU t 5IFSF JT DPOUJOVFE GPDVT PO XPSLJOH Principal mitigations won bids to ensure that we keep abreast of capital controls in each country at all levels, customer expectation from their IT Services supplemented by a rigorous, target-based and Solutions provider.
We formally review incentivisation system.
In future, the ERP our internal service providers against price system will facilitate a common approach points and benchmarked service quality toworking capital management, across standards.
We tend to invest selectively into theGroup, through best practice and new offerings and only when they will be otherworking capital control adoption.
complementary to our overall Services suite of offerings.
t 8F CFMJFWF UIBU PVS PGGFSJOHT BSF UBSHFUFE specifically towards being beneficial to our customers who are looking to reduce costs, and an uncertain economic climate therefore tends to favour our Contractual Services aspirations.
We operate within different economies that are affected differently, at different times and our balance sheet remains healthy.
24 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Group Risk Committee GRC convenes quarterly, and within Going forward, the Board has agreed to scrutinise the management therevised structure, will be chaired by the new Group Chief ofthe risks contained on the SRL, by engaging in discussion on five OperatingOfficer.
The GRC is a sub-committee of the Group specific risks on the log, per Board meeting from May 2013 onwards.
Executive Committee and the minutes of all of the GRC meetings Such scrutiny will assist the executive team in prioritising thevarious areincluded within the information packs distributed to the Group risk mitigation strategies.
To date, the Board has actively participated in Audit Committee members.
assessing risks and suggesting suitable mitigation forimplementation by the executive team.
For example, the Board hasdedicated much The GRC is responsible for compiling, monitoring and developing effort into overseeing the implementation of enhanced succession and theStrategic Risk Log SRL.
In this regard, the Committee receives talent development plans over the last twoyears, as it has recognised guidance from external advisers and the results of the annual Business that a lack of management reserve with ability would be detrimental to Risk Assessment BRA, which is executed by all the business the continuity of the organisations growth aspirations.
The agenda of items considered at a GRC meeting also includes: Ownership of the risks within the SRL is shared amongst the GRC Health and Safety, Insurance and Liabilities, Business Continuity members and mitigation of those risks is monitored at the quarterly and IT Disaster Recovery, Corporate Sustainable Development meetings.
A Key Risk Indicator dashboard is in the process of and Internal Audit reports.
development with the aim of being able to provide at a glance information on the effectiveness of both mitigation measures and Some of the risks contained on the SRL are detailed below, aligned anyvariation in risk size.
The SRL also serves as a material driver to the strategic objectives they could potentially impact most.
indetermining the priority allotted within the Internal Audit Plan.
TheGroup Internal Auditor provides the Group Audit Committee withfeedback on the risk control measures being monitored and confirmation that the assessment of risk is made at a senior level.
Reducing cost Growing our Ensuring the through increased profit margin successful efficiency and through implementation of industrialisation increased Services the Group-wide of our Services and high-end Supply ERP system operations Chain sales t 'BJMVSF UP VUJMJTF FTUBCMJTIFE BOE SFQFBUBCMF t 3FTPVSDF EFNBOET DPVME BSJTF XIFO t 8JUI B QSPKFDU PG UIJT TDBMF UIFSF JT UIF processes, specifically designed for increased transitioning multiple new service business potential that during early transition efficiency, can result in poor service delivery opportunities at or around the same time.
operational issues could occur which and threaten reputation.
Margin erosion and Conversely, resource surplus could result impact on customer service levels and significant cost increases need to be incurred where a contract reaches end of term and ultimately, overall financial performance to recover stability.
The comprehensively is not renewed.
reported contract take-on challenges in t 0VS WFOEPS QBSUOFST DPNQFUF JO UIF Germany during 2012 was an unfortunate high-end sales environment and approach manifestation of this threat.
A challenged t %SJWJOH DVMUVSF DIBOHF GSPN CFJOH B economy does tend to impact Supply fragmented, country specific focused Chain activity adversely.
organisation to becoming a single Group, could prove challenging and time consuming to embed.
t 8F IBWF FTUBCMJTIFE B UBTL GPSDF UP TUBCJMJTF t 8F IBWF BO FTUBCMJTIFE USBOTJUJPO BOE t 5IF USBOTJUJPO PG UIF WBSJPVT TZTUFNT IBT the challenged contracts in Germany.
transformation activity programme with been phased over a period of circa three Progress of this work is monitored by the access to additional resources as necessary years, with the other countries providing Board at each meeting.
At the same time, utilising our Master Vendor relationship back-up support to the transitioning country.
asignificant level of focus is applied to which caters for bridging any capability and Lessons learnt from 2011 transitions in ensuring that the same service operation capacity concerns that may arise.
End of Germany and the UK will be deployed in processes are available and applied, across contract term exposures are reviewed well in future countries.
advance and planning for the redeployment t 0SHBOJTBUJPOBM DIBOHF XIFSF POMZ UIF TBMFT of resource is prioritised.
and customer facing functions remain in t 4FOJPS NBOBHFNFOU XPSL WFSZ DMPTFMZ XJUI country and all operational and business our leading partners and customers in order support activities are driven from central to continually promote and protect the value Group functions, should facilitate and we bring to the customer.
Computacenters expedite the culture change required.
customers demand optimisation of their IT infrastructures and to this end, vendor independent solutions are imperative.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
