The individual risks faced by the Group do not typically change materially from year to year: however, the magnitude and PRINCIPAL importance of these risks can change signicantly.
The Board recognises that it has limited control over many of the external RISKS AND risks it faces, such as the macro-economic environment, but it reviews the impact of such risks on the business and actively UNCERTAINTIES considers them in its decision-making.
For example, during 2012 the Board regularly considered the financial difficulties in the Eurozone and assessed the impact of them on the Groups investment and divestment decisions.
The Board monitors internal risks and ensures that controls are in place to manage them.
During the year, the Group revised its governance process for major investment transactions to ensure that the risks involved in due diligence or contract MANAGING RISK negotiations are more formally considered before proceeding with any transaction and that any specic risks being assessed RESPONSIBLY are in line with the Groups risk appetite.
Risks are considered within each area of the business, taking into account both the unmitigated risk assuming that controls The Group recognises that its ability fail and residual risk with controls operating normally.
The most significant risks are detailed in the Group Risk Register.
to manage risk consistently across the Each risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee organisation is central to its success.
and assigned to a manager who is required to develop a plan to manage or mitigate individual risks to an agreed position.
It defines risk as the potential effect The relatively small management team allows management of uncertainty on its ability to achieve to respond quickly to changing events so as to reduce any adverse effects on the Groups risk prole.
its objectives, while risk management During the year, the Executive Committee and the Board have ensures a structured approach to reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management decision-making that aims to reduce framework and practices.
The Group has identied certain areas for improvement in 2013, such as a greater focus on the uncertainty surrounding expected seeking to anticipate valuation movements.
outcomes, balanced against the objective The Group has a Risk Management Committee responsible of creating value for its shareholders.
for regularly reviewing the Group Risk Register, monitoring the most important controls and prioritising risk management APPROACH TO MANAGING RISK activities.
The Executive Committee considers emerging risks The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is and their impact on the Group Risk Register.
The Board reviews effectively managed across the Group and, on behalf of the the principal risks twice a year and the Audit Committee receives Board, the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the a report twice a year on how the Group Risk Register has been Groups risk management process.
The risk management process is designed to identify, evaluate Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and manage the significant risks that the Group faces.
process aims to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and therefore can only PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES provide reasonable and not absolute assurance.
The principal risks and uncertainties have the potential to affect SEGROs business materially either favourably or Appetite towards risk is considered at Board meetings unfavourably.
whenever significant strategic, financial or operational decisions are made, and is a key part of ongoing discussions The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are about strategy.
described below, along with the potential areas of impact on the Groups key performance indicators KPIs and the principal activities that are in place to manage such risks.
The direction of change in the level of the risk during the course of 2012 is given, along with commentary on any changes occurring and key links to further relevant information provided in other sections of this report.
UNCERTAINTIES These represent the risk factors over which the Group has limited control, and so they are rigorously monitored.
The most significant of these risk factors and some of the major potential impacts on the Group are set out below: 040 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL UNCERTAINTIES POTENTIAL IMPACTS CHANGES IN MACRO-ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Bank covenant breaches Global market and economic conditions have been challenging, with tighter credit Changes in the availability conditions and slower growth in most major economies during the last few years.
and cost of finance Although signs of recovery may exist, there are continued concerns about government Fluctuations in currency austerity measures, Eurozone sovereign and bank debt, the availability and cost of exchange rates credit and geopolitical issues that all contribute to increased market volatility and uncertain expectations for the global economy.
Changes in expected returns on investments Changes in asset values CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT POLICIES Changes in government regulation or policy at European Union EU, national and Increases in customer local levels could impact on the Group.
For example, unfavourable changes in tax and insolvencies planning regulations or changes to existing or planned infrastructure investment Occupier requirements including transport might change the value of the Groups property portfolio or not met inuence development decisions.
Changes in occupier demand Changes in rental income CHANGES IN THE COMMERCIAL ENVIRONMENT Changes in consumer behaviour, sustainability regulations or customer preferences Changes in operating costs could impact the attractiveness of the Groups properties to certain industry sectors.
Regulatory requirements not For example, the increase in online commerce is stimulating the demand for logistics met compliance breaches and distribution space located near major transport hubs and conurbations.
Competitor behaviour could also have a bearing on the Groups plans particularly in relation to competition for acquisitions, tenants and land for development.
re-categorised as a principal uncertainty: there is duplication PRINCIPAL RISKS of an issue: mitigating actions have reduced the level of risk Not all of the risks listed here are within the control of the and or natural hedging has occurred between risks and or Group, and other factors besides those listed may affect the the uncertainty surrounding the risk has been reduced.
Some risks may be unknown at present, and other risks that are currently regarded as The declassied risks are: failure to maintain an appropriate immaterial and therefore not detailed here, could turn out to be and cost-effective capital structure: the availability and cost material in the future.
of borrowing: and uctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Risks are classied as principal according to their potential The following table details each of the Groups current principal level of materiality after mitigating actions have been taken into risks, and these are arranged by five risk groupings referred consideration as determined by the risk management process.
to as risk categories that cover strategic risks, financial risks, operational risks, investment risks and compliance regulatory The principal risks that the Group reported last year have evolved in nature, as has the Groups response to them.
The purpose of grouping risks into risk categories is to assist the systematic identication of risks in a consistent Consideration of the Groups current risk environment, as well as its strategic priorities, has resulted in an additional risk now manner and to organise them so that they can be better managed.
It also helps to identify the root causes of these risks, being classied as principal risks, and this is described in the and the KPIs most directly impacted by each category are also table below.
The Groups strategy and KPIs are detailed in the Additionally, there are also a number of risks that have been Chief Executives Review on pages 10 to 19. fide-classied as a principal risk since last year.
There are a number of reasons for this, including: the risk has been www.
com 041 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED STRATEGIC RISKS The current or prospective risks to earnings and capital arising from changes in the business environment and from adverse business decisions, failed implementation of decisions or lack of responsiveness to changes in the business environment.
KPIs IMPACTED: TPR, TSR, EPRA ADJUSTED EPS, NAV, LTV, VACANCY RATE CHANGE RISK SINCE 2011 MITIGATING ACTIONS COMMENTARY PORTFOLIO SHAPE AND PERFORMANCE A strategic review of the portfolio was completed The reshaping strategy and the progress made Management considers that if the Group and assets identied for disposal.
The reshaping during 2012 are described in the Chief holds the wrong shape portfolio then strategy is being implemented over the medium Executives Review on page 10 to 12. non-performing assets or the wrong type of term and should result in SEGRO holding an assets may dilute portfolio returns resulting in appropriate balance of high quality stabilised relative underperformance of TPR and TSR and opportunity assets necessary to achieve against the market and external expectations.
the returns that our shareholders require.
PACE OF STRATEGIC CHANGE The pace of strategic change, including balancing Considerable progress has been made against If SEGRO does not deliver its stated strategic our strategic priorities against each other for three of the four strategic priorities announced changes at the right pace and within an example reducing leverage against reinvesting in November 2011, the exception being, acceptable timeframe then investor in new, core assets, will continue to be carefully reducing financial leverage.
expectations may not be met and improved considered by both the Board and the Executive The strategic priorities and the progress made shareholder returns may not be delivered.
Committee during 2013, alongside the KPIs against these priorities are detailed in the Chief established in November 2011 to monitor Executives Review on pages 10 to 12. performance.
Clear targets have been established for further progress to be made in 2013, which have been built into the personal objectives of senior managers.
IMPACT OF THE EUROZONE We remain alert to the potential financial and The Financial Review on pages 38 to 39 provides ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT operational risks to the business arising from further detail of the Groups foreign exchange A deterioration in economic conditions in the a deterioration in economic conditions in exposure to the euro and the policies and the Eurozone could result in a loss in value or the Eurozone.
We will continue to maintain a hedging arrangements in place to manage reduction in income to the Group, by high level of currency translation hedging against this exposure.
adversely impacting economic performance in the impact of a weaker euro and to closely monitor the markets in which we hold property assets our exposure to major tenants in the Eurozone.
If this deterioration also Geographically, the portfolio is located resulted in a weakening of the euro against predominantly in the relatively stronger European sterling this would have an adverse currency economies.
The split by property values is: UK translation impact on the reported sterling 66%, France 11%, Germany 8%, Poland 7%, income and asset values from our euro Belgium 3%, Netherlands 2%, Italy 2% and denominated operations.
FINANCIAL RISKS The risks to the cash ows, equity capital and solvency of the Group resulting from the debt funding arrangements of the Group and movement in external financial variables that have a significant impact on the Group, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the creditworthiness of the Groups major financial counterparties.
KPIs IMPACTED: TSR, EPRA ADJUSTED EPS, NAV, LTV CHANGE RISK SINCE 2011 MITIGATING ACTIONS COMMENTARY SOLVENCY AND COVENANT BREACH Funding and covenant ratio headroom are closely Further details of Treasury Policy, funding A material fall in the Groups property asset monitored by Group Treasury, the Treasury headroom, financial covenant ratios and related values or rental income could lead to a breach Committee and the Board.
headroom and sensitivities are provided in the of financial covenants within its debt funding Financial Review on pages 36 to 39.
The impact of major investment decisions arrangements.
This could result in the on covenant and funding headroom is also cancellation of debt funding which could, considered by the Investment Committee in turn, leave the Group without sufficient as part of the approval process for these decisions.
long-term resources solvency to meet its commitments.
042 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATIONAL RISKS The risk of loss and or missed opportunities resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems or from external events.
KPIs IMPACTED: TOTAL COST RATIO, CUSTOMER SATISFACTION, EPRA VACANCY RATE, EPRA ADJUSTED EPS CHANGE RISK SINCE 2011 MITIGATING ACTIONS COMMENTARY OPERATIONAL DELIVERY In 2012, various operational processes were Sustainability performance relative to operational The Groups ability to maintain its subject to internal audit.
This has provided delivery is detailed in the Corporate Responsibility reputation, revenues and shareholder value assurance that our processes are essentially Review on pages 24 to 31. could be damaged by operational failures robust, but with some scope for improvement.
That section sets out the identied areas for such as: We will ensure that operational processes remain improvement in operational processes and the Health and Safety incidents well controlled during 2013, and will seek to Groups approach to managing people.
Environmental damage implement identied improvements to Business systems or IT disruption these processes.
Failing to attract, retain and motivate key staff Breach of anti-bribery and corruption legislation INVESTMENT REAL ESTATE RISKS The risks associated with capital allocation including the acquisition, disposal and development of assets and the valuation of the Groups portfolio.
KPIs IMPACTED: TPR, TSR, NAV CHANGE RISK SINCE 2011 MITIGATING ACTIONS COMMENTARY MARKET CYCLE The Board, Executive Committee and Investment The market outlook is detailed in the Chief The property market is cyclical and there is Committee monitor the property market cycle on Executives Review on page 16. an inherent risk that the Group could either a continual basis and seek to adapt the Groups misinterpret the market or fail to react capital investment divestment strategy in appropriately to changing market conditions, anticipation of changing market conditions.
which could result in capital being invested or disposals taking place at the wrong time in the cycle.
APPROPRIATENESS OF Formal asset management plans are prepared The approach to investment and development INVESTMENT PLANS annually for all estates to ensure that capital is detailed in the Performance Review on pages Decisions to buy, hold, sell or develop assets allocation is optimised across the portfolio.
The 20 to 21. could be awed due to inadequate analysis, plans are used to determine where to invest capital inappropriate assumptions, poor due in existing assets and to identify assets for disposal.
diligence or changes in the economic or The Groups major development projects are operating environment.
generally pre-let to customers on a long lease.
Speculative development is carefully monitored by the Investment Committee and is limited to locations where supply is limited and demand is expected to be strong.
A new comprehensive Capital Investment Policy covering evaluation, due diligence, approval and execution, has been developed and implemented.
PORTFOLIO VALUATION The Groups re-shaping strategy is focused on The reshaping strategy is detailed in the NEW If we fail to anticipate portfolio valuation increasing exposure to attractive assets in core Chief Executives Review on page 10. changes we may fail to take action to sell locations and disposing of non-core assets.
The progress made during 2012 in reshaping under-performing assets or we may not be The Groups investment team is responsible for the portfolio is also detailed in the Performance able to manage shareholder expectations the regular assessment of investment market Review on page 11 to 12. appropriately, resulting in TPR conditions and for managing the biannual underperformance or potential damage external valuations.
to our reputation with investors and, ultimately, to an increase in our cost of capital.
This risk is also regularly monitored by the Investment Committee which also provides oversight of and challenge to the annual asset planning process.
An investor relations process is in place to maintain positive shareholder relationships and manage shareholder expectations.
COMPLIANCE RISKS The risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss, or loss of reputation that the Group may suffer as a result of its failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organisation standards, and codes of conduct applicable to its business activities.
THERE ARE CURRENTLY NO RISKS WITHIN THIS RISK CATEGORY THAT MEET THE CRITERIA FOR CLASSIFICATION OF A PRINCIPAL RISK Currently there are no compliance risks which, taking into account the impact of mitigating actions, including continued assessment and internal controls, are considered to be principal risks.
