principal risks and uncertainties The Groups strategy is to operate in a low-risk environment.
We invest only in Londons West End, where the property market has a long record of resilience and stability, we avoid major speculative schemes and we manage our Balance Sheet on a conservative basis.
Operational and financial risks facing the Group are monitored through a process of regular assessment by the executive team and reported to and discussed at meetings of the Audit Committee and Board.
Our principal strategic risks are those which might prevent us from achieving our goal of long-term sustainable growth in net rental income in our principal use of retail, restaurants and leisure.
RISK AND IMPACT MITIGATION RISK OF A SUSTAINED FALL IN VISITOR NUMBERS AND OR SPENDING WHICH AFFECTS: 1 The West End External threats Events which discourage visitors, such as threats to security or Such events, which are faced by all high-profile locations such as public safety due to terrorism, health concerns such as an London, are often beyond the Groups control, and are an inherent risk influenza pandemic, or disruption to the public transport network in the Groups  investment strategy.
on which the area depends, could reduce visitor numbers.
Over However, the Group has an active policy of working with many time, if a fall in visitors was both sustained and significant, this local bodies and statutory authorities to maximise the safety of could lead to a reduction in occupier demand and the rental visitors to the West End and its villages.
potential and value of the Groups property assets.
The Group has insurance in place which would meet the cost of physical destruction of its property assets resulting from a terrorist event, and would also reimburse the Group for up to four years loss of income.
We have detailed emergency response plans in place for each village.
page 14 How is the West End evolving?
page 14 Competing destinations Competition from other locations results in long-term decline in The West End has an enduring appeal it offers more than just a footfall and consequently rents and values.
Its wide variety of theatres, cinemas, parks, museums, galleries and leisure venues mean that visitors can have an experience not available in any other destination.
We ensure that our villages are kept special and different.
We are not complacent and recognise that visitors have a choice of where to spend their leisure time.
We monitor competing areas and seek out new concepts and ideas from around the world to keep our villages interesting for visitors.
pages 15 and 16 2 Our villages We fail to maintain the special character and or tenant mix in our We have a consistent strategy on tenant mix, recognising that it villages which is key to attracting visitors and potential occupiers.
needs to evolve over time.
Nurturing, developing and promoting the unique character of our villages is a key aspect of our Our tenants prosperity suffers because of a sustained business model.
We maintain a regular open dialogue with consequential decrease in footfall which results in downward tenants, and, being close to our portfolio, we have a deep pressure on rents.
understanding of the environment needed by our tenants to prosper.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 18 principal risks and uncertainties OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK AND IMPACT MITIGATION 2 Our villages continued The Group invests in areas where rental values are initially low relative to surrounding areas.
The overall village management strategies we adopt eg tenant selection, village reputation management, refurbishment schemes, public realm improvements etc are designed to create prosperous locations where higher rents are sustainable.
Our management team is experienced and, with KPIs focused on rental growth, is incentivised to deliver sustainable growth in rents.
The Board reviews village-by-village performance regularly.
pages 15 and 16 Key performance indicators - page 17 REGULATORY RISK Increasing regulation and its unforeseen consequences gives uncertainty.
Changes in national and local policies and regulation could increase costs, adversely limit our ability to optimise revenues and affect our values.
Planning policies All of the Groups properties are located within the jurisdictions The Group works closely with both local authorities to ensure that of Westminster City Council and the London Borough of its properties are operated in a manner which complies with their Camden.
Changes to their policies, particularly those relating local policies and statutes.
to planning and licensing, could have a significant impact on The Group makes representations to both authorities regarding the Groups ability to maximise the long-term potential of its proposed policy changes so that its views and practical assets.
experiences are considered in framing policy.
Income comes from a mix of uses so the Group is not reliant on one source of income.
pages 15 and 16 How do we engage with stakeholders and the community?
page17 Environmental regulation Legislation which is intended to bring about improvements to Our buildings, which on average are over 150 years old, are the environmental standards of buildings may impose situated in historic areas of Londons West End.
All our villages obligations on owners of older buildings which conflict with the are within conservation areas and many of our properties are existing legal requirements governing conservation areas and listed as being of special architectural interest.
We work with English Heritage and local authorities to improve Such legislation may restrict the future use of older buildings the environmental performance of our buildings within the by making them subject to standards of environmental constraints imposed by current conservation area and listed performance which cannot be met because the changes buildings legislation.
required would be inconsistent with existing legislation for We are assisting with studies to identify new approaches to listed buildings and conservation areas.
improving the environmental performance of older buildings and to develop refurbishment standards which are appropriate to their special status.
How do we engage with stakeholders and the community?
page 17 Corporate responsibility pages 42 to 46 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 19 principal risks and uncertainties
