16 Risk Management Risk Management and Internal Control Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential to the delivery of the Groups strategic, sustainability and financial objectives, ensuring that the Group delivers value to the shareholders, protects its reputation and meets the requirements of good corporate governance.
Croda is committed to the effective management of key business risks throughout the organisation.
Our Risk Management Approach The Group co-ordinates its global approach through the Risk Management Committee Board Oversight of Risk and Controls Audit Committee which meets quarterly and reports directly to the Board via the Audit Committee.
The Risk Management Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and comprises the Risk Management Framework Regional Presidents, the President of Global Operations, the Chief Technology officer, the Group Financial Controller and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, with the Group Risk and Control Manager Executive oversight of Risk and Controls Risk Management Committee Executive register in attendance.
The responsibility for risk identication, analysis, evaluation and mitigation rests with management at: Market regional Risk Functional Risk identication, identication,  assessment, mitigation assessment, mitigation review at least annually Governance and  Assurance processes review at least half yearly s%XECUTIVELEVEL REVIEWQUARTERLY Manufacturing site Sales ofce Risk These registers are reviewed and consolidated Risk identication identication to ensure there is a comprehensive view of the material risks facing the Group, along with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Identify and assess 17 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Risk Framework The risk register format, risk scoring and risk categories which cover strategic, external environment, business systems, people and process and financial are dened centrally in the Risk Management Framework.
Each risk at every level must have an owner who is responsible for monitoring and managing the risk.
Governance Board, Risk Framework, Audit Committee, Risk Committee Strategic Business objectives Identify risks, causes and consequences Identify risk owners Assurance monitoring and reporting Link to business Assess gross risks continuity planning Identify actions, action owners and timescales for further mitigating risks Identify current controls in place Assess net risks Review and challenge Activities During the Year and Priorities for 2013 The Audit Committee received a report from the Risk Management Internal audit have visited sites based on an audit plan agreed with the Committee at each meeting.
The Groups highest risks were discussed Audit Committee to provide assurance over key controls in operation.
and the adequacy and assurance over mitigating controls were reviewed.
Each site performs an annual self-assessment of their control environment The Audit Committee received a summary of the findings from internal against Group dened key controls.
Our own in house Group SHE audit audit at each meeting, and of the key issues arising.
More information on team have undertaken safety health and environmental related audits the activities undertaken by the Audit Committee is contained in the throughout the year.
Corporate Governance section on page 36.
An integrated assurance mapping exercise is currently in development The Risk Management Committee undertook a full review of the bottom which clearly links the three levels of assurance and the origin of that up risks from all risk registers against the identied key risks, as it does at assurance against controls over the key business risks, as well as least annually.
Emerging risks were considered at each meeting, and a identifying in one document the work of all the assurance providers nominated member of the Committee is responsible for ensuring that best operating throughout the Group.
This will be used to ensure that practice is followed in monitoring and addressing each of the key risks.
assurance is neither duplicated nor are there gaps in assurance provision.
Risk presentations were received by the Committee relating to IT security, innovation, implementation of new IT systems and the management of risks in the Acrylic Polymer plant project.
In 2012 two risks have risen up the Executive Risk Register as a result of these reviews and are now included in the summary of key risks below.
Management 18 Risk Management Key Risks Identied by the Group The nature of the industry in which we operate and our chosen strategy, expose the Group to a number of risks.
The Board has considered the nature and extent of the key risks and these are summarised in the table below.
Risk Description and Impact Mitigation Strategic Product and technology innovation Croda operates in competitive markets in which We operate an open innovation model where product innovation is key to our success.
Failing we look to complement internal innovation with to deliver innovation could result in a lack of customer and market driven external innovation.
competitive products and erosions of margins This is achieved through a global network of and or loss of market share.
relationships with academic and industrial centres of excellence.
Merger and acquisition strategy The Group has experienced growth through The Group has established policies and acquisitions and continues to pursue processes in place to manage the acquisition acquisitions to meet its strategic objectives.
process, integrate acquired businesses and Whether the Group realises the anticipated monitor performance.
benets from these acquisitions depends on the integration of the acquired businesses and their performance in relation to the Groups acquisition expectations.
Loss of market share to competitors Crodas core markets are subject to increasing The Group has specialised commercial sales competition.
Loss of business to competitors teams globally and a commitment to protect resulting from failure to consider changes in existing business with competitive and established markets could have an adverse considered pricing policies.
effect on Crodas financial position.
Failure to grow position in emerging markets One of our key strategic aims is for rapid growth Resource levels in sales, marketing and research in emerging markets.
Failure to deliver on this are being increased in the fastest growing objective may have an adverse effect on Crodas regions.
We are also committed to moving growth.
manufacturing closer to our target customers in these regions.
External Environment Product liability Croda sells into a number of highly regulated Quality management procedures are in place markets.
Non-compliance with quality for each site, and all manufacturing sites hold regulations could expose the Group to liability ISO9001 standards.
Major sites have also been and reputational damage.
audited against GMP Good Manufacturing Practice standards.
Compliance with global chemical regulatory As a global chemical producer, Croda operates Our Group regulatory team continue with the requirements in a highly regulated environment.
Violation or next phase of REACh product registration which incomplete knowledge of the appropriate remains the most significant chemical legislation regulations could limit the markets into which change facing the Group.
we can sell, or subject the Group to fines or penalties.
19 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Risk Description and Impact Mitigation People and Process Major site event involving the loss of a site significant operational problems could have an Strict internal safety and maintenance adverse effect on Crodas financial position.
We programmes are operated which are audited are reliant on the continued operation of our by our Group SHE internal audit team.
Business continuity plans are in place.
Major environmental incident Violations of safety, health and environmental In addition to maintaining compliance with regulations could limit operations and expose national and international safety standards, the Group to liability, cost and reputational we maintain strictly audited internal safety and impact.
Interruption of raw material supply Interruption in the supply of key raw materials Wherever possible we multi source our key raw would signicantly impact operations and our materials and or we purchase them under financial position.
Interruption of supply could medium to long term contracts.
We manage our arise from implementation of new, more raw material stock levels taking these rigorous legislation or from market shortage.
Employees and the recruitment and We rely on knowledgeable and specialised We have procedures in place to identify and retention of high quality staff employees throughout the Group whose vision retain key employees and to develop succession and experience is critical to maintaining the plans for key positions, including a Global Talent Groups success.
The lack of an appropriately review process.
People development skilled workforce could adversely impact the programmes are in place.
Remuneration policies Groups ability to perform in line with expectations.
are in place to reward and motivate staff.
Business Systems IT systems and security failure Croda relies heavily on IT systems and We have a global IT group who are very infrastructure to operate effectively and efficiently experienced in network and system security and to facilitate communication globally.
Failure management and in project management.
of these systems for a prolonged period of time Key systems run on a high availability mirrored will have an impact on operations and ultimately hardware and there are documented and tested our financial position.
recovery plans for key locations.
Financial Management of pension fund assets Croda has legal commitments relating to the The Groups pension schemes are overseen by provision of pensions and the operation of our the Trustees of the funds who take professional pension schemes.
In volatile market conditions, actuarial and investment advice as necessary.
increased future funding requirements may Trustees have the required skills as a result of have an adverse effect on Crodas financial experience and training, and where appropriate position.
the Group will appoint professional trustees to its schemes.
Currency exchange rate movements The global nature of the Groups business We maintain a strategic spread of exposes it to volatility in currency exchange rates manufacturing assets and geographic markets which could have an adverse impact on Crodas which itself limits currency exposures.
hedges its currency exposure on accounts receivable and payable where appropriate.
This year working capital management risk has been removed from the list of key risks in the light of the lower risk levels.
Risks which have risen up the risk register are loss of market share to competitors and failure to grow position in emerging markets.
The Group faces other risks which are subject to regular review, but which have been assessed as lower risk and are therefore not included here.
Some risk factors remain beyond the direct control of the Group and the risk management programme can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that key risks are managed to an acceptable level.
