Risk Factors subsequent growth of these markets.
Key personnel may leave without us We cannot predict the extent of such being able to replace them with new adoption or the growth in such suitably qualified and experienced markets, if any.
significantly in research and Our people have experienced development to identify such new significant change, including those ideas and technologies, we may invest associated with events leading up to in the wrong areas, develop products and following the acquisition of Zoran which fail to meet our customers in 2011, and the more recent disposal needs on a timely basis or at all, or in October 2012 of our handset fail to pursue product development connectivity and handset location opportunities that our competitors development operations as a result of undertake and bring to market.
Risk Factors which more than 300 employees This may for example occur because were transferred out of the Group.
we fail to correctly assess, anticipate, , CSRisinvesting or to react to, trends in technological  evolution, industry standards, or capabilities includingtechnical changes in the marketplace, or in capabilities butmaybeunableto circumstances where we acquire new identify, acquireandretainsuch technologies either as a result of The following section sets out the risks resources,  M&A or through assets purchases, that we have identified as a result of .
The but fail to incorporate the the review process undertaken by our  technologies which we acquire into executive management and Board,  our development programmes.
which is explained in more detail on  pages62to63ofour Corporate Our technologies may, therefore,  Governance report.
It reflects the risks decline in importance or be replaced pursueourstrategy.
Thiscould that we believe could have a material entirely as the prevailing technology: .
adverse effect on, among other or superior technologies may be things, the execution of our strategy, We may fail to target or support the developed by competitors, which our market share, competitive right customers.
could result in our products becoming position, business performance, less competitive.
The sales which we achieve from our results of operations, financial position products are largely dependent on or profitability.
We may fail to execute on the the commercial success of our delivery of new products on a The management of risk and the customers products.
timely basis or manage our ways in which we seek to mitigate the Our success also depends on development roadmap effectively.
impact of such risks forms part of our creating interest and demand for new day to day operations and of each  ideas and technologies that are function.
In the Business Review, on  brought to end markets through our pages 38 to 40, we explain matters , andoften customers products.
which formed part of the reviews increasinglycomplex, smaller undertaken by management and the  If our customers products are Board during 2012.  unsuccessful, or expected adoption  of new ideas fails to occur, on a Risks associated with ownership of  timely basis or at all, our business our ordinary shares can be found on  may be materially adversely affected.
pages 156 and 157 of the Directors .
report Corporate and share Weareregularly, andmaycontinue The design and sales cycle for our information.
tobe, subjecttolitigation, including integrated circuits can take up to 36  We may fail to identify, develop, or months and, in some cases, even .
acquire the right technologies or longer.
introduce the right products to win From time to time in the ordinary The delay or failure by us to launch in our selected markets, due to course of our business, we have and deliver new products on a timely misunderstanding customers, received, and may continue to basis or in line with our customers markets or technology trends.
receive, communications from expectations or market requirements customers, competitors and others could result in a decrease in customer An important factor in remaining threatening litigation in respect of orders, thereby adversely affecting competitive is to understand the claims that we have breached rights our revenue and our market share.
requirements of our customers and or obligations belonging or owed to provide them with technologies and them concerning patent and other We may not hire, retain or develop solutions that will support them in their intellectual property rights IPR.
the people needed to support our requirements to supply new and Additionally, we have in the past business objectives.
innovative products that may be received and may in future receive attractive to users, including in We depend on specialist skills and notices, that challenge the validity of consumer end markets.
Our success capabilities of our employees to our patents.
depends on adoption by our develop new technologies and customers of the technologies we products to compete effectively and All of these claims may involve offer as well as development and secure new business.
technology and patents that may 44 45 www.
com future be, brought against or involving customer, whichmayormaynotbe Risk Factors us, may require the expenditure of available, andcustomerslosses continued potentially significant funds and .
Wemay resources, including significant  attorneys fees, and time, to litigate, substantialcost, whichmayincrease defend or settle such claims.
 Litigation related to such claims, expenditureoftime, includingthetimeof whether in courts before management, andsuchredesignsmay administrative bodies such as the ITC,  or in arbitration, can be complicated, .
To protracted and expensive with regard  to litigation fees and costs or toindemnification, suchdisputemay apply to a wide range of our products settlement.
IP claims could also divert  and know how.
the attention of our management or  other key employees.
No assurance  We are, and expect to be on an can be made that third parties will not customer.
Insomeinstances, a ongoing basis, involved in litigation, seek to commence additional  including that associated with litigation against us, or that the  intellectual property.
Such litigation pending and or additional litigation will  typically involves allegations of not have a material adverse effect on demands.
Wehavereceived, and infringement and seeks unspecified our business.
Any of the foregoing , damages, a permanent injunction could have a material adverse impact  against further infringement, a finding on our business, revenue, operating  of wilful infringement, and attorneys expenses, financial condition and , fees and costs.
As we diversify and profitability.
The outcome of any directlyorindirectly, ourproducts.
grow our business, we may become litigation is uncertain and either more involved in litigation or Insomeinstances, ourproductsare favourable or unfavourable outcomes susceptible to infringement claims.
We and our customers who use our , such products have in the past been, and Litigation can take months or years to as, forexample, mobiletelephones, currently are, subject to material resolve, even if mutually settled automobiles, includingin-dash patent infringement litigation.
We and between the parties in suit.
While a navigationunits, personalnavigation our customers may in the future be claim is pending against us, our units, .
subject to further IP claims by third customers may be reluctant to  parties alleging infringement of our include our products as part of their  patents or other IPRs, including, for future product design, including if servicestoend-users.
Becauseofthe example, by third parties whose sole they believe that our products might  business is the assertion of patent ultimately be subject to an injunction usingourproducts, wecouldbe rights and IP litigation, which is or other legal remedy preventing their  common in this industry.
Companies in the semiconductor Therefore, even if we are ultimately industry often aggressively protect successful in defending an We fail to manage the transition to and pursue their IPR, including by infringement action, negative publicity smaller geometry process filing complaints with the US courts or could have a material adverse effect technologies.
administrative bodies such as the US on our business, in addition to the To remain competitive and sustain International Trade Commission ITC expense, time, delay and burden on our prospects for growth, we need to urging it to investigate the import and management of the litigation itself.
provide products and solutions which sale of allegedly infringing products.
incorporate increasingly complex ITC litigation typically involves the We may incur indemnity features, whilst at the same time plaintiff seeking an exclusion order obligations under our contracts meeting increasingly exacting against future import of the infringing with customers.
requirements on size, power and integrated circuits, chipsets and  cost.
This requires us to progressively products including the same and a  transition our semiconductor and cease and desist order in relation to .
system on chip products to marketing, advertising,  increasingly smaller line width demonstrating, warehousing for  geometries meaning chips of a distribution, offering for sale, selling, customersorothers.
Indemnification smaller size whilst incorporating faster distributing, licensing or using the  processing time using less power infringing products in the US or  which helps support customer transferring them outside the US.
attorneys,  demands for smaller, more powerful attorneys.
Inaddition, wecouldbe Thedefenceofclaims, including and cost effective solutions.
This requiredtopaydamages, exemplary thoseconcernedwithIP, evenif transition requires modifications to damages,   design and manufacturing processes,  settled,  and achieving these modifications againstthecustomer, andlicensingor .
could result in delays in product settlementcosts.
Ifaninjunctionis deliveries, increased expenses or Litigation, including infringement , wemaybe reduced manufacturing yields.
claims that have been, or may in the  CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Risk Factors  ourcodeasopensource.
Monitoring combination of patent, trade secret, geometries, onatimelybasis oratall,  copyright and trademark laws,   nondisclosure and other contractual , couldharm difficult,  agreements and technical measures .
 to protect our proprietary rights.
 Our Information Technology and These measures and the scope of .
automated systems could suffer an rights may not be sufficient to protect  interruption or chronic failure our technology from third-party  disrupting the conduct of our infringement, invalidation, challenge,  business.
circumvention or to protect it from the .
If our intellectual We rely on IT systems to support our We cannot assure you that our efforts property rights do not adequately operations globally.
The loss of IT to prevent the misappropriation or protect our technology, our systems could affect our development infringement of our intellectual competitors may be able to offer work, for example by delaying a property or the intellectual property of products similar to ours.
Also, the project, causing errors to occur in the our customers will succeed.
To laws of some countries, such as software we develop for our products, enforce a breached contract requires China, in which we operate and or or preventing us from launching new the initiation of litigation.
The initiation from which we derive significant products on time.
of litigation may adversely affect our amounts of revenue, may not protect relationships and agreements with intellectual property to the same  certain customers that have a stake in extent as, for example, the laws of the  the outcome of the litigation United States and Western Europe, , orresultin proceedings.
Litigation is very and our products may be at risk for  expensive, time consuming and may misappropriation by third parties.
 divert the attention of management  Our patent applications may not and other key employees from the .
provide sufficient protection for all operation of the business, which competitive aspects of our technology could negatively impact our business Inaddition, aswegrowourbusiness, or may not result in issued patents.
 Issued patents may also not provide needtogrowaswell.
Wemayface Additionally, despiteoursecurity us competitive advantages.
 measures,  Competitors may also independently , which  develop technologies that are   substantially equivalent or superior to .
IfourIT  our technology and may obtain  .
Becausethe patents that restrict our business.
If needsofourbusiness, forexample,  competitors are able to use our   technology, our ability to compete , our  effectively would be affected.
,  Moreover, while we hold, or have  , wemaybe applied for, patents relating to the  unabletoanticipate, counteror technology used in our products, adverselyaffected.
Inaddition, some of the products are based in  part on standards, for which we do We may fail to have appropriate  not hold patents or other IPRs.
Even measures and arrangements to employeeerror, malfeasanceorother where we have an issued patent, we protect and use commercially disruptions.
 may choose not to pursue all sensitive information, including  instances of patent infringement.
 Our failure or inability to obtain   sufficient intellectual property rights andthirdparties, whichincludesthe .
protection could increase our , our  expenses and harm our competitive , forthe , position and result in increased   litigation.
Weenterinto Design errors could go undetected  , during our development or  consultants,  validation phases leading to , , and product recall or customer includingcompetitors, litigationcould distributionof, ourtechnologies, dissatisfaction.
 Despitetheseefforts, personsmay  Intellectual Property Rights may attempttoobtain, use, copy, disclose, .
distribute,   products, servicesortechnology Protecting our proprietary technology research&developmentofthe withoutauthorization, includingbutnot is an important part of being able to hardwareandsoftware, whichare  compete successfully.
com our customers future demand, we Depressed economic conditions Risk Factors have to make assumptions about may continue to adversely affect continued their order levels, relying on customer demand for our products and projections as well as our own hence our financial performance.
Depressed global economic Due to general economic conditions conditions persisted through 2012: and the volatile nature of the even China, which in prior years had consumer electronics markets, actual maintained economic growth and demand can differ significantly from consumer spending, saw a general our assumptions.
Such fluctuations in slowing in its economy and these demand tend to be more extreme conditions are likely to persist during during the initial launch of new 2013.
Our products predominantly manufacture,  products and also towards the end of are, and will continue to be, supplied  a products economic life, when for incorporation into devices  demand can vary substantially from intended for the consumer market.
This persist or worsen and sales of such , Such fluctuations can result in us consumer devices decline, demand evaluation,  ordering too little product, meaning for our customers products, and  we cannot meet our customers therefore for our own products, are .
requirements, or too much, meaning also likely to decline.
Any difficulties we are holding excess inventory Errors, defects, bugsorvirusescould experienced by our customers and which we might not be able to sell to  suppliers in accessing sources of our customers in the future.
faulty,  liquidity could also seriously disrupt fromcustomers.
Iffailuresoffaulty their businesses, which could lead to Where we have discontinued  a significant reduction in future orders investment in new products, for products, wemayfaceclaimsfor of our products or difficulty on their example, the DTV business which lossesordamages, incurcostsfor part to meet their payment obligations was closed in 2011 and in handset  to us or the inability of suppliers to connectivity where we have ceased product, andexperienceorder meet their obligations to us in new developments following the sale cancellations, anyofwhichwould supplying products or continuing to of that business to Samsung in 2012, .
Inaddition, support our business needs.
we envisage declining demand for  products that are nearing the end of We may fail to properly manage the  including their life, as customers switch to Transitional Services Agreement , alternative and newer products.
As a TSA and overall relationship with  result, we believe there is increased Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd orreturnproductstous.
risk of holding too much inventory for Samsung and suppliers.
such products which may result in us We have agreements with customers either having to charge lower prices in In October 2012, we completed the that provide warranty protection or order to sell the product, being disposal of our handset connectivity indemnities.
Some of these unable to sell the products, or write of and handset location development agreements have no limitations on the inventory, resulting in the operations to Samsung.
liability and for those that do, the Company incurring material costs.
limitations may not be enforceable.
, CSR Also, any insurance coverage to the  Fromtimetotime, circumstancesmay extent it is available against losses ServicesAgreements, whichsetsoutthe  that may arise as a result of some   product defects may not be sufficient   to cover claims asserted against us,  term,  or may not continue to be available from4October2012.
Forexample, we  generally or on reasonable terms.
Forexample, during2012, Product defects could have longer   term harmful effects on our reputation   or our relationships with our  product.
 customers or the market acceptance product.
Also, Samsunghas  or sales of our products.
Failure to provide the required  support or meet certain deliverables The lead time to manufacture and test required,  could result in claims against us under our products for delivery from our  the terms of the disposal agreement.
suppliers ready for shipment to our  Further, our obligations under the customers can take 12 weeks and in selltheproducts, writeoffthe TSA, requires us to assign human some cases even longer.
To ensure inventory,  and financial resources, which are we have sufficient product to meet .
diverted away from supporting our CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Risk Factors own ongoing business activities.
In We do not have long-term suppliers are generally not obligated addition, the transaction contracts with our customers.
to perform services or supply consideration may be reduced by up products to us for any specific period, In keeping with wider industry to $10 million if Samsung ceases in any specific quantities, except as practice, we do not generally enter development of CSR9800 prior to may be provided in a particular into long-term purchase contracts 1 June 2013, or if that product is not purchase order.
with our customers, and we cannot shipped in commercial quantities on predict whether our current , or before 1 June 2014. customers will continue to place wearesubjecttorisks, whichwehave orders or whether existing orders or If we are unsuccessful in defending  contracts will be cancelled.
any challenge to our IPRs, such IP mayoccurinthefuture, including: claims could subject us to  significant costs, adversely affect   our ability to market our products, purchaseorders, which, insome , require the redesign of our cases,  , products or require us to seek cancelaltogether forexample, dueto  licences from third parties and slowingdemand, economicconditions,  adversely affect our reputation and   results of operations.
 , for controlofthecustomer, including  If we are unsuccessful in any naturaldisasters, suchasthe : challenge to our rights to market and  sell our products, we may, , including March2011.
Ifourcustomersstop other things, be required to:  suchas   pay damages, royalties, lost profits, , our , exemplary damages, and or the .
 third partys attorneys fees and  costs, which may be material: The average selling prices of our September2012 resultinginour products have historically declined cease the development,  over their life and this is likely to manufacture, use, marketing and or  continue.
sale of products that use the orders,  intellectual property in question in We have in the past reduced, and , plant light of a court-imposed order or expect in the future to reduce, the shut-downs,  injunction or in light of an average selling prices of our products businessaltogether: administrative order such as, for in response to competitive pricing changes in working practices example, an ITC order: pressures, or new product affecting product qualification or introductions by us or by our cease the importation of products product quality, changes in competitors, among other factors.
into the United States or other management personnel of suppliers countries in light of a court-imposed We may fail to offset reduced prices affecting working relationships, as a order or injunction or in light of an by increasing our sales volumes, result of reorganisations, mergers, administrative order such as an ITC reducing costs or successfully acquisitions or disposals: order: introducing new products at higher financial difficulties that may result in prices.
Any of the foregoing couldexpend significant resources to our suppliers being unable to obtain adversely affect our operating results.
modify or redesign our products, raw materials or services to satisfy manufacturing processes or other particular orders, plant shut-downs We rely on a limited number of technology so that we do not or closures or cessation of business third party foundries and infringe others IPRs, or to develop altogether: subcontractors in some cases sole or acquire non-infringing technology, suppliers to supply materials, quality problems at suppliers which may not be possible: and manufacture, assemble and test manufacturing sites, resulting in obtain licenses to the disputed integrated circuit products which lower yields, product failures and rights, which could require: the may be unable to meet the product returns: and payment of substantial upfront fees requirements of our business.
limited control over suppliers and future royalty payments and delivery schedules, quality assurance  may not be available to us on and control and production costs.
facilityand, therefore, relyonthird acceptable terms, if at all: or that we parties:, to cease marketing the challenged  supplymaterials, manufacture, products, and failure to obtain a foregoinginthepast.
Forexample, in  license may be a competitive 2013,   disadvantage as compared to  specifications.
Wepurchasecritical competitors who are able to obtain supplytoourcustomers.
 suppliers,  , wemaybe Any of the outcomes above may asinglesupplier, insupportingthe  materially and adversely affect our .
, We have no long term supply , or contracts and, therefore, our 48 49 www.
com International political and other tocertaincustomers, orwemayincur Risk Factors risks may adversely affect our penaltiesorfines.
branches subsidiariesand Forinstance, thereisnewUS ,  accountedfor40%, 44%and55%of  ,  respectively.
Asaresult, wearesubjectto   economicclimate, politicalenvironment,  products, additionalexpense      supplier, impairedmargins, reduced ourcustomersoperate, includingin  productionvolumes, strainedcustomer China,  conflictminerals.
Any economicclimate, bothnationallyand ,  regionally,  , the , unpredictable.
, We could be adversely affected as If we or our customers fail, or are increasedtaxation, restrictionson a result of financial difficulties of, unable, to manage these risks in the imports,  or failure by, our distributors.
various markets in which we operate, revaluations.
We supply a significant proportion of our business may be materially our products to end customers We may face difficulties in complying adversely affected.
Our with business practices or managing We may fail to compete largest distributor accounted for cultural differences, difficulties in successfully in a very competitive approximately 16% of our revenue in working with local infrastructure and market.
2012, 18% of our revenue in 2011, transportation networks, as well as compared to 12% in 2010.
The difficulties in complying with local The markets for our products are distributors are independent third regulatory requirements in the design highly competitive and rapidly parties who support our own direct of products in each of the countries in evolving.
We compete in different marketing and sales.
The current which we and our customers operate.
markets to varying degrees on price, economic environment presents In particular, we are exposed to the technical performance, product significant challenges for our legal and regulatory environment in features, product system distributors, including: China, which is subject to inherent compatibility, product design and uncertainties.
For example, technology, timely introduction of newuncertain demand patterns, which protections of intellectual property products, product availability, and mean distributors risk ordering more rights and confidentiality in China may sales and technical support.
We are products than they require to satisfy not be as effective as in the US or our end customers, resulting in them seeing increased competition other countries or regions with more holding excessive inventory: throughout the markets in which we developed legal systems.
The increased competition restrictions on credit terms, which also incur costs in complying with could result in more pronounced price mean distributors may have difficulty new laws and regulations for reductions, reduced margins and or in selling products because end example, labour laws and regulations loss of market share.
customers do not have the cash have been recently enacted in China.
flow to enable them to buy from the , Moreover, weandourcustomersare distributors: and   privatecompanies, , which lawsandregulations.
Asaresult, we manufacturing, marketing, salesand   .
   Our business would be disrupted if  .
For end customers were unable to obtain processors, andwemaylosethose example, theChinesegovernment our products from the distributors on  .
In the event a   distributors fails, we may be unable to .
Ifwe  collect amounts owed to us, for , ourresults regulations, wemaybeunableto products that we have supplied or   recover those products in default of adverselyaffected.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
