Afren plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review The following principal risks and uncertainties in relation to the Groups Principal risks financial andoperational performance have been monitored and reviewed during 2012. anduncertainties Key risk Description and impact How do we manage it?
Operational risk Field delivery risk Field delivery risk applies to all phases of the E&P cycle from seismic All operations are subject to risk reviews to identify as early acquisition through to production operations.
At each phase the aspossible potential risks todelivery.
Risk assessments were mitigating measures will be different, however failure to control risks conducted for all new seismic programmes in East Africa.
will manifest itself asproject delays, cost overruns, high production Our engineers analyse results from appraisal and development wells costs, early eld decommissioning and ultimately lower than and determine theappropriate course of action in terms of drilling expectedreserves.
2012 saw an increase in seismic operations, with extensive surveys All projects are closely monitored to ensure the project delivers being undertaken in East Africa, and increased investment in the against plan and toenable actions to be taken to maintain progress.
development of our assets in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, thereby Project nances are monitored against budget to minimise overruns.
increasing the potential impact on Afren of a failure to appropriately Production operations are closely monitored to ensure that manage this risk.
unplanned downtime isminimised and that operating costs are There are risks associated with monetising our reserves in the tightly controlled.
Kurdistan region of Iraq, while ongoing discussions between the Actual production is regularly checked against the annual Kurdistan Regional Government and the Federal Government of Iraq productionforecast.
We will continue to monitor this situation in order to manage our risk prole accordingly.
Exploration failure Exploration activities can be capital intensive and may involve a high Exploration assets are subject to a rigorous peer review process.
Sustained exploration failure will impact the growth Exploration risk is evaluated for each prospect by looking in detail andupside potential oftheGroup.
athow to fide-risk the key elements of the subsurface data, source rock, reservoir, trapping and seal mechanisms, etc.
Prospects are subsequently ranked and budgets approved.
Environmental safety As Afrens activities continue to expand there is a continuing focus Afren has a comprehensive EHSS management system with an annual incidents onpreventing major pollution and or loss of life due to systems or independent audit programme toensure effective implementation.
We have implemented EHSS management systems Dedicated EHSS teams in each area of operation.
based on best industry practice at both the corporate andcountrylevel.
Contingency plans in place and regularly tested.
unfulfilled work PSC Loss of production interest or exploration licence due toincomplete The operations, finance and legal teams jointly monitor compliance obligations fullment of work orPSCobligations.
Maintenance of good, open working relationships with local governments in the countries ofoperation.
External risk The countries in which Afren operates face political, socio-economic Ongoing monitoring and close liaison on the ground to monitor the Geo-politicalrisk and legal uncertainties.
situation from an Afren safety and security perspective.
2012 has seen political tensions in all of the areas in which we operate Contingency plans in place and regularly tested.
and these continue to be closely monitored to minimise the impact on our operations.
Security incidents Afren continues to operate in regions where kidnapping, piracy and Dedicated security teams in each area of operation.
Security risk assessments for each asset and operation.
Our operations both on and offshore have the potential for interruption Afren has a tried and tested system for managing community affairs, Host community action by our host communities if relationships are not wellestablished.
Dedicated community affairs teams are in place where required.
Oil prices can uctuate signicantly.
The policy of the Group is to protect its minimum cash ow Oil price volatility requirements in the context ofasustained downturn in oil prices.
The Group strategy to manage oil price risk is to hedge between 20-30% of the production curve by using financial instruments thatallow the Group to protect thedownside risk.
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Strategic priorities Pursue materially accretive acquisitions 1 Organic reserves growth 2 3 Production growth Operational ef ciency and financial discipline 4 Corporate responsibility 5 P20 KPI Performance metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Net effective working interest Chief Operating officer Operations 1 2 3 4 5 production review Hig High h Capital expenditure Operating costperbarrel Reserves replacement ratio Technical Director Operations 1 2 3 4 5 review Medium F&D cost LTIF Head of EHSS Corporate 1 2 3 4 5 responsibility High TRIR Number and volume of spills Work plan and budget Chief Operating officer Operations 1 2 3 4 5 review High Civil political unrest Country MDs Operations 1 2 3 4 5 review High Security incidents Head of EHSS Corporate 1 2 3 4 5 responsibility High Host communities incidents Head of EHSS Corporate responsibility High CR spend Realised oil price Group Finance Director Finance review 1 2 3 4 5 Medium Afren plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties Continued Key risk Description and impact How do we manage it?
Strategic risk As an oil and gas operator working in Africa, bribery and corruption Afren has implemented a Code of Business Conduct across Bribery and corruption represent an ongoing risk to our business.
An independent whistle-blowing hotline has been established toenable concerns about poor practice to be voiced without the fearofreprisal.
Specic Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy and procedures are reviewed and updated annually and quarterly respectively to meet stringent requirements of the UK Anti-Bribery and Corruption legistation as well as the UK Ministry ofJustice Guidance.
All new starters and existing employees are given specic training regarding Anti-Bribery and Corruption as part of the induction process and as an ongoing programme.
Quarterly updates are provided to the Audit and Risk Committee regarding Anti-Bribery and Corruption including any whistle-blowing reports and their subsequent resolution.
Audit and Risk Committee in place to review governance andinternalcontrols.
Risk management function working with key functions inthebusiness.
Management Afren has grown steadily through 2012 and has established systems All acquisitions are subject to thorough due diligence in order ofgrowth and processes appropriate for a larger organisation.
Management of todeliver an attractive integrationplan.
growth is now considered a reducing risk.
Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and retainkey employees aswellasto attract new personnel as and whenrequired.
Loss of knowledge and skills to the Group in particular in countries Succession planning is considered on a Group-wide basis, taking into Loss of key employees ofoperation.
account the development of the executive and senior management.
Intensied competition for human talent in Africa and the MiddleEast.
Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and retain key employees including Directors.
As the Company has expanded so has the strength and depth of senior management.
Loss of key personnel reduces as a risk as Afren Salaries and reward of senior executives, including Directors, continues to grow, and is also mitigated by our remuneration policies.
setatcompetitive levels using third-party benchmarks.
Financial risk Taxation and other There is a risk that future changes impact our profitability.
Our financial and legal teams monitor current legislation and legislation changes proposed changes and incorporate these into our working practices.
Maintenance of good, open working relationships with local authorities in the countries ofoperation.
The availability of nancing to maintain the ongoing operations ofthe TheGroup continued to optimise its capital structure during 2012 Treasury management business is key.
toprovide further financial exibility to fund the Groups .
The Group continues to manage its expenditure and monitor cashows to ensure that future cash requirements are .
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Strategic priorities Pursue materially accretive acquisitions 1 Organic reserves growth 2 3 Production growth Operational ef ciency and financial discipline 4 Corporate responsibility 5 P20 KPI Performance metric Strategic priorities Responsibility See also Change Assessment Group General Counsel Business ethics Number of whistle-blowing incidents 1 2 3 4 5 Medium Staff turnover Chief Executive Human Resources 1 2 3 4 5 Low Inability to recruit for keypositions Head of HR Human Staff turnover 1 2 3 4 5 Resources, Medium Directors remuneration report Effective tax rate Group Finance Director Financial review 1 2 3 4 5 Medium Group Finance Director Financial review Liquidity 1 2 3 4 5 Low
