Summary of key risks and mitigation to Audit and Risk Committee and Board Monitoring and reporting by line management Mitigating actions Afren plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Risk management process Risk overview In 2012 a major focus for the risk management Afrens approach to business programme was the development of the We have continued to develop our approach risk management has newly acquired assets in the Kurdistan region to business risk management during the course of Iraq and on the execution of the exploration continued to evolve during of 2012, focusing in particular on ensuring that seismic surveys in East Africa.
the key risks are fully dened and that effective 2012 in response to changes controls are in place for each component.
For Finally, the reporting of risks to the Audit in the business and operating example, one of our significant risks is in the and Risk Committee was reviewed towards environment.
area of eld delivery, however this manifests the end of 2012 to ensure that the itself in several different ways all of which Committee remains effective in discharging Peter Bingham, Chairman of Audit require different mitigation: drilling risks, project its responsibility to the Board.
risks and production risks each have their and Risk Committee On the corporate risk register we have specic characteristics and unique mitigation regularly reassessed the risks in the light of measures that need to be implemented.
This changes to the Group and the external move to increased granularity builds on the environment.
As a consequence the risks close working relationship established between associated with the management of growth the risk management and business functions.
and the loss of key employees have been We have also striven to ensure that basic down-graded reecting the growing riskmanagement is integrated into normal maturity and size of the Group.
business processes such that it is being performed at all levels in the organisation.
Inthis way there is early identication and mitigation of potential risks before they escalate and pose corporate risk.
Process for ongoing risk management Corporate risk register Corporate strategy Covers key business functions Strategy cascaded to business units Country risk registers Review risks Nigeria Business unit plans todelivery Cte dIvoire Kurdistan region of Iraq East Africa Strategy cascaded to projects assets Project and asset risk registers operated Ebok Okoro Project and asset plans CI-11 CI-01 operated Barda Rash Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 P22 For more information on our Key Performance Indicators Key activities during 2012 2013 outlook 2012 was a busy year with respect to operations starting up in new locations.
In East Africa, 2013 will continue to present new challenges as we move from seismic This was particularly true in East Africa where we saw onshore seismic surveys in Block 1 to drilling operations.
We have already begun to address the long lead time and Blocks L17 & L18 in Kenya and in Madagascar, and offshore surveys in Kenya, requirements of these projects and in particular the need for environmental impact Tanzania and the Seychelles.
In addition activities in the Barda Rash eld in Kurdistan assessments.
As we move nearer to operations and rm up our plans we will carry out expanded with a seismic survey, workover work on the existing wells and the start more detailed risk assessments to ensure that project delays are minimised and that all of construction on the early production facility.
Substantial work was involved in contingencies have been considered.
conducting pre-start-up risk assessments on these projects to ensure that the required In Nigeria we will be developing new production facilities and this will be a key feature of mitigations were implemented ahead of operations.
These risk assessments covered all the 2013 eld delivery risk.
A programme of detailed project reviews will accompany these aspects of operations including specic consideration of community and security risks.
developments to ensure that the projects are delivered on budget and on schedule.
At the corporate level work continued with the Audit and Risk Committee to During 2013 we will continue with our programme of cascading the risk management review the overall process of business risk management and to validate the risk process down to business units to ensure that there is greater line-of-sight between register.
This review focused on the highest risks, particularly that of eld delivery, the corporate strategic objectives and activities on the ground.
and considered in detail the different components of the risk and the mitigating measures that are in place.
During 2012 the other key area for risk management was that of production The business risk management programme within Afren continues to evolve to meet planning and forecasting.
This is one of the issues that contributes to the eld the needs of a growing and dynamic organisation.
The basic principles are well delivery risk and with production ramping up from Ebok the forecasting of embedded and there is a wide recognition of the need to identify and mitigate risks production rates and the operational planning behind this has become crucial.
at all levels of the organisation.
High Environmental Field delivery safety Security incidents unfulfilled incidents PSC work obligations GeoHost political risk community Bribery and action corruption Oil price volatility Taxation and other Management legislation Loss of key of growth changes employees Exploration failure Treasury management Low High Likelihood of occurrence Magnitude of impact
