s w e i v e r s t d e n i I f i m t u n p e r d o o i v e s e c m v e i t n c L c t e s e j i b A a m o d p o l e e t r m s s t e a h n e i t r p e h d T t e a m d D s e r w i e v i e v i e r t s r i d T o s r h o t r i a e e s a o n g t s s b e a v q 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties We manage risk to help us achieve our strategic objectives and protect our reputation.
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the Groups risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation of mitigating activities.
Internal Audit scrutinise certain assurance mechanisms in place to mitigate risks.
This process explicitly recognises the relationship between Internal Audit and risk management.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes are adequate and appropriate.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 to 56.
The Groups risk register is compiled through a combination of business unit risk registers and Board input.
The Board formally reviews the Group risk register when the annual budget is set and at each of the two forecast reviews throughout the year.
The Company Secretary and General Counsel is responsible for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Groups risk registers identified during the intervening periods.
The risk register review conducted during the year helps to ensure that a model of continued risk appraisal is embedded in the Group.
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls Commercial risks Loss of key customer There is strong competition between suppliers to our key customers.
We face No one customer accounts for a significant proportion of total revenues and competition on both our branded and retailer branded products.
To compete we continually strive to widen our customer base.
Despite challenging trading we have to purchase raw materials effectively, operate the supply chain conditions we have maintained investment in marketing our branded products.
efficiently, price our products competitively and continually innovate.
We continue our capital expenditure programme for our core dairies sites into the third year of investment that will deliver further efficiencies into the If we fail to do this we could lose sales.
Our innovation programme continues to generate new products that reinforce our appeal to customers.
We recognise the importance of strong customer relationships and the executive team play an active part in maintaining and developing these.
They are also involved in major customer negotiations.
We conduct customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we continuously monitor the service and quality levels provided to our customers and consumers, and have procedures in place to react quickly to any issues.
Our commitment to corporate responsibility remains a key part of our business strategy, and is an important part of our overall proposition to customers.
Reduced demand from consumers Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor ethical or other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
We continue to promote the health benefits provided by dairy products and develop healthier products.
We continue to maintain our focus on developing a compelling new product development pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer trends, for example with more  packaging, and healthier variants of branded goods.
Dairy products are staple purchases for most households and we focus on marketing to maintain market share and profit levels through continued difficult trading conditions.
Input cost volatility This area is closely reviewed by the Management Board which has established Volatile milk and non-milk costs vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and packaging could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other a risk committee to monitor and hedge forward non-milk commodity prices as cost efficiencies elsewhere or increase selling prices.
The risks associated with purchasing large volumes of milk have been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to major customers.
We seek For more information refer to: to absorb short term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies.
Our Chief Executives review purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication between Segmental reviews them to ensure customers are kept aware of changes to our cost base and Milk Procurement requests for price increases can be fully justified.
i e l p u t c a u r e n j t b o i b f i r o e o k G d s s a e s n r i i s d u R B s E x d i s e t r i o n t g i d n c o o r m n t a r e o c l s n o a a s m b s r e o s f s r t e e P d n e m e g a n a M Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 17 Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls Operational risks Restricted milk supply Restricted milk supply due to economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with our milk epidemic which affects dairy cows could restrict milk supply.
This in turn could suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and pressures lead to lower sales and profits.
Consumer confidence in dairy products could that affect both the farms and our business.
The majority of our milk comes also be adversely affected.
directly from farms under contracts that include a notice period of at least one year.
Our experienced Milk Procurement team understand milk production For more information refer to: and are alert to changes in supply.
We closely monitor the milk price we pay Milk Procurement to suppliers in order to ensure we can purchase the right quantity of milk to meet demand forecasts and have established procedures for allocating milk between our businesses if a short-term shortfall in supply does arise.
We have contingency plans established for major incidents and work closely with DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate.
These plans are regularly tested and reviewed with the Management Board.
Other operational risks Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has rigorous quality An accident, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems, or deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause injury, and controls in place to minimise potential risks.
Plans are maintained to respond or cause reputational damage with adverse consequences.
We are also reliant quickly to any product quality concerns and minimise any impact to the on information technology and exposed to losses in the event that systems Group.
Our business is also committed to the health & safety of all our fail.
employees and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to complete their work safely.
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained engineering resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers and hold appropriate stocks of spare parts.
They also all have fire protection systems and regular fire drills.
Our information technology systems are regularly backed up and duplicated in the majority of areas.
We have procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents and insurance cover for property damage and business interruption risks.
People risks Recruitment and retention We need to retain high quality employees to provide customers and We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
to ensure we can attract and retain the best people.
We have a wide bonus scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance.
There is For more information refer to: a performance review and talent management scheme to identify and develop Our people our own people.
We undertake regular surveys to monitor the relationship with our employees and their engagement.
Financial risks Liquidity We have to ensure that we have the appropriate capital structure in place to We are comfortably within our debt headroom and covenants and have a allow us to run the business.
good mixture of long-term credit facilities with supportive financial institutions who know our business.
Increased funding requirements into the defined For more information refer to: benefit pension scheme could reduce liquidity.
We closed the scheme to Financial review future accrual in 2010 and have taken out insurance to meet the liabilities Note 30 to the Accounts associated with many of our retired members.
Legal and compliance risks Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements.
There is We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers.
a risk of fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
We have undertaken Group wide training in respect of competition law and actively monitor and adjust to ongoing legal and regulatory changes.
We have a Business Conduct Policy, and a programme designed to ensure that all relevant employees understand what is and is not permissible under the UK Bribery Act.
Major project risk To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and projects following strategic reviews.
Successful execution of these projects is appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these.
Supervisory governance often key to delivering strategic objectives.
structures are also put in place to help successful delivery.
We are aware that too much change concentrated in a short timescale can be detrimental and manage this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate backfilling and use of third parties.
Not all of the risks listed are within the Groups control and others may be unknown internal control framework, details of which are set out in the Corporate Governance or may currently be considered immaterial but could turn out to be material in the Report on pages 50 to 56 and the cautionary statement regarding forward looking future.
The risks set out in this section, together with their associated mitigation statements at the start of the Directors Report on page 46. activities, should be considered in the context of the Groups risk management and Overview WE CREATE We constantly look for new and better ways of doing things
