Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board fide La Rues reputation is based on security, to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard integrity and trust.
The risks outlined in this shareholders investment and the Groups assets and at least annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the Groups section represent the principal major system of internal controls.
During the year, the Board carried out uncertainties and trends which may have an its annual review which covered all material controls, including impact on fide La Rues ability to implement financial, operational, legal and technology controls and risk effectively its future strategy.
Additionally, the Board received information about the Groups operations throughout the year enabling it regularly to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks to which the Group is exposed.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It relies on the Audit and Risk Committees to assist in this process.
significant changes to the risk assessment procedures were introduced two This report summarises the types of risks years ago to improve the management of risks at the business unit and functional levels.
These have been maintained with a further which are either specic to fide La Rue or which review undertaken by external risk advisers which has assisted could have a material adverse effect on the the Board in identifying some additional structural changes to Group, together with the controls which have strengthen further the area of risk management and activities been put in place to manage those risks.
overseen by the Risk Committee.
Changes to the Groups risk management framework and processes are underway and these will be reported more fully in the 2013 Annual Report.
Details of the Audit and Risk Committees are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 43.
Management is responsible for implementing the controls which are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group, and the risks to which it is exposed, with procedures intended to provide effective internal control.
The controls by their nature are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only Each business unit and every Group function provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The processes used by the Board and, on has developed and maintains a risk register, its behalf, by the Audit and Risk Committees, have been in place capturing significant risks to which the relevant throughout the year, and include reviewing: business unit is exposed or which have been sONTHLY lNANCE OPERATIONAL AND DEVELOPMENT REPORTS identied as a risk to the Group by the s NTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDIT REPORTS relevant function.
s 3IGNIlCANT ISSUES IDENTIlED BY INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDITS s 3IGNIlCANT 'ROUP RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION ACTIONS REPORTED BY the Risk Committee including updates to the Groups risk register s !NNUAL COMPLIANCE STATEMENTS IN THE FORM OF SELF AUDIT questionnaires s 2EPORTS ON OTHER MATTERS SUCH AS SECURITY HEALTH SAFETY environmental issues and re risks These risks are reviewed on a regular basis by the Risk Committee, which identies those risks which could have a material adverse impact in the context of the Group as a whole, and which are then reported to the Board.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 25 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk management and governance structure Internal financial control The financial control framework includes the following key features: Board s !N ANNUAL STRATEGIC PLANNING PROCESS s 2ESPONSIBLE FOR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE s !N ANNUAL BUDGET s $ElNES HIGH LEVEL RISK APPETITE AND RISK MANAGEMENT s !
"SYSTEM OF MONTHLY REPORTING BY EACH OPERATING UNIT WHICH framework involves comparison of actual results with the original budget s 2ECEIVES REPORTS FROM !UDIT AND 2ISK #OMMITTEES and the updating of a full year forecast on risk and internal controls sONTHLY REPORTING OF PERFORMANCE TO THE ""OARD s !UDITED ANNUAL lNANCIAL STATEMENTS s NTERIM lNANCIAL STATEMENTS REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS The main controls which address the financial implications of the major business risks are centred on strict approval procedures."
These are reviewed annually, approved by the Board and apply to all subsidiaries.
"They include: Audit Committee s %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS APPROVAL OF ALL MAJOR NON ROUTINE REVENUE s !DVISES THE ""OARD ON THE ADEQUACY OF INTERNAL CONTROLS expenditure and risk management framework s ""OARD APPROVAL OF ALL MAJOR CAPITAL EXPENDITURE s 2ECEIVES UPDATES ON RISK MANAGEMENT FROM THE #HAIRMAN of the Risk Committee s ""OARD APPROVAL OF ALL ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS s 2ECEIVES REPORTS FROM INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDITORS s !"
"SYSTEM OF AUTHORISATION LIMITS WHICH CASCADES THROUGHOUT on the status of internal controls the Group s $ETAILS OF !UDIT #OMMITTEE MEMBERS CAN BE FOUND s ""OARD CONSIDERATION OF ANY MATTER LIKELY TO HAVE A MATERIAL EFFECT on pages 34 and 35 on the Group Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base and modest levels of net debt in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain development of the business."
Further details on capital management can be found in note 12 to the Risk Committee accounts on page 78. s 0ROPOSES RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Treasury, foreign exchange and borrowing facilities s 2EVIEWS BUSINESS AND 'ROUP RISK REGISTERS The Group Treasury department provides a central service to s #ONSIDERS ACTIONS TO IMPROVE MANAGEMENT OF RISK Group companies and conducts its operations in accordance with clearly dened guidelines and policies, which have been s #ONSIDERS NEW OR EMERGING RISKS reviewed and approved by the Board.
Treasury transactions sEMBERS INCLUDE THE #HIEF %XECUTIVE 'ROUP &INANCE $IRECTOR are only undertaken as a consequence of underlying commercial General Counsel and Company Secretary, business unit transactions or exposures and do not seek to take active risk managing directors, the Group Director of Security and positions.
It is Group Treasurys role to ensure that the Group the Group Director of Risk and Internal Audit has sufficient available borrowing facilities to meet its needs in the foreseeable future.
Details of financial risk management can be found in note 12 to the accounts on page 73.
Risk owners and managers s 2ESPONSIBLE FOR OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT of risk within individual businesses or functional areas s !LLOCATION OF APPROPRIATE LEVELS OF RESOURCE FOR INDIVIDUAL risk control fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 26 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements The principal risks identied by the Risk Committee and reported to the Board in 2011 12 are set out below.
These are not presented in any particular order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
It is not an exhaustive list as some risks may be as yet unknown and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could become material.
Health and safety failure Unethical behaviour by employees Risk Risk All of fide La Rues activities are subject to extensive internal Health, There are already many controls across the business to ensure that Safety and Environmental HSE procedures, processes and controls.
standards of behaviour by employees are maintained at an appropriate Nevertheless, there is a risk that failure of process could, in the worst level.
However, it is possible that employees acting either individually case, lead to a serious injury or fatality.
or in collusion with others could act in contravention of the Groups stringent requirements resulting in major reputational and financial Mitigation damage to the business.
The Group has detailed health and safety standards which are internally audited and supplemented by certication to the OHSAS18001 Mitigation standard in all major facilities providing regular independent external The Code of Business Principles underwent a fundamental review and audit verication.
As part of the HSE management system, global audits was relaunched.
It is kept under regular review and is enforced robustly, of legal compliance with HSE requirements are undertaken at all major including dealing with non compliances through disciplinary procedures sites annually.
The Group HSE Committee reviews HSE performance where necessary.
The Groups whistleblowing policies and procedures regularly.
Each manufacturing facility has clear HSE action plans form an integral part of the new code and were also relaunched last which are prioritised, monitored and subject to review by local senior year under the banner of CodeLine.
Reports can be made anonymously, management to ensure that health and safety standards are maintained.
including by email, and are handled by a senior manager and reviewed HSE performance is reported to the Board monthly.
Travel security for routinely by the Board.
Strict recruitment procedures are maintained employees is also kept under regular review, with enhanced arrangements including mandatory vetting screening processes which are reviewed introduced this year including for repatriation in the event of a serious on a regular basis.
illness or injury whilst overseas.
Non compliance illegal behaviour by third parties Adverse movements in foreign exchange acting outside the law or fide La Rue policies Risk Risk In some countries fide La Rue relies on the services of third parties to The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange represent its interests.
There is a risk that third parties such as suppliers risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the or agents could operate in a manner contrary to the Groups strict policies US dollar and euro.
Any material exposure to foreign exchange risk could on ethical business conduct or the law, exposing the Group to potential have a major effect on the Groups profits.
reputational damage as well as possible financial loss as a result of Mitigation disbarment from tenders.
The Group aims to hedge between 60 and 100 per cent of foreign Mitigation exchange exposure risk arising from future commercial transactions The Group has a process for the appointment and remuneration of and recognised assets and liabilities.
An annual review of hedging third party partners TPPs which operates totally independently of the policy is presented to the Board.
The process includes a risk assessment of TPPs with external specialists engaged to undertake due diligence as appropriate.
The process covers, inter alia, the appointment, reappointment and Product security remuneration of TPPs.
Further control measures are also in place such as regular training for sales personnel, senior managers and TPPs on the Code of Business Principles and anti bribery and corruption issues with a particular focus on maintaining compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
The TPP processes are subject to regular review by external advisers Risk to provide further assurance.
CodeLine whistleblowing procedures There is the potential for reputational damage in the event of the loss have also been expanded to encourage employees to report any of materials from a manufacturing site as a result of negligence or theft.
suspicious conduct see Unethical behaviour by employees opposite.
Loss of product while in transit, particularly during transhipment, through The behaviours of TPPs are strictly monitored and their management is the failure of freight companies or through the loss of an aircraft or vessel overseen by the General Counsel and Company Secretary who reports as a result of an accident or natural disaster, is also possible.
Mitigation Security remains a key focus across fide La Rue and there has been a significant strengthening of the corporate security function over the course of the year.
Security performance is reviewed by the Executive Committee and reported monthly to the Board.
Robust physical and audit security procedures at production sites reduce the risk of an inadvertent loss or theft during manufacturing.
Movements of security materials between fide La Rue sites and onward delivery to customers are conducted applying stringent operational procedures using carefully selected carriers and suitably screened personnel.
All movements are risk managed and monitored globally on a 24 7 basis.
Procedures are kept under continuous review with any incident or non compliance subject to rigorous investigation.
fide La Rue maintains a comprehensive, global insurance programme.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 27 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Environmental breach Information security Risk Risk fide La Rues main banknote paper manufacturing site is at Overton mill The condentiality, integrity and availability of information systems IS which is located in an environmentally sensitive area.
Any significant could be affected by factors that include human error, ineffective design environmental breach, such as unauthorised discharges, could result in or operation of key controls or through malfunction or deliberate attack.
immediate suspension of operations at the site.
Outages and interruptions could affect the Groups ability to conduct day to day operations and any compromise of the condentiality of information Mitigation could impact its reputation with current and potential customers.
Environmental awareness is afforded high priority at all fide La Rue manufacturing sites and particularly at Overton.
To ensure continued Mitigation compliance with regulations, constant monitoring of all key operating fide La Rue keeps all aspects of IS security arrangements under regular parameters is in place with regular testing of discharge water against review.
There are a number of controls in place to manage this risk performance criteria agreed by the Environment Agency.
Controls and including network segregation, access restrictions, system monitoring, specialist personnel are in place on a continuous basis throughout the security reviews and vulnerability assessments of infrastructure and year, with regular training and awareness programmes in place for all applications.
Disaster recovery plans are in place to assist in the prompt employees.
Ninety two per cent of our Supply Chain sites have achieved recovery from significant system outages or interruptions.
continuity arrangements, including business impact assessments and regular testing are kept under regular review and are subject to independent external verication.
Breach of competition regulations Failure to achieve the Improvement Plan Risk Risk Breach of competition regulations could result in significant financial As detailed in the Chief Executives review on pages 8 to 9 the Group is penalties as well as reputational damage and disbarment from tenders.
in the process of implementing a major programme of change.
Failure to manage this process could result in disruptions to the business or dilution Mitigation of the intended benets.
Regular training takes place for all sales and other personnel who may have contact with competitors, for example at industry forums or during Mitigation formal tender processes.
A dedicated and fully resourced change team has been established under the full time guidance of a member of the Executive Committee.
A controlled project improvement process is in place with proactive business engagement and early mitigation of key risks wherever possible.
Loss of key site Geopolitical instability Risk Risk There are a number of key manufacturing sites across the business.
Political unrest has the potential to delay procurement decisions for The total loss of any one of these key sites could have a major financial sensitive products such as banknotes and passports.
Unexpected impact, particularly where the site forms a single source of supply for changes in key government positions may result in the unilateral the business.
cancellation of contracts under local jurisdiction.
Breakdown of law and order can also disrupt freight schedules and increase shipping Mitigation and delivery risks.
It is a key focus to ensure that site risks are clearly prioritised and resourced and actions taken, wherever possible, to eliminate or minimise Mitigation these risks.
The development, updating and testing of business continuity Close and regular contact is maintained with all key stakeholders plans is also an essential component in maintaining assurance for the so that any changes in customer requirements can be identied early.
The Group aims to achieve the highest standards Financial risk exposure is mitigated through the use of secured payment of risk engineering to minimise risks, particularly from re hazards and the mechanisms such as letters of credit or through close management use of ammable solvents.
of costs prior to receipt of payments.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 28
