Principal risks and uncertainties The group has established risk management processes to monitor, manage and There are risks and mitigate the risks involved in our operations.
uncertainties inherent The Board has established a committee specically to address the risks to which the in the groups operations business is exposed.
This committee, which consists of the executive management of the group, met four times in 2012.
The responsibilities of the committee are to identify which could have a the most significant risks facing the business, and to develop policies and actions to mitigate such risks.
Particular attention is paid to those risks which may have an impact significant impact on on the achievement of group strategy.
Senior managers throughout the group are consulted to identify likely risks.
our business, results and financial position.
Details of the most significant risks faced by the group are set out on pages 16 and 17.
Risk Impact Mitigation A major change in the In addition to substantial capital investment, Loss of market share profit production capacities, the group invests over 7 million in research and margins due to increased pricing policies or behaviour development activities each year to extend and competitive pressures of our competitors, or differentiate the product range and improve the consolidation between quality of our products.
We also expand the total The group operates in competitive markets either competitors or major collagen casings market by developing products throughout the world.
customers, could have a which convert gut casing applications to collagen.
significant adverse effect on Devro provides a high level of technical support to sales revenues and key customers.
Raw collagen represents The group manages the collagen sourcing risk Disruption to supply or increase approximately 14% of the by, where possible, entering into long-term in price of key raw materials groups total operating arrangements with specialised suppliers costs.
in various parts of the world.
We monitor The groups most important raw material is developments and changes in the global abattoir collagen, a naturally occurring animal protein Increase in price would and leather industries to maintain and develop obtained from cattle and sow hides.
adversely impact the appropriate relationships.
There is a risk that changes may occur in the Devro is investing in technologies which would supply or demand for food grade collagen, Disruption to supply enable the processing of a wider variety of raw resulting in significant cost increases for the could adversely affect material types.
manufacturing performance Contamination could lead to All of our manufacturing sites have achieved Product contamination a product recall, loss of FS22000 approval.
This requires a Hazard Raw materials and ingredients may contain reputation, or significant Analysis and Critical Control Point programme to impurities, contamination or disease.
be implemented with the aim of preventing contamination.
This may result in adverse The financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations Foreign exchange rate impacts on revenues, costs within our operating units is mitigated by a policy movements and the sterling value of of hedging a substantial portion of transactional reported profits.
foreign exchange risk for periods of up to fifteen As an international business, with costs being Approximately 85% of the months using forward contracts.
The group does incurred and revenues earned in several different groups revenues are not hedge the risk arising from changes in the currencies, the group is exposed to the risk of currently invoiced in rates at which overseas earnings are translated changes in the relative strengths of currencies.
currencies other than into sterling.
This risk increases in times of international sterling.
16 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Risk Impact Mitigation There is considerable Following the recruitment of the Group Human People competition for highly Resources Director in 2012, a number of internal Shortage of people with relevant technical trained staff in certain programmes have been introduced to train and expertise.
Devros strategy develop key employees.
In addition, recruitment of significant investment initiatives are underway in order to ensure that in the companys major capital projects will be managed effectively.
manufacturing base requires the recruitment and retention of highlyskilled technical managers and employees.
Customer credit default The group has established internal procedures Customer credit risks and controls to mitigate the risk of non-payment may adversely affect the The group is exposed to financial risks arising wherever we do business.
For example, we require groups business, results from its trading with customers and distributors either payment in advance or confirmed letters of or financial condition, in a large number of countries, where prevailing particularly during periods credit before releasing product to customers or payment terms are diverse.
This includes not only of difficult global distributors in parts of the world considered to be customer risk, but also the risk of failures in the economic conditions.
banking system and may increase in times of economic uncertainty.
Changes to food safety The Global Quality and Regulatory Affairs Director Impact of changes in regulations regulations could result actively monitors planned and actual changes to affecting food production in restrictions on the regulations in all relevant jurisdictions in order to movement of the groups minimise disruption to its business.
As a food manufacturer, the group complies products, or its raw with all relevant food safety regulations.
These materials, between The group is a founder member of the Collagen regulations are not only those of the jurisdictions territories, or necessitate Casings Trade Association, which represents the where products are manufactured the European changes to the production industry and promotes its excellent record in Union, the USA and Australia, but also the processes at one or regulatory and health issues.
Supplier approval regulations of the many countries in which more of the groups and traceability are under constant review.
Regulatory authorities routinely manufacturing facilities.
enact changes to food safety legislation.
There is a risk that There is a strong focus on measures aimed at Increases in energy costs significant additional reducing usage and cost per unit of output.
An Energy represents a major element of the groups costs may be incurred example is the investment in the co-generation manufacturing costs, but may be subject to in future as a result of plant at our Australian factory.
In addition, costs significant price volatility.
are actively managed by having the capability to Energy costs currently use different forms of energy at some of our represent approximately manufacturing plants and by entering into 8% of the groups total fixed-price contracts where these are considered operating costs.
As the group replaces old fixed assets, energy consumption tends to reduce, as new machines are generally more energy efficient.
Any significant The position and performance of each of the Increased funding requirements deterioration in the pension schemes are continually monitored by of pension schemes schemes asset values or the group, in conjunction with pension trustees unforeseen increases in and professional advisers.
Estimates of the amount and timing of future scheme liabilities might funding obligations for the groups defined increase the groups All defined benefit schemes are closed to new benefit pension schemes are based on various funding obligations and entrants, and the group is actively working to assumptions, including the projected investment could adversely affect the match assets to expected future cashflow.
performance of the pension scheme assets, groups profits and future bond yields, changes to assumptions about financial strength.
the longevity of the schemes members, and statutory requirements.
If there were to be a The group makes substantial investments in Development of non-casing significant conversion to product development and manufacturing process technologies co-extrusion, there could to sustain competitive advantage.
be an adverse effect on More than 85% of the groups revenue is derived the sales of casings Where there have been conversions to co-extrusion from the manufacture and sale of edible collagen revenues and profits of in the past, the group has often been successful in casings, primarily for sausages.
For many years, the groups operations.
obtaining the business to supply the collagen gel several manufacturers of machinery used in the required for such applications, and continues to be food industry have been promoting co-extrusion a world leader in this specialist category.
systems for sausages which do not require casings.
17 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
