24 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance review The following section sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing Principal risks the Group.
There may be other risksand uncertainties, which are not and uncertainties yet known or which arecurrently considered to be immaterial, but later turn out tohave a material impact.
Some of the areas set out will be outside of anyinuence that the business may exert.
Should any of the risks actually materialise then Dialights business, financial condition, prospects and share price could be materially adversely affected.
Area oH risk Description and mitigating activity A continuing significant slowdown in economic conditions globally and in certain territories such as NorthAmerica Macro-economic conditions could have a material effect on sales and operating profit, in particular for the Components segment.
Increasing The Groups sales and profits may inationary pressures on areas such as raw material and sub-contract costs may have an adverse impact in beimpacted byspending slowdowns operating margins.
The current adverse conditions for public organisations to reduce and or defer their capital spending budgets may impact on sales of some of our products.
Mitigating activities include: - We closely monitor the general electronics demand indexas well as industry forecasts so astobecome aware of market trends.
- Monthly data provided by distributors in America is examined, documented and reviewed asthisis also consideredto provide valuable information on market demand.
This should favour Dialights efforts in growing sales in some key niche current and potential Changes in government opportunities identied by the Signals segment.
Additionally, legislation may introduce newhigher and legislation or policy more exacting specications for existing products which will require product redesign and regulatory re-certication.
Therefore changes in product specications shouldfavour Dialight ingiving it an National and local policies with regard advantage overcompetition.
toenergy savings in anumber of areas suchastransport and communication Mitigating activities include: areconstantly evolving.
- It is Dialights policy to operate in highly regulated markets which require suppliers to achieve compliance with demanding productstandards.
- Our design and engineering departments have a proven track record in technical ability evidenced by strong working relationships with customers and regulatory bodies, the  of newproducts and a portfolio of registered intellectual property.
The threat may, for example, come from an extremely aggressive pricing policy for larger trafc contract Competitive environment bids in America and Europe.
We operate in competitive markets and Mitigating activities include: thereexists a threat that existing competitors - Our focus on identifying, developing and maintaining sales routes to market, servicing or potential newentrants will be successful strongcustomer relationships, competitive and leading-edge product portfolios and cost-efficient intaking marketshare.
manufacturing plants support Dialight as a major player in its chosen marketsand helps to reduce therisk of losing market shareto competition.
Mitigating activities include: Laws and regulations - Group policies and procedures are documented and communicated throughout the Group.
AllGroup The Groups operations aresubject to companies have an employee handbook detailing employment practices and staff who receive the awiderange of laws and regulations appropriate training and support to operate in their roles.
including employment, environmental - A Governance and Risk Committee has been established to monitor compliance with existing policies and andhealth and safety legislation.
procedures and consider improvements and changes to these on an ongoing basis.
com PerHormance review Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 25 Area oH risk Description and mitigating activity The adoption by the market of LEDs for newapplications is principally dependent onthe increased efficiency Strategy Hor revenue growth and reduced cost of LEDs versus existing technologies such as uorescent orhigh-intensity discharge.
The LED Lighting achievability of the Groups longer-term sales growth would be seriously atriskif the parties who are developing the LEDs did not achieve the expected progress such that new applications did not become feasible.
The achievement of our goals is dependent on growing sales in the chosen markets for Additionally with the fast-changing technology world that exists there is a possibility of a technology being developed that supersedes LEDs.
Mitigating activities include: - Our engineers are actively contributing with their presence on industry related boards, attendance andpresentations at industry seminars etc, so as to be proactively involved and to keep abreast ofdevelopments on a regular basis.
The Group operates a stringent policy on the sharing of know-how with third parties as well as having a well Intellectual property dened policy on the in-house identication and registration of patents.
If the Group fails toor is unable to The development and ownership of protect, maintain and enforce its existing intellectual property, it may result in the loss forthe Group of the intellectual property is critical in underpinning exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are included or used inits businesses.
the growth potential for the business.
Mitigating activities include: - Plans to improve the quality of the new product introduction systems across the businesses have been implemented with good progress being made as evidenced by the expanding patent portfolio.
If a product of the Group does not conform to agreed specications or is otherwise defective, the Group Product liability risks may be subject to claims by its customers arising from end-product defects or other such claims.
Products should conform Mitigating activities include: toagreedspecications.
- The Group carries appropriate product liability insurance.
- We have a well developed stringent quality control system to help identify any defects before they are despatched to customers.
Any turmoil poses risks to the financial position of both our customers and suppliers, and also tothe Financial markets ability of the Group torenegotiate bank facilities.
Turmoil in global nancialmarkets could Mitigating activities include: poserisksto financial position.
- There are ongoing reviews of supplier bases to ensure wherever possible that there is not over-reliance on one specic supplier.
- The Group has a banking relationship with a number of banks.
Currently the Group has not drawn down any borrowings against the existing facility with Barclays Bank plc.
Regular contact will be kept with the banksto ensure that they understand the business and its requirements.
- Customers are subject to credit checks and there is very close review of trade debtor days outstanding and overdue amounts.
Purchase limits are set for all customers.
As a significant proportion of the Groups results, assets and liabilities are reported in USDollars and Currency exchange Euros, they are subject to exchange rate risk when translated to UK Sterling forincorporation into the The Group is exposed totranslation Groups results.
In addition, transactions are carried out by Group companies in currencies other than exchangeraterisk.
UK sterling leading to transactional foreign exchange risk.
Mitigating activities include: - Where possible the Group nets such exposures and will maintain a hedging programme utilising foreign exchange forward contracts and currency overdrafts to cover specic contracts and such proportion of other anticipated exposures as can be estimated with reasonable certainty.
The successful implementation of Dialights acquisition strategy depends on its ability to identify targets, Acquisition strategy successful completion of the transaction, achievement of an acceptable rate of return andasuccessful Inability to identify suitable acquisition and timely integration post-acquisition.
targetsand tointegrate successfully Mitigating activities include: acquiredbusinesses into theGroup.
- The Board plans to make acquisitions of businesses where the targets t appropriately into the Group strategy bystrengthening Dialights product range and existing technologies, offering new and attractive sales routes to markets, having high performance and motivated management and having aproven profit record.
