Principal risks and uncertainties Managing risk responsibly Our approach to risk management Risk process This section highlights the principal risks affecting the Group, Our risk process is designed to identify, evaluate and manage together with the key mitigating activities in place to manage our operational and financial risks.
The Group manages the operational and financial risks described through a combination of regular Board reports and also monthly and weekly management information that is reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Risk management process Overall Board responsibilities Risks and impact identied Risks mapped to controls currently in place Residual risks prioritised for mitigation Confirmed with the Board Existing control enforced and tested Controls identied Remedial action plans implemented Suggested action plans agreed Board member accountable Options for controls identified and costed Plans approved by the Board Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 20 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Operational risk management Risk description Mitigating activities Significant reduction in There is a risk that the number of deaths in any The profile of deaths has historically followed the death rate year significantly reduces.
This would have a direct a similar profile to that predicted by the ONS, result on the financial performance of both the giving the Group the ability to plan its business funerals and crematoria divisions.
Nationwide adverse publicity Nationwide adverse publicity could result in a This risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate significant reduction in the number of funerals policies and procedures are in place, which are or cremations performed in any financial period.
designed to ensure client service excellence.
This would have a direct result on the financial These policies and procedures retain flexibility performance of that division.
for the business to serve families in accordance with local traditions.
Ability to increase average Operating profit growth is in part attributable The Group believes that its focus on client service revenues per funeral or to the Groups ability to increase the average excellence helps to mitigate this risk.
cremation revenue per funeral or cremation.
There can be no guarantee that future average revenues per funeral or cremation will increase at rates similar to previous periods.
Significant reduction in It is possible that other external factors, such The Group believes that this risk is mitigated market share as new competitors, could result in a significant for funeral operations by reputation and reduction in market share within funeral or recommendation being a key driver to the choice crematoria operations.
This would have a direct of funeral director being used and for crematoria result on the financial performance of that division.
operations is mitigated by difficulties associated with building new crematoria.
Demographic shifts in There can be no assurance that demographic shifts In such situations, Dignity would seek to follow population in population will not lead to a reduced demand for the population shift.
funeral services in areas where Dignity operates.
Competition The UK funeral services market and crematoria There are barriers to entry in the funerals services market is currently very fragmented.
market due to the importance of established local reputation and in the crematoria market due to the There can be no assurance that there will not need to obtain planning approval for new crematoria be further consolidation in the industry or that and the cost of developing new crematoria.
increased competition in the industry, whether in the form of intensified price competition, service competition, over capacity or otherwise, would not lead to an erosion of the Groups market share, average revenues or costs of funerals and consequently a reduction in its profitability.
Taxes There can be no assurance that changes will not be There are currently specific exemptions under Financial risk management made to UK taxes, such as VAT.
VAT is not currently European legislation for the UK on the VAT chargeable on the majority of the Groups services.
Any change would apply The introduction of such a tax could therefore to the industry as a whole and not just the Group.
significantly increase the cost to clients of the Groups services.
Regulation of pre-arranged Pre-arranged funeral plans are not a regulated Any changes would apply to the industry as funeral plans product, but are subject to a specific financial a whole and not just the Group.
Changes to the basis of any regulation could affect the Groups opportunity to sell pre-arranged funeral plans in the future.
Financial risk management Risk description Mitigating activities Financial Covenant under the The Groups Secured Notes requires EBITDA to The nature of the Groups debt means that the Secured Notes total debt service to be above 1.5 times.
If this denominator is now fixed unless further Secured financial covenant is not achieved, then this may Notes are issued in the future.
This means that the lead to an Event of Default under the terms of the covenant headroom will change proportionately Secured Notes, which could result in the Security with changes in EBITDA.
Trustee taking control of the securitisation group on behalf of the Secured Noteholders.
In addition, the Group is required to achieve a more stringent ratio of 1.85 times for the same test in order to be permitted to transfer excess cash from the securitisation group to Dignity plc.
If this stricter test is not achieved, then the Groups ability to pay dividends would be impacted.
An assessment of the Groups exposures to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 21 |
