22 DIPLOMA PLC Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the Finally, plans and processes are established which are designed Groups annual planning cycle and market specic risks to control each risk and minimise its potential impact.
The are evaluated as part of the annual budgeting process.
risk assessments from each of the operating businesses are reviewed with the Executive Directors and a consolidated risk Each operating business is required each year to identify and assessment is reviewed by the Board.
document the significant strategic, operational and financial and accounting risks facing the business.
For each significant The principal risks and uncertainties which are currently judged risk, a number of scenarios are mapped out and an assessment to have the largest potential impact on the Groups long term is made of the likelihood and impact of each risk scenario.
performance are set out below.
Risk: Strategic Downturn in major markets Adverse changes in the major markets in which the businesses The businesses offer specialised products and services: this operate can have a significant impact on performance.
The offers a degree of protection against customers quickly effects will either be seen in terms of slowing revenue growth, switching business to achieve a better price.
due to reduced or delayed demand for products and services, A high proportion of the Groups revenues comprise or pressure on margins due to increased competitive pressures.
consumable products which are purchased as part of customers operating expenditure, rather than through A number of characteristics of the Groups businesses moderate capital budgets.
the impact of economic and business cycles on the Group as a In many cases the products are used in repair, maintenance whole: and refurbishment applications, rather than original The Groups businesses operate in three different sectors equipment manufacture.
with different cyclical characteristics and across a number ofgeographic markets, as set out onpage 15.
Mitigation The businesses identify key market drivers and monitor the demand.
Changes to cost levels and inventories can then be trends and forecasts, as well as maintaining close relationships made in a measured way to mitigate the effects.
with key customers who may give an early warning of slowing Loss of key supplier s For manufacturer-branded products, there are risks to the Currently no single supplier represents more than 15% of Group business if a major supplier decides to cancel a distribution revenue and only five single suppliers represent more than 2% agreement or if the supplier is acquired by a company which each of Group revenue.
has its own distribution channels in the relevant market.
There is also the risk of a supplier taking away exclusivity and either Relationships with suppliers have normally been built up over setting up direct operations or appointing another distributor.
many years and a strong degree of interdependence has been established.
The average length of the principal supplier In times of rapid economic expansion in activity, such as after a relationships in each ofthe sectors is over ten years.
global recession, there is also a risk that the lead times to supply key product can become very long.
The strength of the relationship with each supplier and the volume of activity generally ensures continuity of supply, whenthere is shortage of product.
Mitigation Actions to mitigate the risks include: Regular review of inventory levels.
Long term, multi-year exclusive contracts signed Bundling and kitting of products and provision of added with suppliers with change of control clauses, where value services.
possible, included in contracts for protection or Periodic research of alternative suppliers as part of compensation in the event of acquisition.
Collaborative projects and relationships maintained with individuals at many levels of the supplier organisation, together with regular review meetings and adherence to contractual terms.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 23 Risk: Strategic Loss of major customer s The loss of one or more major customers can be a material risk.
The nature of the Groups businesses is such that there is not ahigh level of dependence on any individual customers and no single customer represents more than 5% of sector revenue or more than 2% of Group revenue.
Mitigation Specic large customers are important to individual operating In addition to providing high levels of customer service, close businesses and a high level of effort is invested in ensuring that integration is established where possible with customers these customers are retained and encouraged not to switch to systems and processes.
Product liability There is a risk that products supplied by a Group business may However, if a legal claim is made it will typically draw in our failin service, which could lead to a claim under product liability.
business as a party to the claim and the business may be exposed The businesses, in their Terms and Conditions of sale with to legal costs and potential damages if the claim succeeds and customers, will typically mirror the Terms and Conditions of the supplier fails to meet its liabilities for whatever reason.
Product purchase from the suppliers.
In this way the liability can be liability insurance can be limited in terms of its scope of limited and subrogated to the supplier.
insurable events, such as product recall.
Mitigation Technically qualied personnel and control systems are in place The Groups businesses may also elect not to supply products if to ensure products meet quality requirements.
The Group has they are not fully confident that the products will meet the also established Group-wide product liability insurance which demands of the operating environment.
provides worldwide umbrella insurance cover of 10m in allsectors.
Loss of key personnel The success of the Group is built upon strong, self-standing The average age of our senior managers making up the management teams in the operating businesses, committed self-standing management teams in the operating businesses tothe success of their respective businesses.
As a result, the loss is 44 with an average length of service of eleven years.
of key personnel can have a significant impact on performance, As set out on page 45, the average length of service for all at least for atime.
personnel in the Group is over five years.
Mitigation Contractual terms such as notice periods and non-compete Establishing management development programmes to clauses can mitigate the risk in the short term.
However, more ensure abroad base of talented managers.
successful initiatives focus on ensuring a challenging work Offering a balanced and competitive compensation package environment with appropriate reward systems.
The Group with a combination of salary, annual bonus and long term places very high importance on planning the development, cash incentive plans targeted at the individual business level.
motivation and reward for key managers in the operating Giving the freedom, encouragement, financial resources businesses including: and strategic support for managers topursue ambitious Ensuring a challenging working environment where growth plans.
managers feel they have control over, and responsibility for their businesses.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 24 DIPLOMA PLC Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk: Operational Major damage to premises The Groups businesses mostly operate from combined office However, the Group has not suffered any major damage warehouse facilities which are dedicated to each business and topremises in recent years and in Clearwater, Florida there not shared with other Group businesses.
hasbeen no significant hurricane activity for at least the last fouryears.
Major damage to the facilities from re, malicious damage or natural disaster would impact the businesses for a period until the damage is repaired or alternative facilities have been established.
Mitigation The business where the risk is greatest is Hercules in Clearwater, The other businesses have also developed plans to prevent Florida which is most at risk from an environmental disaster incidents, including re and security alarms and regular re caused by a hurricane or tornado.
Insurance policies are also in place including property, has been designed to withstand 150mph winds, electricity contents and business interruption cover which would mitigate generators have been installed on site and a specic disaster the financial impact.
plan has been drawn up and is regularly reviewed.
However, the priority in such an event is to become fully Contingency plans include: operational as quickly as possible so as to minimise disruption Backup power generators.
Plans to ensure a quick and orderly recovery Materials on hand to secure the facility.
have been developed by the businesses and areperiodically Communications rerouted to other branches or interim locations.
IT recovery plan using backup server in separate location.
Regular building inspection and weather monitoring.
Plans to drop-ship product from suppliers direct tocustomers.
Loss of Information Technology IT systems Computer systems are critical to the businesses since their trading and other records, would be more damaging to the success is built on high levels of customer service and quick businesses than major physical damage to facilities.
A complete failure of IT systems, with the loss of Mitigation Business interruption insurance cover is held across the Group Backup servers identied and communication reroute and contingency plans have been drawn up in all businesses.
The recovery plans differ by individual business, but will include Service contracts with IT providers with access to some or all of the following elements: replacement servers.
Full data backups as a matter of routine are automatically Uninterruptible power sources and backup generators taken on a regular basis each week and stored online.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 25 Risk: Financial and Accounting The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial and and approved by the Board.
The treasury team identies, accounting risks, including foreign currency, liquidity, interest evaluates and where appropriate, hedges financial risks in close rate and credit.
The policies for managing these financial risks, co-operation with the Groups operating businesses.
The as well as the management of capital risks, are set out in note 19 treasury team does not undertake speculative foreign exchange to the consolidated financial statements.
The principal financial dealings for which there is no underlying exposure.
and accounting risks are summarised below.
The Groups overall management of the financial risks is carried out by a central The principal accounting risk is that of inventory obsolescence treasury team under policies and procedures which are reviewed which is managed by the operating business.
Foreign currency risk Translational exposure Foreign currency risk is the risk that changes in currency rates Currency exposures also arise from the net assets of the Groups will affect the Groups results.
The Group operates foreign operations.
At 30 September 2012, the Groups non-UK internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising sterling trading capital employed in overseas businesses was from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the 131.9m 2011: 118.2m, which represented 83% of the Groups US dollar, the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar.
It is estimated that a strengthening The net assets of the Groups operations outside the UK are also of UK sterling of 10% against all the non-UK sterling capital exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
employed would reduce shareholders funds by 12.2m.
During the year ended 30 September 2012, ca.
75% of the Details of average exchange rates used in the translation of Groups revenue and adjusted operating profits were earned in overseas earnings and of year end exchange rates, used in currencies other than UK sterling.
In comparison to the prior year, thetranslation of overseas balance sheets, for the principal the net effect of currency translation was to reduce revenue by currencies used by the Group, are shown in note 28 to the 0.7m, but with only a negligible impact or adjusted operating consolidated financial statements.
It is estimated that a strengthening of UK sterling by 10% against all the currencies in which the Group does business, would reduce adjusted operating profit, before tax by approximately 4.0m 8%, due to currency translation.
Mitigation The Group does not hedge translational exposure.
Foreign currency Transactional exposure The Groups UK businesses are also exposed to foreign currency exposed to a similar risk asthe majority of their purchases are risk on purchases that are denominated in a currency other than denominated in USdollars and Euros.
their local currency, principally US dollars, Euro and Japanese yen.
The Groups Canadian andAustralian businesses are also Mitigation The Groups businesses may hedge up to 80% of forecast being its forward foreign exchange contracts, which hedge forecasted a maximum of eighteen months foreign currency exposures transactions, as cash ow hedges and states them at fair value.
using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group classies Inventory obsolescence Working capital management is critical to success in specialised The charge against operating profit in respect of old or surplus industrial business as this has a major impact on cash ow.
The inventory is generally ca.
0.5m pa, but inventories are generally principal risk to working capital, is in inventory obsolescence not subject to technological obsolescence.
Mitigation Inventory write-offs are controlled and minimised by active regular cycle counts.
Where necessary, a provision is made to management of inventory levels based on sales forecasts and cover both excess inventory and potential obsolescence.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
