Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving theGroups Objectives The Group recognises that taking risks is an inherent part of doing business and that competitive advantage can be gained through effectivelymanaging risk.
We continue to develop our risk management processes, integrating risk management into business decision making.
Inaddition, the Board and Senior Executives have invested time to identify and assess the key risks facing the business and activelymanage the risks to achieving Group strategic objectives.
Risk management is performed from both a top-down and a bottom-up perspective, ensuring that strategic and operational risks are appropriately addressed and mitigating activities aligned.
The principal risks anduncertainties are set out below along with an illustration of what is being done to mitigate them.
Risk Examples of mitigating action 1.
Economic environment Strategy and business planning which takes into account The economic downturn is prolonged and volatile through 2012 and varying economic scenarios beyond, which could inhibit our performance and create uncertainty, particularly in the eurozone Ongoing monitoring by Finance and Senior Executives Renewal and Transformation plan to improve our business performance irrespective of macro economic factors Contingency management planning for economies most at risk Preparing for a further, more significant reduction in market size Greece exits from the euro, leading to a step change deterioration of throughadditional cost reduction initiatives the Greek economy and challenging the sustainability of our business Post event crisis management planning ongoing profit and cash ow scenario planning to help the Group to manage the impact of a range of possible scenarios Reducing exposure to currency devaluation 2.
Multi-channel business model Bring store and online formats together by further developing We fail to deliver our business model through a seamless ourwebsites multi-channel strategy that leverages the Groups strengths Introducing pay&collect and rolling out online in-store to offercustomers the full range of products regardless of their preferredlocation FIVES customer service training for all colleagues and product workshops to improve product knowledge Successful marketing campaigns to raise the prole of multi-channelbrands Development of best practice processes to support the multi-channel, which are rolled out across the Group 3.
Changing technology consumer preferences Ongoing investment in service offerings with roll out, through We do not respond quickly enough to capitalise on changes in theCustomer Plan, of customer journeys to help demonstrate customer demand for technology, content and service delivery winning solutions Increasing investment in digital content services, e. g. KnowhowMovies Improvements in our range planning capability Exciting product launches to make our stores the destination forthelatest technology, e. g. 3D TVs, new iPad Continued focus on ensuring we have an excellent range across allprice points, including own label brands 28 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Strategic Summary Risk Examples of mitigating action 4.
Competition Renewal and Transformation plan is improving our stores, Competitors reduce the Groups market share and or drive down coststructure and service proposition margins in specic markets Continuing development of strong multi-channel propositions andbrands Ensuring our prices offer good value, including use of a customer priceindex Continuing to take money out of our cost base and leveraging Group-wide benets where opportunities arise Building ever stronger relationships with suppliers 5.
Employees We fail to attract, develop and retain the necessary talent for Group-wide standardised performance management ourbusiness Talent reviews across the business Store structures which provide a clear career path for all employees Continued improvements in the quality of training courses and development programmes with specialist focus on service, product, commercial and technical Bonus plans, which include a component relating to individual performance and business performance Reward strategy aligned to retain the best talent 6.
Finance and treasury Implementation of extended revolving credit facility Our trading position suffers from a lack of availability of funding, uctuations in exchange rates and interest rates and reduction in Tight balance sheet management with independent reviews by availability of credit funding GroupFinance Strong cash management and monitoring Rigorous pre and post-investment appraisal processes Ongoing engagement with suppliers and credit insurers Innovations in, and close scrutiny of, working capital together with regular monitoring and review Detailed Group hedging policies, managed centrally and reviewed through a Group Tax and Treasury Committee Close scrutiny and management of the business portfolio Ongoing review and optimisation of store footprint, with closures orrelocations as appropriate Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 29 Directors Report Strategic Summary Principal Risks to Achieving theGroups Objectives continued Risk Examples of mitigating action 7.
Technology infrastructure support Contingency plans are in place and are tested regularly A key system becomes unavailable for a period of time, or our ITsystems do not support changing business needs and prevent Evaluation, planning and implementation analysis carried out usfrom leveraging business opportunities beforeupdating or introducing new systems that have an impact oncritical functions Investment in site functionality and user friendliness Development and implementation of IT strategy to further embed CRM in the business, enabling customer information to ow across allcustomer touchpoints Implementation of appropriate measures to secure key systems and data against malicious attack 8.
Legislative, contractual, reputational and regulatoryrisks In-house legal teams communicate on a frequent basis and As a result of a change in legislation, a decision by a regulatory legal reports are submitted to the Board authority, exposure in our compliance activities or disputes with third parties and business partners, the Groups business is impacted Legal teams manage issues which arise and there is Group by reputational or financial damage or a need to adapt the Groups oversight of significant matters business and processes relevant areas include competition, Group Ethical Conduct policy supported by annual declaration consumer rights, intellectual property, contractual obligations, of compliance by colleagues health and safety or compromise of condential customer data Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to discuss reputational and regulatory risks and monitor mitigating action Quality checks and factory audits for own-branded product assembly Compliance Committee approves activity that may impact the terms of Group credit facilities Contact with regulatory authorities Monitoring changes in legislation regulation 30 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Performance Review Directors Report Performance Review Overview Key highlights Financial highlights 1, 2 Q Group underlying total sales at in the full year with Q Total Underlying Group sales at at 8.19 billion strong momentum in the final quarter.
3 Q Group like for like sales down 3% in the full year, up 5% Group gross margins down 0.3% in the full year.
Gross margins at in the UK in the full year.
Like for like sales in the final quarter up 8% in the UK & Ireland Northern Europe gross margins down 0.5% in the full year and up 10% in the Nordics.
but recovering to at in the second half.
Q Growing share across most markets, particularly in the UK Q Total loss before tax of 118.8 million 2010 11 loss of 1 and Northern Europe.
224.1million, after non-underlying items of 189.6 million, 1 Q Underlying pre-tax profit of 70.8 million 2010 11 profit of whichare predominantly non-cash and comprise the write 85.3million.
offofgoodwill relating to Unieuro, Kotsovolos and PIXmania.
1 Good progress in UK & Ireland and Northern Europe with Q Underlying diluted earnings per share 1.1 pence 2010 11 profits up 15% and 12% respectively.
Basic loss per share for continuing operations 4.3pence 2010 11 loss per share of 6.6 pence.
Offset by weaker performances in Southern Europe andPIXmania.
Q 60 million of cost reductions delivered in the year with Q Strong growth in multi-channel with sales up 30% in the 90 million targeted over the next two years.
Q Net debt reduced to 104.0 million from 206.8 million year onyear.
Q 300 million revolving credit facility signed, extending the maturity date to June 2015.
Q On target to repay 160 million 6.125% Bonds due 15 November 2012 and associated hedge cost of approximately 65 million.
Q Customer satisfaction and advocacy measures continue to show good progress, particularly in the UK.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 31 Directors Report Performance Review Overview continued Underlying sales and profit analysis Underlying sales Underlying profit loss 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended ended ended 3 28 April 2012 30 April 2011 Like for like 28 April 2012 30 April 2011 million million % change % change million million 4 UK & Ireland 3,833.9 3,925.3 2 % 4 % 78.8 68.7 5 Northern Europe 2,628.0 2,375.6 11% 6% 113.9 102.1 6 Southern Europe 1,059.8 1,120.0 5 % 8 % 30.4 18.1 PIXmania 665.0 733.5 9 % 10 % 19.8 3.5 Central costs 13.8 15.8 Total Group Retail 8,186.7 8,154.4 Flat 3 % 128.7 140.4 Property losses 13.6 12.8 7 EBIT 115.1 127.6 Underlying net finance costs 44.3 42.3 Group underlying profit before tax 70.8 85.3 Notes 1 Throughout this report, references are made to underlying performance measures.
Underlying results are dened as excluding trading results from closed businesses, amortisation of acquired intangibles, net restructuring and business impairment charges and other one off non-recurring items, net fair value remeasurements of financial instruments and, where applicable, discontinued operations.
These excluded items are described as non-underlying.
The financial effect of these items is shown in the analyses on the faceofthe income statement and in note 4 to the financial statements.
2 Closed business comprises the operations of PC City Spain.
3 Like for like sales are calculated based on stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the beginning and end of the financial period and are calculated using constant exchange rates.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations.
Operations that are subject to closure have sales excluded as of the announcement date.
Stores closed for refurbishment are excluded during the period of closure.
All PIXmania store sales are included in like for like sales.
4 UK & Ireland comprises Currys, CurrysDigital, Dixons Travel, PC World, combined 2-in-1 Currys and PC World, Harrods concession, operations in Ireland, DSGi Business, Dixons.
Like for like sales exclude DSGi Business.
5 Northern Europe comprises the Elkjp group, Dixons Travel Denmark and Electroworld in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
6 Southern Europe comprises Greece Kotsovolos, Italy Unieuro, combined 2-in-1 Unieuro and PC City stores and Dixons Travel Italy, and Turkey Electroworld.
7 Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT equates to underlying operating profit and is dened as underlying earnings from retail operations, after property losses, before deduction of net finance costs and tax.
8 Free Cash Flow relates to continuing operations and comprises net cash ow from operating activities before special pension contributions, less net finance costs, less income tax paid and net capital expenditure.
Business performance Underlying Group sales were at at 8,186.7 million 2010 11 8,154.4 million and down 3% on a like for like basis, outperforming local markets in general.
Underlying Group sales were also at at constant exchange rates.
Underlying profit before interest and tax was 115.1million 2010 11 profit of 127.6 million.
Underlying profit before tax was 70.8 million 2010 11 profit of 85.3 million.
Group grossmargins were down 0.3% across the full year and down 0.1% in the second half.
32 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
