22 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has an established risk management process for identifying, assessing, evaluating and managing significant risks.
This is further described in the Corporate Governance report on page 44.
Risks and mitigation actions are identified at business unit level and in key functions.
Significant risks, which are defined with reference to likelihood of occurrence and materiality of impact, are escalated to a Group register.
Members of the executive team take personal responsibility for monitoring these risks and mitigation actions.
There are 14 significant risks on the Group register and these have been consolidated into nine principal risks associated with the successful execution of Group strategies.
These nine principal risks are summarised: Strategy Risk Likelihood Magnitude Trend Long-term customer Third party aftermarket Possible High No change A relationships through suppliers unparalleled expertise Damage to reputation Remote High No change B fromproduct failure Product leadership through R&D failure Remote High Reduced C superior innovation Disruptive technology Remote High No change D Service excellence and Supplier failure Possible Medium Increased E customer satisfaction Ban on use of certain Remote Medium Reduced F chemicals Strategic investment Failure of TEN Media Possible High No change G thatcapitalises on future market drivers Failure to develop digital Possible Medium New H press market Business sustainability Adverse change in macro Likely High Increased I economic conditions Likelihood is assessed as Remote in extremis, Possible could happen or Likely assume it will happen : Magnitude is assessed with reference to impact on Group profits as Low 1million, Medium 1-3 million or High 3 million : Trend indicates the extent to which there have been changes during the year either as a result of the external environment orspecificmitigation actions.
23 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Risk Impact Mitigation Long-term customer relationships A The Group competes against large, Loss of customer relationship.
Close monitoring of customer buying established global companies as well as Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
patterns and investigation into changes local businesses and independent suppliers in customer behaviour.
of aftermarket products and services.
Win-back programmes to reinforce Whilst there is always risk associated with the value of Dominos products and head to head competition, there is an service packages.
increased risk of loss of profitable Development of fluids with special aftermarket business to low cost providers.
properties and characteristics, optimised for performance in Domino printers.
B Domino products are used in high Lost customers.
Comprehensive quality control through-put and in some cases time Damage to the Domino brand.
Delivered quality is measured critical production processes.
Product Additional cost and reduced profits.
and feedback regularly reviewed: failure can, in the most severe case, helpdesk and field monitoring systems result in lost production or spoiled have been developed to ensure early product creating cost, disruption identification of any issues and swift and customer dissatisfaction.
Customer service and technical support delivered world wide through dedicated teams in all countries where we sell.
Operation of a global service standard defining performance expectation for customer focused teams.
Product leadership and innovation C In order to sustain competitive advantage Failure to achieve a return on investment.
An established and proven product and grow market share the Group Loss of market share.
creation process with rigorous stagemaintains significant investment in R&D.
Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
Product The development of new products specification, business plans, systems involves risks including failure to reach design, development and pre-launch the production phase, the product not validation including risk assessments, meeting performance requirements, peer reviews and process metrics.
project delays and the market not proving Close monitoring of early life performance.
to be as large as originally expected.
D Whilst the range of technologies presently Loss of leadership and innovator status.
A dedicated small team focused on used for coding, marking and variable Loss of market share.
future developments and technology printing applications has been developed Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
gradually and over a number of years, the Close monitoring of technology introduction by a third party of disruptive developments in adjacent applications, technology with lower cost and improved in particular digital printing, and ease of use characteristics remains a participation in industry events, potential threat.
Technology project sponsorship in universities and third party development houses.
24 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Impact Mitigation Service excellence E The Group operates a general policy of Extended lead times or inability to Our policy of dual source for all critical dual source of supply across all its supply resulting in lost sales and damage components or extended lead time items manufacturing operations but in some cases to reputation.
is supported by a requirement for safety specific components can only be procured Costs of recovery.
stock where dual sourcing is not available from a single source.
This may be due to the Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
or there is a risk to availability of a proprietary nature of the component or the particular raw material.
Many All key operating units have business Group suppliers are located in the Far East continuity and disaster recovery plans necessitating a lengthy supply chain and which address supply chain issues.
exposing the Group to potential logistics The Group maintains business and transportation interruptions through interruption insurance.
supplier failure or natural disaster.
This has the potential to increase costs or, at worst, interrupt our ability to supply customers in a timely manner.
F Use of certain chemicals in the Groups Disruption to customer supplies.
Our regulatory affairs team monitors fluids products creates exposure to often Additional costs associated with legislation and factors affecting unique regulatory and legislative fluid reformulation.
requirements of the many countries in Reduced sales, profits and cash flow.
We collaborate with Governmental and which we sell.
Chemicals which can or industry bodies to ensure that we take may come into contact with packaging of properly informed decisions and to help products are controlled and there are us anticipate and manage changes.
regular updates on exclusions from We have an active programme of approved lists.
While this typically managing compliance with chemical necessitates reformulation, with associated labelling and safety information costs, in the worst case it might lead to requirements.
We also actively replace product withdrawal and impact our ability products with materials that are likely to to supply customers.
25 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Risk Impact Mitigation Strategic investments G The Group has invested $50 million in Failure to achieve a return on investment.
Nigel Bond, Group MD, is a member of TEN Media to procure exclusive rights to Reduced future sales, profits and the TEN Media Board and has regular supply coding systems as part of a total cash flow.
and direct communication with senior solution being developed to enable management in TEN on project status compliance with food safety regulations in and progress.
TEN Media is a new company receives regular briefings on progress and is still at the  and status.
There remains a risk that TEN Domino has appointed a dedicated team Medias solutions will not reach final to support TEN in the engineering of its production stage or that the market for systems and the testing of solutions.
the systems is not as large as anticipated Significant work has been done to prove by the business plan.
the technology and its ability to achieve high quality marks on egg shells.
The size of the US egg market along with regulatory requirements and drivers were verified as part of the due diligence process preceding investment.
H The Group has invested up to 17.8million Failure to achieve a return on investment.
The business has been restructured and in the acquisition of Graph-Tech to Reduced future sales, profits and a senior executive has been appointed support development of a new business cash flow.
to lead the development of our digital opportunity in full colour digital printing print business.
We have actively of package labelling.
This is a new market recruited new staff to ensure we have and opportunity for Domino and there the full suite of skills necessary in sales are risks that we are slow to develop channels to manage and support sales necessary capability in colour management and installation requirements.
and or that the adoption of the technology Extensive field trials have been in the market will be slower than planned.
conducted with the full colour product.
The acquisition of Graph-Tech and launch of the full colour product was timed to coincide with results from early sales of the monochrome version and customer pull for the colour product.
Business sustainability I The Group makes sales in developed and Fiscal difficulties or foreign exchange Distributor credit limits are managed developing economies worldwide.
Material controls create an exposure to potential and reviewed frequently taking into adverse change in the political and bad debt.
account ability to pay and local economic situation in all countries where Reduced sales, profits and cash flow from economic and fiscal conditions.
we operate can impact levels of business.
Credit insurance is in place for material Specifically, the Group has reviewed its distributor debt.
potential exposure to the uncertainty surrounding the euro and Eurozone economies and concluded that the principal risk will be the ability of distributors to pay due debt subject to the value of any replacement currencies.
