Risk Drax Group plc Annual report and 32 accounts 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties A structured approach The effective management of risks within the Group underpins the delivery of our key priorities.
The Group has a comprehensive structure of governance controls in place to manage risks.
Policies have been established in key areas of the business such as trading, treasury, production and health and safety to ensure that these risks are managed in a controlled manner and in accordance with the policies set by the Board.
Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A process has been established for identifying, evaluating, determining risk appetite and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this has been in place for the year under review up to the date of approval of the 2012 Annual report and accounts.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk management committees There are six risk management committees: 1 Treasury and commodity risk Board Audit management committee responsible Committee for the review 2 Safety, health, environmental and system of risk internal production integrity committee management controls and internal and the 3 Business development risk control risk registers management committee 4 Corporate risk management committee Risk Management Committees Quarterly review of risk register.
5 Haven Power risk management committee Identify, monitor and manage risks 6 US business risk management committee Operating companies Maintain an effective system of internal control and risk management Each Committee is responsible for ensuring that all risks associated with their specic area of the Risk business are identied, analysed and managed systematically and appropriately.
Each Committee has terms of reference that requires it to ensure that systems and controls are approved, implemented and monitored to ensure that activities are commensurate with the risk appetite established by the Board, are adequately resourced and comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Each risk committee contains at least one member of the Executive Committee.
Philip Hudson Director of Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary Policy and review Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 33 Risk management process Internal control The key elements of the risk management process In addition, the Group has comprehensive and are as follows: well dened control policies with clear structures, delegated authority levels and accountabilities.
Risk identication risks faced by the Group are identied during the formulation of the Business The Group has a system of planning and monitoring, Plan.
Senior management and risk owners, with the which incorporates Board approval of a rolling five assistance of the risk management committees, year Business Plan and approval, towards the end periodically review the risks to ensure that the risk of each year, of operating and capital expenditure management processes and controls in their area budgets for the year ahead.
Performance against are appropriate and effective, and that new risks the budget is subsequently monitored and reported are identied.
to the Board on a monthly basis.
The Board also receives monthly reports on trading risk exposure Risk analysis the basic causes of each risk are as compared to the pre-set limits, and monitors considered, and the impact and likelihood of it overall Group performance against a Balanced materialising is assessed.
Risk registers are used to Corporate Scorecard which shows progress against document the risks identied, level of severity and a set of financial, operating, safety and other targets probability, ownership and mitigation measures for set at the start of the year.
Performance is reported each risk.
The risk registers are reviewed by the formally to shareholders through the publication of risk management committees on at least a Group results.
Operational management makes frequent quarterly basis.
reports on performance to the executive directors.
Risks are then logged with reference to impact The Group also has processes in place for business and probability as follows: continuity and emergency planning.
Probability Through the Audit Committee, the Board has Low Medium High implemented a programme of internal audit reviews of different aspects of the Groups activities.
The programme, which is reviewed and updated annually, is designed so that, over time, all facets of the business are reviewed to ensure appropriate systems of control are in place and are working effectively or, where they are not, deficiencies are rectied by timely and appropriate action.
In agreeing the actions to be taken in response to each report, the aim is always to embed internal controls, including measures intended effectively to identify and manage risk, within each area of the Groups operations.
In parallel with its work in relation to internal audit, the Audit Committee also satisfies Risk appetite is identied by reference to the same itself that an action plan, for dealing with points criteria.
The analysis enables decisions to be taken raised by the external auditor in their yearly as to how that risk should be managed by applying management letter is being properly addressed mitigation measures to align the risk with the by management.
With the assistance of the Audit Committee, Risk monitoring and assurance the Board is the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of ultimately responsible for this system of risk the system of internal control.
It has reviewed management and internal control.
The Audit the reports of the Audit Committee, which has Committee reviews financial information and the considered all significant aspects of internal control suitability of internal controls on behalf of the Board.
including financial, operational, trading, compliance, Risk management committees assist the executive social, environmental and ethical risks in accordance directors in the operation and implementation of the with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors risk management process, and provide a source of on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
assurance to the Audit Committee that the process is operating effectively.
Following its review, the Board determined that it was not aware of any significant deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control.
Impact Low Medium High Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 34 accounts 2012 Principal risks and uncertainties Commodity market price risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities k Volatility in financial results.
We experienced volatility in the k Well understood progressive hedging commodity markets in which we traded strategy, forward power sales with Associated objective and key priorities during 2012 corresponding purchases of fuel and CO2 k Maximise the value of the emissions allowances when profitable to Risk Drax business.
k We are exposed to the effect of uctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity and gas, the price of coal and sustainable biomass and other fuels, and the price of CO2 emissions allowances.
Counterparty risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities k Additional costs associated with securing The recent recession and uncertain k Diversied fuel supply in terms of source fuel and other goods and services from economic growth potentially impact and counterparties.
on counterparty risk k Good portion of purchases at market indexed k Failure to secure fuel from other suppliers Risk prices no mark-to-market exposure.
resulting in limitation of operations.
k We rely on third party suppliers for the k Diversied logistics routes.
delivery of fuel and other goods and k Adverse effect on cash ow and earnings k Target to optimise holding of fuel stocks.
We purchase a significant arising from the failure of one or more of quantity of our fuel under contracts with the counterparties to whom we sell power.
k Close monitoring and reporting of a number of large UK and international concentration risk in suppliers.
Associated objective and key priorities suppliers, so are exposed to the risk of k Full suite of power counterparties with k Maximise the value of the non-performance by these suppliers.
k We enter into xed price and xed margin k Close monitoring and reporting of contracts for the sale of electricity to a concentration risk in power counterparties.
number of counterparties, so are exposed k Trading contracts generally include to the risk of failure of one or more of provisions that force counterparties to post these counterparties.
collateral where their credit rating drops, subject to certain restrictions.
Power and renewables market liquidity risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities Liquidity in the markets is dependent k Inability to hedge short to medium-term k Grow direct sales through Haven Power, exposure to electricity prices through on there being a sufficient number of our electricity supply business.
counterparties willing to trade actively k Initiatives to be active and responsive make k Increased exposure to short-term Risk Drax an attractive business partner.
k The market structure and consolidation k Oppose structural changes that impact of the existing generation and supply k Inability to sell all of our output.
our market access, such as clearing businesses in the UK could result in k Lower revenues and increased costs and margining.
a reduction in the number of active to achieve trading objectives.
k Work with other independent generators participants in the market with whom k Adverse effect on financial results via Independent Generators Group to we are able to trade power and other and cash ows.
achieve positive market and regulatory commodities, including ROCs.
Associated objective and key priorities k Grow our retail business.
k Maximise the value of the Drax business.
k Maximise profitability from our coal generation capacity.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 35 Biomass market risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities k Inability to progress the biomass Sustainable biomass is well placed to k Contract with suppliers where a robust growth strategy.
provide the UK with low cost and exible operational plant and logistics infrastructure renewable power, and contribute to k Adverse effect on financial results is already in place: work with new suppliers meeting carbon reduction targets and cash ows.
to help develop such infrastructure.
Risk k Hedge currency exposures or secure Associated objective and key priorities k We could fail to secure sustainable contracts in sterling to the extent that it k Deliver our biomass strategy.
biomass supplies and or logistics is appropriate.
arrangements which meet our hurdle return rates and operational requirements.
k Most of the sustainable biomass that we can procure is priced in foreign currency which increases our exposure to uctuations against sterling and poses a risk to profitability.
Plant operating risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities k Personnel injury.
Equipment failure and the impact k Comprehensive risk-based plant investment on personnel and operations k Lower revenues.
Risk k Increased costs and contractual penalties.
k Maintaining a trained and k Plant failure may be caused by the competent workforce.
k Adverse effect on financial results underperformance or outright failure of and cash ows.
k Strong health and safety culture.
plant, transmission assets or other k Target to optimise holding of spare equipment and components including the Associated objective and key priorities components for use in the event of plant IT systems used to operate the plant or k Maintain operational excellence.
failure, particularly long lead time items.
The duration of k Deliver excellent people leadership the resultant forced outages is inuenced k Business continuity plan for IT systems.
by the lead time to manufacture and k significant amounts of research and procure replacement components and to development work have been undertaken carry out repairs.
in terms of handling and burning biomass.
k As we progress our plans to convert to a predominantly biomass-fuelled generator, we are exposed to a broader range, and increased level, of technical risk.
Regulatory and political risk Context Potential impact Change Examples of mitigating activities k Less funding available for plant retrot The Governments market reform agenda k Brieng, representation and engagement investment costs to meet increasingly is driven predominantly by the need to at EU and UK level.
move to a sustainable, low carbon energy k Development of abatement and alternative sector which delivers affordable supplies k Lower load factors generation levels.
to customers whilst maintaining security k Adverse effect on financial results k Regular third party assurance over of supply over the longer term.
regulations are many and complex, are k Strong safety culture and related training.
frequently changing, and becoming ever Associated objective and key priorities k Deliver our biomass strategy.
more stringent, particularly in relation to environmental matters k Maintain operational excellence.
Risk k Changes to the current regulatory regime surrounding renewables, Carbon Price Support and other legislation could adversely affect our biomass strategy.
k The EU, UK and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations cover many aspects of our operations including limits on emissions to air and water, noise, soil groundwater contamination, waste, and health and safety standards.
Note: Ratings risk is no longer listed in the principal risks and uncertainties, following the development and implementation of a sub-investment grade business model, as set out in Operational and financial performance.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
