Business Review Risk management The Group maintains rigorous procedures for understanding and managing its risks.
The Group has various risks, both external and internal, which could How risk is managed at DS Smith have a material impact on its performance.
The Groups exposure is mitigated to some extent by the range of geographies and markets served that constitute the business of the Group, and by the broad customer base.
The principal Group-wide risks, their impact on the The Board Group and how we mitigate those risks, are set out below.
Overall responsibility There are further references to risks faced by the Group in the Financial review, Corporate Governance section and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Report.
The Group The Group Steering Team seeks to mitigate insurable risks through an insurance programme Responsible for making recommendations to the that covers property, liability and other risks where it is relevant Board and for proposing risk mitigation plans and cost-effective to do so.
The Risk Committee Responsible for the detailed analysis of risks and the implementation of proposed plans Key risks Dependence on UK, continental European and other global economic conditions Impact Mitigation The demand for packaging will vary according to the economic DS Smith seeks to focus on supplying packaging to FMCG climate in which the Group operates, in particular the UK and customers who, because they supply consumers with grocery and continental Europe.
This is particularly true of customers outside the home care products, tend to show more resilient volumes compared fast-moving consumer goods FMCG sector, where purchases are more to suppliers of discretionary purchases.
In the event of a sustained fall discretionary in nature.
The impact of the current slow-down in these in demand, the Group would take mitigating action to protect its regions on the operations of the business is dif cult to predict and pro tability, as set out below.
could potentially lead to a decline in demand for packaging products.
There is no visibility on when the current uncertain economic outlook will improve.
Availability and volatile pricing of raw materials Impact Mitigation In 2011 12 the Group spent c. 900 million on purchasing paper, The Group is seeking to improve the speed with which we are plastics and other raw materials.
The Group also spent c. 126 million contractually able to recover input costs, by bringing the UK contract on energy.
These costs have increased substantially over the prior year, structures, typically with six month price-review periods, into line with and to date the Group has largely recovered these costs in pricing, our continental European operations which operate on a three month typically with the usual three to six month delay depending on the price-review structure.
We also seek to differentiate our packaging business.
However, in the event that, due to competitor behaviour or through a focus on adding value to our customers supply chains other factors, DS Smith were unable to recover further price increases by focusing on service, quality and innovation.
A description of our exposure to energy costs speci cally is given later in this Risk on a similar time-scale, the pro tability of the Group would be substantially reduced.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 29 Risk management continued Key risks continued Strategy implementation and acquisition risk Impact Mitigation The Group has a strategy to become the leading supplier of The management team of DS Smith is being developed with additional resource, both from within the Group and externally, recycled packaging for consumer goods.
It aims to achieve this through a combination of cost control, improved procurement dedicated to operational efficiency, procurement, acquisition and processes and through organic investment and acquisition.
There is considerable experience of this work particular, on 30 June 2012 DS Smith will complete its acquisition within the senior team, gained both within the Group and from of SCA Packaging, with targeted cost synergies of 75 million and their previous roles.
capital savings of 40 million, both to be achieved over three years.
Were the Group not able to implement its savings or were the Group not able to nd further suitable acquisition targets available at prices that enable the Group to achieve its strategic return on capital targets, or were the Group unable to fund such acquisition or investment on acceptable terms or to integrate the acquired businesses effectively, this could curtail the delivery of the Groups strategy and negatively impact the Groups financial returns.
Restrictions due to level of indebtedness Impact Mitigation As at 30 April 2012 the Group had net cash of 321.7 million.
The average term of the facilities committed is four years and eight months and 63 per cent of the Groups debt is at xed rates for a At completion of the SCA Packaging acquisition, the Group will pay consideration proceeds of approximately 1.6 billion from cash period of 12 months or more.
The Group sources its debt finance reserves and committed banking facilities.
The average interest rate from a mixture of private placements with institutional investors and on the resultant debt balance is expected to be 4.5 per cent.
Were bank debt from a syndicate of 15 institutions.
The counterparty risk events, either specic to DS Smith, or to the financial systems externally, is carefully monitored such that the failure of one lender would not to mean that capital was not available at competitive rates, this materially impact on the Groups access to capital.
Cash deposits could have a material impact on the profitability of the Group.
are placed with institutions with a Standard and Poors credit rating A one percentage point change in the interest rate paid by the of A-minus or above.
In countries where this is not possible, deposits Group would increase interest costs by c. 10 million.
are held with strong local banks.
In addition, the Group will temporarily increase its level of The Group expects to reach its target of 2.0x net debt EBITDA indebtedness to above the target level of 2.0x net debt EBITDA, by the end of the first full financial year of ownership of SCA in order to fund the acquisition of SCA Packaging.
A number of the more onerous restrictions are contained nancing arrangements require the Group to dedicate a substantial only in term loan A, which is expected to be renanced shortly proportion of operating cash ow to make payments on the debt, and after completion of the SCA Packaging acquisition.
contain certain restrictions on the Group.
These include, among other Please refer to the Financial review section of this Annual Report things, the ability to take on further borrowings, pay dividends, make for a description of our nancing arrangements.
certain disposals or to move assets.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 30 Business Review Key risks continued The funding position of the Groups dened benefit pension schemes Impact Mitigation The Groups UK dened benefit pension scheme is sensitive to a On 30 April 2011 the Groups UK dened benefit pension scheme closed to future accrual.
This decision was taken by the trustees in light number of key factors: the value of the assets, the discount rate used to calculate the schemes liabilities based on corporate bond yields and of the growing deficit of the scheme and the trustees responsibility to the mortality assumptions for the members of the scheme.
The valuation safeguard the accrued benets to existing members.
The Group also of the Groups various pension schemes as at 30 April 2012, of which reached agreement with the trustees for a prole of future payments the UK scheme makes up the largest proportion, was a deficit of to repay the deficit, being annual payments of 14.8 million starting 104.2 million.
While the UK scheme is now closed to future accrual, in 2011 12, increasing by 2 per cent per annum, for 10 years.
changes in these assumptions could mean that the deficit increases further.
On completion of the SCA Packaging acquisition, the Group has now assumed responsibility for dened benefit pension obligations with an asset value at 30 September 2011 of approximately 45 million and liabilities of approximately 100 million.
Environmental risks Impact Mitigation Were a material environmental incident to occur at a DS Smith site, As set out in the Corporate Responsibility review section of this Annual this could result in material financial costs and reputational damage Report, the Group has detailed processes in place at all sites to ensure that could undermine our commercial position as a provider of that, as a minimum, we comply with all relevant environmental rules environmental solutions.
New regulations relating to environmental and regulations.
standards and to climate change and CO emissions can give rise 2 to significant additional costs of compliance.
Fall in demand Impact Mitigation The profitability of the Group is sensitive to volume, the mix of sales and In the event of falling demand, the Group would take prompt action product pricing.
A fall in demand could arise due to competitive action, to address its cost base.
Further, the strategy of the Group is to focus product substitution, changes in consumer preferences or an overall on developing packaging for FMCG, as this sector has historically decline in the macroeconomic environment.
A 5 per cent reduction in shown substantially less volatility in demand during periods of economic corrugated packaging volumes across the Group would theoretically downturn, than industrial users of packaging.
result in a fall in Group operating profit by around 25 million, to the extent not mitigated by cost control.
Other risks Competition in the paper market and the corrugated packaging market Impact Mitigation DS Smith is the largest producer of corrugated case material CCM We aim to develop long-standing relationships with our corrugated in the UK, and also the largest producer of corrugated packaging.
packaging customers based on the value that we add to their supply Including the capacity of SCA Packaging, the Group will be one of the chain, and to differentiate DS Smith by the service, quality and largest manufacturers of CCM in Europe and will be the second largest innovation that we offer.
We are also implementing plans to reduce supplier of corrugated packaging in Europe.
In the event of material our costs in the UK Packaging division and to improve procurement.
new paper production capacity being installed by our competitors, this could impact the market for CCM, which is largely a commoditised product, both directly or through the impact of imports, which could in turn inuence pricing in the corrugated packaging market.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31 Risk management continued Other risks continued Energy costs Impact Mitigation The Groups exposure to energy costs is set out in the Financial review The Group aims to mitigate its exposure to energy costs by a in this Annual Report.
The most significant energy risk relates to the combination of diversifying away from fossil fuels and, where purchase of gas in the UK, where a 10 pence per therm increase this is not possible, through long-term purchasing strategies.
represents an increase in operating costs of 9 million.
The Group is looking to maximise in-house energy generation from its combined heat and power CHP plants in the UK and France.
The Group operates a centralised approach to purchasing energy in the UK and France.
The impact of energy costs is managed through the use of long-term contracts and through hedging techniques.
The Group monitors its hedging instruments to ensure that it is not overly reliant upon any single counterparty.
Operational failure such as IT systems and controls or facilities failure Impact Mitigation Like most businesses, the Group depends on its IT systems and controls The Group manages its IT through a combination of experienced for the management of its operations.
Were these to fail for a material staff and contracted-out teams.
The Group has back-up arrangements in length of time, this could disrupt the Group from transacting its business.
place at all its major sites.
The Group operates to the highest standards Were an incident such as a re to happen at a major site, this could of safety at its facilities.
The Group has a large network of sites such impact on the operations and financial performance of the Group.
that manufacturing of some products could be transferred between sites.
The Group is also insured against losses arising from certain incidents that might impact on the operations of our facilities.
Note, however, that certain losses are either not insurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to natural disasters, riots, acts of war or terrorism.
Competition Impact Mitigation The Group operates in a market controlled by laws governing The Group has a rigorous programme of training for all relevant competitive behaviour.
Penalties for breaching competition laws employees, to ensure that they fully understand the applicable laws could result in substantial fines.
and the high standards to which they are expected to operate.
Furthermore, the Group operates a Workplace Malpractice helpline in those jurisdictions where this is permissible, providing a condential route for employees to report perceived malpractice of any type.
Industrial relations breakdown Impact Mitigation The Group including SCA Packaging will employ c. 22,000 people.
The Group maintains good relationships with all significant Were an issue to arise that caused a material breakdown in industrial organisations that seek to represent its employees.
Furthermore, the relations, such that there was a prolonged strike or other industrial Group aims to provide employees with a safe working environment action within a part of the business, this could have a material impact and a culture that fosters excellent performance and encourages on the financial performance of the Group.
Through being an employer of choice, we aim to avoid material industrial relations issues arising.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 32 Business Review Other risks continued Employee safety Impact Mitigation Employee safety is the Groups top priority.
Were an incident to The Group has a very detailed and extensive health and safety arise where unsafe practice was found to be taking place, this could programme, which is embedded in all its operations.
Further details potentially result in the interruption of some of our operations for a of this programme are set out in the Corporate Responsibility review period of time and the Group could incur financial penalties and in this Annual Report.
Product liability Impact Mitigation The Groups products are used, amongst other things, for packaging The Group has not been held liable in any material product liability food and drink products and accordingly are manufactured to claims in the past several years.
The Group observes all applicable conform to the relevant standards.
Were any products to be defective, safety standards and engages with industry bodies in their research or were the applicable standards to become signicantly more onerous, on the use of packaging for food and drink products.
this could give rise to both financial and reputational damage to the Group.
Taxation Impact Mitigation The amount of taxation paid by the Group is dependent on the The Group actively manages its tax affairs in order to minimise applicable tax law in the jurisdictions in which we operate and on the the tax paid, within the scope of the tax laws where we operate.
geographic mix of the business.
Were the tax rate to be increased in those jurisdictions, or the geographic mix of the business to change to be skewed towards higher tax jurisdictions, then the overall tax rate of the Group may rise, impacting on the profits that may be distributed to shareholders.
Foreign exchange rate movements Impact Mitigation Following the SCA Packaging acquisition, approximately 65 per cent In relation to currency translation, the conversion rate which is of the Groups operating profit, per annum, will be derived from non material to the Group is sterling to the euro.
A decrease in the value sterling currencies, principally the euro.
The Group does not hedge for of the euro by 1 cent would reduce operating profit by c. 1.1 million currency translation effects on revenue or operating profit.
As described and, after a benefit to the interest cost of c. 0.3 million, pre-tax profit in the Financial review section of this Annual Report the Groups debt by 0.8 million.
is mainly denominated in euros and this acts as a net investment hedge of the Groups euro net assets.
Other social and environmental matters Impact Mitigation The Groups management of other social and environmental risks is As described in the Corporate Responsibility review.
described in the Corporate Responsibility review in this Annual Report.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33
