Dunelm Group plc 14 Annual report and accounts 2012 Key risks and uncertainties In common with all businesses Dunelm faces risks and uncertainties that could impact the achievement of its core strategic objectives.
The Board of Dunelm has overall responsibility for risk management, internal control and business continuity and determines the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take.
Continual review is required to identify, evaluate and prioritise risks and to ensure that appropriate controls are in place to manage these effectively.
An annual risk identification and assessment workshop is in place to review the risk profile of the organisation and to compile the Groups Risk Register.
Quarterly reviews of these risks are undertaken by management and the Board gains assurance through twice yearly reviews, as well as by regular challenge to the executive team.
The Board considers that the principal risks to Dunelms aims of achieving its strategic objectives are as follows: Strategy Risks Mitigation Competition The Group competes with a wide variety of retailers both The Board continually monitors Group performance within in-store and on-line.
Failure to withstand increased the Homewares market and against specific competitive competition in the Homewares market on multiple fronts threats.
Continuous brand tracking also operates to gauge price, range, quality and service could materially impact relative customer perception and experience.
Initiatives seek returns and limit opportunities for growth.
to develop and enhance the multi-channel customer offer and thus strengthen our specialist proposition and brand.
Economic uncertainty Uncertainty surrounding the resilience of the UK The Group mitigates this by reacting quickly to consumer economy and effectiveness of fiscal and monetary changes and adjusting its offer in response.
In addition our measures will continue to put pressure on consumer focus on maintaining a low cost base helps us to maintain expenditure.
This is likely to result in difficult trading our affordable Simply Value for Money proposition.
conditions in the retail sector as a whole limiting profitability and growth opportunities.
Commodity prices Significant cost price increases and high levels of Dunelm uses its scale, buying power and growth to secure volatility have been a feature of retailing over recent years supply of key raw materials at competitive prices.
Freight particularly freight rates, raw materials, energy and rates, energy and currency are bought forward to help exchange rates.
Failure to manage and control these mitigate volatility and aid margin management.
changes will lead to pressure on margins and adversely impact the financial results.
Portfolio expansion Vacant or new retail space is essential to deliver our growth The Groups strong cash generation and debt-free status plans.
In addition, the quality and location of the Groups provide an attractive covenant to landlords, and the ability store portfolio are key contributors to the Groups strategy.
to acquire freehold units if appropriate.
Inability to secure or develop the required retail trading space to deliver our optimal store format will limit our pace of expansion or force us to compromise our offer.
Key Develop our specialist proposition Develop the store portfolio Grow multi-channel Develop and exploit our infrastructure Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 15 Strategy Risks Mitigation Information technology Dunelm is dependent on the reliability and capability of All business critical systems are established, industry key information systems and technology.
They are supported by a incident or sustained performance problems with regard disaster recovery strategy designed to ensure continuity of to store, logistics, multi-channel or head office systems trade.
could constitute a significant threat to the business, at least in the short term.
Trading performance could be adversely impacted by this reliance.
Infrastructure The Group could suffer the loss of a major facility with a Physical infrastructure - Head office, workroom, multiconsequent impact on short term trading or diversion of channel and distribution centre activities are all subject to focus from longer term strategy and planning.
This could disaster recovery plans and could all operate from fall materially affect the profitability of the business.
The Group could suffer the loss of a major supply partner Suppliers The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by also impacting short term trading.
limiting the dependency on individual suppliers and by actively managing key supplier relationships.
High stock service levels and a high proportion of direct-to-store deliveries further mitigate supply chain risk.
Key personnel The success of Dunelm is dependent upon senior The Groups remuneration policy detailed on page 40 management closely supervising all aspects of Group ensures that high calibre executives are attracted and performance, growth and development.
In addition the Board has ensured that the Board could be vulnerable to the loss of individual key continues to build strength in-depth in the operating managers.
Lock-in of senior management is supported by awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Operating Board seeks to develop high calibre individuals through sponsored talent management and succession planning.
Product & service quality The Board recognises that the quality and safety of our Dunelm operates a full test schedule for all new products products and services including coffee shops is and on a sample basis for ongoing lines, overseen by our essential to the business.
If our specialist proposition fails specialist Technology team.
to deliver this there is a risk that individuals could be harmed and that reputational damage could lead to Food hygiene is maintained through the adoption of clear consumers losing confidence in the brand.
operating guidelines contained in the Groups Food Safety Manual.
Staff certification is compulsory and risk assessments, equipment inspections and compliance audits are in constant use to ensure standards are maintained.
Compliance The Group risks incurring penalties or punitive damages Dunelm operates a number of policies and codes of arising from failure to comply with legislative or regulatory practice outlining mandatory requirements within the requirements across many areas including but not limited business governing behaviours in all key areas.
to, trading, health and safety, data protection, Operational management are also responsible for liaising advertising, ethical standards and the environment.
with external advisers to ensure that potential issues from new legislation are identified and managed.
Finance & treasury Lack of appropriate levels of cash resources or exposure Dunelm has significant cash surpluses and further to significant variations in interest rates or exchange rates uncommitted borrowing facilities with partner banks to could have an impact on the Groups operations and fund growth plans.
In addition, cash flows are monitored growth plans.
A Group Treasury Policy is in place to govern cash management strategies and to control foreign exchange exposures.
Nick Wharton David Stead Chief Executive Finance Director 13 September 2012 Dunelm Group plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2012 Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce relative CO 2 2 emissions per ft year on year.
