Directors Report principal riSkS and uncertaintieS In the day-to-day operations of the Group we face We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
First, many risks and uncertainties.
Our job is to mitigate having a global footprint is a great advantage because and manage these risks, and the Board has developed we can move rental fleet from lower-growth economies a formal risk management process to support this.
Set to higher-growth environments: for example, in 2011, out below are the principal risks and uncertainties we moved fleet out of Western Europe into Russia to which we believe could adversely affect us, potentially support its rapid growth.
Secondly, we try to ensure impacting our employees, operations, revenue, profits, that, as they grow, our businesses build a customer-base cash flows or assets.
This list is not exhaustive there which is as diverse as possible, to minimise exposure are many things that could go wrong in an operation to any single sector.
In Brazil we continue to invest as large and geographically diverse as ours and the in temperature control to reduce our sectoral exposure list might change as something that seems immaterial to offshore oil and gas: while in South Africa we are today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
expanding our geographic footprint to enable us to develop under-penetrated sectors such as shipping.
The foundation upon which the Groups risk Thirdly, in the event of a more generalised downturn management process is built is the Group Risk in demand, as we experienced in 2009, we can quickly Register.
This is compiled based on input from the reduce capital expenditure which was demonstrated by businesses across the world as well as a top-down our new fleet investment being 107 million lower in review by members of the Executive Committee and 2009 than 2008.
Given the large depreciation element Board.
This forms the basis of the mitigation strategies in the business cost base 236 million in 2012, put in place for all the key identified risks.
In the reducing capital expenditure to a level close to section below, we have picked from the Risk Register depreciation makes the business very cash generative those items we currently consider to be our most which, in turn, reduces debt and interest cost.
The order in which they are presented is not significant.
Another economic factor to consider is the price of fuel, which is usually the single biggest element in the econoMic conditionS cost of running a generator.
Over the last five years, the price of fuel has been volatile, with the Brent There is a link in our business between demand for 1 Blend price ranging from $35 to $145, but this does our services and levels of economic activity: this link not seem to have had any noticeable impact on is particularly evident in the Local business.
If GDP peoples willingness to rent: people rent generators growth goes negative, demand for rental equipment because they need power, not because it is a cheap is likely to shrink even faster and this impact is likely way of generating electricity.
The major impact of to be multiplied by pricing weakness at times of low the oil-price on our business is that, at times when demand.
As we have experienced in recent years, the it has been high it has produced huge wealth in oiloperational gearing inherent in our business models producing countries which has been re-cycled into means that variations in demand can lead to much infrastructure investment and this, in turn, stimulated larger variations in profitability.
We also have some demand for our services.
If the oil-price is persistently businesses which, by their nature, are exposed to low by which we mean under $50 per barrel we particular sectors for instance, our Australian would expect to see an adverse impact on our business business is highly dependent on mining activity, our in a number of oil-producing countries.
Singapore business has a high proportion of shipping activity, and a material proportion of our North American business comes from upstream and downstream oil and gas.
1 Bloomberg European Brent Blend Crude Oil spot price per barrel.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 principal riSkS and uncertaintieS CONTINUED Exchange rate fluctuations can have a material impact Generally, we find that Governments are keen to on our performance reflected in Sterling: the Groups behave in a fair way to suppliers of critical infrastructure, asset values, earnings and cash flows are influenced by such as Aggreko.
In the last five years, we have had two a wide variety of currencies owing to the geographic incidents, both of which were subsequently resolved, diversity of the Groups customers and areas of where our equipment was seized by authorities as a result operation.
Around 70% of the Groups revenue and of tax or import duty disputes.
Neither of these were costs are denominated in US Dollars: the next largest material to a Group of our size, but either could have currency exposure is to the Euro which accounts been fatal to a small company.
Both are indicative for around 6% of our revenues and costs, and the of the fact that we operate in countries where the Australian Dollar which accounts also for 6% of revenue behaviour of the authorities can be unpredictable, and costs with the Brazilian Real accounting for 3%.
and not always in line with contractual commitments.
The relative value of currencies can fluctuate widely and could have a material impact on the Groups asset The quantum of political risk faced by the business values, costs, earnings, debt levels and cash flows, has grown in recent years with the rapid expansion expressed in Sterling.
We manage the transactional of our Power Projects business, but the benefit of exchange impact through hedging and denomination of scale is that the risk becomes more diversified.
borrowings but we do not try and manage translational exchange impact.
In terms of translational exchange, Failure to collect payMentS a 5 cent movement in the Sterling Dollar exchange or to recover aSSetS rate had an impact in 2012 of around 33 million In practice, the biggest risk is non-payment.
The vast on revenue and 9 million on trading profit.
majority of the contracts into which the Group enters are small relative to the size of the Group and, if a political riSk customer fails to pay a debt, this is dealt with in the This section should be read in conjunction with the normal course.
However, the Group has some large subsequent section on failure to collect payments.
The contracts in developing countries where payment Group operates in around 100 countries, many in Africa, practices can be unpredictable.
The truth is that, with Asia and Latin America.
In some jurisdictions there contracts in around 100 countries, there are always are significant risks of political instability which can two or three large customers who are misbehaving result in civil unrest, equipment seizure, renegotiation as far as payment is concerned, and we constantly or nullification of existing agreements, changes in laws, monitor the risk profile and debtor position of such taxation policies or currency restrictions.
Any of these contracts, deploying a variety of techniques to mitigate could have a damaging effect on the profitability of our the risks of delayed or non-payment.
This mitigation operations in a country.
will vary from customer to customer, but our armoury includes obtaining advance payments, letters of credit, Prior to undertaking a contract in a new country, bank guarantees and, in some cases, insurance against we carry out a risk assessment process to consider losses.
As a result of the rigorous approach to risk risks to our people, to assets and to payments.
management, the Group has never had a significant By far the greatest exposure to political risk is in the loss although we have had some very near misses.
In all cases, the safety of our While the scale in our Power Projects business makes employees is always our first concern, and if the level it less likely that any bad debt would be material to of risk is considered unacceptable we will decline to the Groups balance sheet, the increased number of participate in any contract: where there are potential contracts and countries in which we operate increases risks, we develop detailed security plans to ensure the the likelihood of a loss and makes it highly likely that, safety of our employees.
In terms of asset risks, the at some stage, a major customer will default or prevent Group uses a wide range of tools and techniques to us from repatriating assets.
manage risk, including insurances, bonds, guarantees and cash advances.
Power Projects financial exposures are monitored by the Board on a monthly basis and action plans to address assets, payments or tax exposures are reviewed.
30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report The risk of non-payment of a receivable presents a Failure to conduct BuSineSS dealingS particular risk for a public company such as Aggreko, With integrity and honeSty because our customers are rarely attuned to our Some of the countries in which the Group operates obligations to update the market regularly on our have a reputation for corruption and, given that many performance.
While we seek to ensure that no single of our contracts involve large sums of money, we are country could cause the Company material medium at risk of being accused of bribery and other unethical or long-term damage, failure to collect a major debt behaviour.
The first and most important way of could result in an unexpected, and possibly significant, avoiding this risk is to ensure that people, both inside reduction in our profits in any given reporting period.
and outside the Group, know that Aggreko does not The impact of failure to collect a debt is twofold: first engage in, and will not tolerate, bribery, corruption we make a provision or write-off the debt, and secondly, or unethical behaviour.
We have a strict Ethics we lose future revenue and profit.
We continually make Policy, a copy of which is available on our website judgements as to whether we need to book a provision www.
Rather than just publishing it, against particular debts and, if the debts are material, we get every employee to sign it when they join the they could cause us to miss a forecast and lead to a business: every consultant acting on our behalf agrees negative share price reaction.
Unless a customer actually in writing to abide by it, and every consultancy or seizes equipment, deciding whether a receivable will be agency agreement has an explicit term stating that collected or not is more art than science and there have the agreement will be terminated immediately if the been several occasions when we have had to make consultant or agent does not abide by our policy.
Last difficult judgements as to when to provide for a debt.
year we rolled out a confidential, multi-lingual hotline, The potential for volatility was illustrated during available worldwide, which allows any employee 2012.
During the year the bad debt provision in who has any ethical concerns to report them to an Power Projects increased by 25 million reflecting independent third party on an anonymous basis.
the heightened risk of non-payment in two countries.
While the risk of unethical behaviour can take Even though we have an ever broader portfolio of many forms, the most significant risk we run in this contracts, and therefore a more diversified portfolio area is the behaviour of third party sales agents and of risk, we caution investors that the current high consultants in our Power Projects business.
Given the returns on capital that we earn, particularly in our ephemeral nature of this business there might be Power Projects business, are in effect risk-unadjusted.
no business for us in a country for five years and then So far, no customer has behaved badly enough to suddenly a power crisis might present an opportunity adjust them but, as we repeatedly tell people, it is to supply 100MW for six months it is not practical probably only a matter of time before they do.
to maintain full-time salespeople in each of the 100 countries where we do, or could conceivably eventS do, business.
Instead, we make agreements with The business is, by nature, driven by events.
People organisations which know a country well, can keep hire generators because some event or need makes it our services on the radar of decision makers, and keep essential.
Aggrekos revenues, cashflows and profits us briefed on opportunities.
When an opportunity can be influenced significantly by external events as arises, we send in our own salespeople to work with evidenced by the Japanese tsunami or by the contracts them.
These consultants do not get paid a retainer to supply power to the military camps in the Middle and may receive no compensation other than a thank East.
These events are, by their nature, difficult to you and a pat on the back for years: the reason why predict and, combined with the high operational gearing they are prepared to do this is because when we do inherent in our business, can lead to volatility in trading win a contract they are well rewarded.
By developing the business globally, as well as hard for the money, often taking responsibility for the by increasing and broadening the Groups revenue base, supply of critical elements of the project such as the impact of a single event on the overall Group will finding power-plant sites, providing administration reduce.
Additionally, the ability to move equipment and technical services, labour and security.
The fact around the world allows the Group to adjust to changes that they are only paid on results might be seen to in utilisation caused by any changes in demand.
raise the risk that they are tempted to indulge in Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 principal riSkS and uncertaintieS CONTINUED bribery to secure their income.
How do we protect SaFety against this?
In our view, it is all down to the choice The business of the Group involves transporting, of the sales consultant and, to this end, we carry installing and operating large amounts of heavy out comprehensive due diligence on all potential equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very candidates.
Before we appoint an agent or consultant, high pressure air and involves the use of millions we use specialist third-party investigators to conduct of litres of fuel which could cause serious damage comprehensive background checks on them: these to the environment.
Every day, we manage the risks checks include obtaining bank references and searches associated with this business, and we have carefully for previous records of inappropriate behaviour or designed procedures to minimise the risk of an of any family or other links with the customer or accident.
If these procedures are not followed government.
Once a sales consultant has been however, accidents can happen and might result in appointed, we keep a close eye on them.
Payments injury to people, claims against the Group, damage made to agents and sales consultants are subject to its reputation and its chances of winning and to audit by internal auditors to ensure they are in retaining contracts.
accordance with the agreements, and we have a full-time Compliance Officer who continuously The Group has a proactive operational culture that monitors our dealings with sales consultants and puts health and safety at the top of its agenda in order agents.
In addition, we carry out regular training to reduce the likelihood of an accident.
We work very of managers and salespeople who deal in at-risk closely with our customers, employees and Health & jurisdictions and, from time to time, we conduct Safety authorities, to evaluate and assess major risks to independent reviews of contract files.
We also ensure that health and safety procedures are rigorously structure our sales consultancy agreements to allow followed.
The Group has developed health and safety us to terminate any agreement immediately and KPIs which are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
without compensation in the event that we suspect any inappropriate behaviour.
Given that these sales coMpetition consultants have much to gain by working for us, Aggreko operates in a highly competitive business.
this is a powerful incentive to behave.
The barriers to entry are low, particularly in the Local business and, in every major market in which we We model our compliance regime around the operate, competitors are constantly entering or leaving requirements of the UK Bribery Act and the US the market.
We welcome this competition as it keeps us Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA.
A sub sharp and also helps to grow the overall rental market committee of the main Board was formed in 2011, the which, in many countries, is under-developed.
Board Ethics Committee, which is composed entirely of Non-executive Directors, who meet to approve We monitor competitor activity carefully but, our ethics-related policies and procedures, and the ultimately, our only protection from suffering material compliance thereof.
A report from the Committee damage to our business by competitors is to work is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts.
relentlessly to provide our customers with a high quality and differentiated service proposition at a price that they believe provides good value.
32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report product technology and people eMiSSionS regulation Aggreko knows that it is people who make the The majority of Aggrekos fleet is diesel-powered, and difference between great performance and mediocre some of our equipment is over ten years old.
This is true at all levels within the the increasing focus on environmental issues, countries business.
We are keenly aware of the need to attract continue to introduce legislation related to permissible the right people, establish them in their roles and levels of emissions and this has the potential to affect manage their development.
As a framework for people our business.
Our engines are sourced from major development, we have in place a talent management manufacturers who, in turn, have to develop products programme which covers most of the management which conform to legislation, so we are dependent on population.
Under this programme, we try to identify them being able to respond to legislation.
We also have the development needs of each individual from the to be aware that when we buy a generator we want outset, as well as identifying successor candidates to be able to rent it for its useful life and to be able for senior roles, which has been demonstrated in our to move it between countries.
recent reorganisation where internal candidates have filled two of the open Regional Executive Director To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of strategies.
We also have an ongoing relationship with First, we retain considerable in-house expertise on one of the worlds leading business schools, IMD, engine technology and emissions so we have a good to deliver a tailor-made Group-wide management understanding of these issues.
Secondly, we have very education programme.
close relationships with engine manufacturers so we get good forward visibility of their product development Another risk is that competitors seek to recruit our pipeline.
When new products appear particularly key personnel.
For many years, Aggreko has been a those with improved emissions performance we aim target for recruitment and we manage this on a daily to introduce them into the fleet as quickly as possible basis.
We actually regard it as a compliment that so to ensure that, over time, our fleet evolves to evermany companies want to recruit our people.
The main better levels of emissions performance.
An example mitigation for this is to make sure that people enjoy of this is the significant investment we have made working for Aggreko, that they feel that they are in the development of our gas-fuelled technology in recognised, cared for, and have challenging and recent years: these engines have significantly reduced interesting jobs.
Reward is also an important part of emissions compared with other fuel types.
Gas powered the equation, and there can be little doubt that our generation now accounts for over 1,000MW of our policy of rewarding people well for good performance, fleet.
Thirdly, if emissions-compliance becomes such an and of having a successful Long-term Incentive Plan, issue that it begins to impact our business in a material has acted as a powerful retention tool.
way in some territories, our global footprint will be a major advantage as it gives us numerous options for the re-deployment of our fleet.
An example of this is in our North American business where, by the end of 2013, almost 50% of the fleet will be either Tier 3 or Tier 4 compliant, with the previous fleet being re-deployed to other parts of the Group.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
