easyJet plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance and risk Financial review continued Principal risks and uncertainties The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to have the most significant effect on easyJets business, financial results and prospects.
This list is not intended to be exhaustive.
easyJet carries out a detailed risk management process, to ensure that risks are identied and mitigated where possible, although many remain outside our full control, for example adverse weather, pandemics, acts of terrorism, changes in government regulation and macroeconomic issues.
A more detailed overview of the risk management process and internal control can be found in our Corporate Governance section on pages 47 and 48.
Strategic impact Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Major safety incident accident Our number one priority is the safety, including security, Failure to prevent a major safety incident or deal with it effectively.
We operate a strong safety management system through: This could adversely affect our reputation, operational and nancialperformance.
Security and terrorist threat or attack A major security related threat or attack from eitherinternal A Safety Review Board.
orexternal sources occurs and we fail to deal with it effectively.
This could adversely affect our reputation, operational and nancialperformance.
A Management and control system for our operations including weekly operations meetings and reporting.
A Regular review by the Board of Directors.
We have response systems in place and provide training for crisis management: combined with full crisis management exercises performed regularly.
Insurance is held which is believed to be in line with otherairlines.
We constantly ensure that regulations required by relevant Governments are enforced.
Crew are trained within the current guidelines.
SAFETY FIRST Performance and risk easyJet plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2012 Strategic impact Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Processes in place to adapt to widespread disruption.
Impact of mass disruption in peak seasonal months A full crisis management exercise is performed regularly A number of factors can lead to widespread disruption to our anda business continuity programme is in place.
network, including epidemics pandemics, forces of nature extreme weather, volcanic ash, etc, acts of terrorism, union activity significant analysis and senior management focus has and strike action.
Any widespread disruption could adversely affect resulted in crewing solutions being put into place to further our reputation, operational and financial performance.
recognise the external factors and volatility that impact the If the widespread disruption occurred during our peak summer airline industry.
months then easyJets financial results would be signicantly easyJet has a strong financial balance sheet allowing us to impacted.
As load factors are also higher during this period, it would be in a strong position to withstand potential events that potentially take longer to recover from any significant disruption.
result in periods of reduced revenues.
Single eet risk The efficiencies achieved by operating a single eet type easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its sole supplier for aircraft, with are believed to outweigh the risks associated with the two aircraft types A319 and A320.
There are significant cost and efficiency advantages of a single Rigorous established maintenance programme is followed.
eet, however there are two main associated risks: easyJet constantly reviews the second-hand market and A Technical or mechanical issues that could ground the full eet or has a number of different options when looking at eet exit part of the eet which could cause negative perception by the strategies, e. g. easyJets targeted eet mix is a 70:30 split ying public.
This facilitates the exit strategy of older A319s, protects residual values as well as increasing A Valuation risks which crystallise on the ownership exit of the exibility in managing the eet size.
The main exposure at this time is with the ageing A319 eet, where we are reliant on the future demand for secondhand aircraft.
IT system failure Key systems are hosted in multiple datacentres in two easyJet is currently dependent on a number of key IT systems and distinct locations with failover arrangements between them.
processes operated at London Luton airport and other keyfacilities.
A business continuity programme including disaster A loss of systems and access to facilities including the website, recovery arrangements is in place.
This is being rened to could lead to significant disruption and have an operational, ensure continued alignment to operational requirements.
Alternative sites are available should there be a need to relocate critical staff at short notice due to a loss of facilities.
Dependence on third-party service providers Processes are in place to manage third party service easyJet has entered into agreements with third party service providerperformance.
providers for services covering a significant proportion of its Centralised procurement department that negotiates operation and cost base.
Failure to adequately manage third party performance would Most developed markets have suitable alternative affectour reputation, operation and financial performance.
Loss of these contracts, inability to renew or negotiate favourable replacement contracts could have a material adverse effect on future operating costs.
Industrial action Employee and union engagement takes place on a Large parts of the easyJet workforce are unionised.
exist at our key third party service providers.
If any action was taken significant analysis and senior management focus has this could impact on easyJets ability to maintain our ight schedule.
resulted in crewing solutions being put into place to further This could adversely affect our reputation, operational and recognise the external factors and volatility that impact the nancialperformance.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE easyJet plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance and risk Financial review continued Strategic impact Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation A Network Portfolio Management Strategy is in place which Asset allocation looks to take a balanced approach to the route portfolio easyJet has a leading presence on the top 100 routes in Europe that we y to ensure that we optimise each aircraft to get andpositions at primary airports that are attractive to time sensitive the best return for each time of day, each day of the week.
easyJet manages the performance of its network bycareful allocation of aircraft to routes and optimisation of its Route performance is monitored on a regular basis and yingschedule.
operating decisions are made to improve performances If we fail to continue to optimise our network and eet plan this where required.
willhave a major impact on easyJets ability to grow and gain the required yield.
In addition, poor planning of the correct number ofaircraft to y the schedule would have a critical impact on easyJets costs and reputation.
Exposure to fuel price uctuations and other Board approved hedging jet fuel and currency in place macroeconomic shifts that is consistently applied.
Policy is to hedge within a Sudden and significant increases in jet fuel price and movements percentage band for rolling 24 month period.
inforeign exchange rates would signicantly impact fuel and other To provide protection, the Group uses a limited range of costs.
Increases in fuel costs have a direct impact on the financial hedging instruments traded in the over the counter OTC performance of the company.
If not protected against, this would markets, principally forward purchases, with a number of have a material adverse effect on financial performance.
easyJets business can also be affected by macroeconomic issues A strong balance sheet supports the business through outside of our control such as weakening consumer confidence, uctuations in the economic conditions for the sector.
inationary pressure or instability of the Euro.
This could give rise Regular monitoring of markets and route performance toadverse pressure on revenue, load factors and residual values by our network and eet management teams.
Financing and interest rate risk Group interest rate management policy aims to provide All of the Groups debt is asset related, reecting the capital certainty in a proportion of its nancing.
intensive nature of the airline industry.
Operating lease rentals are a mix of xed and oating rates.
Market conditions could change the cost of finance which may All on balance sheet debt is oating rate, re-priced up to havean adverse effect on our financial performance.
None of the agreements contain financial covenants to bemet.
A portion of US dollar mortgage debt is matched with USdollar money market deposits.
Liquidity risk Board policy is to maintain a targeted level of free cash and The Group continues to hold significant cash or liquid funds as money market deposits.
This allows the business to ride out downturns in business Lack of sufficient liquid funds could result in business disruption ortemporary curtailment of activities e. g. eet grounding, andhave a material adverse effect on our nancialperformance.
security incident, extended industrial dispute at a key supplier.
Credit risk Cash is placed on deposit with institutions based upon Surplus funds are invested in high quality short-term liquid credit rating with a maximum exposure of 150 million instruments, usually money market funds or bank deposits.
forAAA counterparty money market funds.
Possibility of material loss arising in the event of non-performance ofcounterparties.
STRONG BALANCE SHEET EFFICIENT ASSET UTILISATION Performance and risk easyJet plc 29 Annual report and accounts 2012 Strategic impact Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation We have a very active shareholder engagement Major shareholder investor relationship issues programme led by our Investor Relations team.
We seek easyJet has a major shareholder easyGroup Holdings Limited to engage with easyGroup Holdings Limited on a regular controlling over 25% of ordinary shares.
Shareholder activism could basis alongside all our other major shareholders as part adversely impact the reputation of the Company and cause a of that programme with a view to ensuring the Board distraction to management.
and management team are kept aware of the views easyJet does not own its company name or branding which is ofall shareholders.
licensed from easyGroup IP Licensing.
As for all brand licensees, the easyJet brand could be impacted through actions of the easyGroup A team of individuals from the Board and senior or other easyGroup licensees.
management take responsibility for addressing issues arising from the activist approach adopted by the major shareholder.
The objective is to address issues when they arise as effectively as possible in order to minimise the disruptive effect on day-to-day management of the Companys operation and to anticipate and plan for potential future activism.
Ineffective or non-delivery of the business strategy Programme management ofce PMO and experienced A number of key projects have been set up to deliver key elements project teams have been set up to oversee delivery and of the strategy.
If these projects do not deliver the benets and cost track the budget and benets realisation of all projects.
savings planned we could fall short of our planned financial results.
Steering Group set up with key senior management on it to ensure monitoring, challenge and key decisions are being made at the appropriate level.
Information security Systems are secured and monitored against unauthorised easyJet faces external and internal information security risks.
This will receive continued focus.
TheCompany receives most of its revenue through credit card Information security controls are being further enhanced in transactions and operates as an e-commerce business.
key areas including third parties, governance, HR, physical A security breach could result in a material adverse impact for the security and IT technical.
The security of internal systems and easyJet.
com are reviewed quarterly through penetration testing.
Employee security sessions are run periodically to maintain staff awareness.
Scanning software for fraudulent customer activity is monitored and controlled by the Revenue Protection team.
Bribery Act easyJet has a strong ethical tone from the top.
The Bribery Act came into force in July 2011.
To date there are no Risks assessments have been completed and appropriate precedents set in respect of how this will be enforced with respect to actions taken where necessary.
As with all companies, if we were found to be in breach General awareness training has been provided, with of the Act this could adversely affect us nancially and reputationally.
additional targeted training given to higher risk groups.
New offerings add complexity to customer experience Rigorous change governance process in place.
easyJet has the ability to deliver value to the customer by ensuring The customer experience is at the heart of all changes the end to end customer proposition continues to make travel easy.
or new offerings considered by easyJet.
There is a risk that as easyJet continues to grow we could add additional complexity into our business model.
REPUTATIONAL RISKS easyJet plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance and risk Financial review continued Strategic impact Risk description and potential impact Current mitigation Regular monitoring of competitor activity and potential Competition and industry consolidation impact of any consolidation activity.
easyJet operates in competitive marketplaces against both ag carriers and other low-cost airlines.
Rapid response in anticipation of and to changes.
One of easyJets key competitive advantages is its strong cost Strong cost control across the company.
If we lost sight of this or relaxed our stance over cost drives cost reduction and efficiency into targeted areas.
controlthis could signicantly reduce any competitive advantageand impactprotability.
Industry consolidation will also affect the competitive environment in a number of markets.
This could cause a loss of market share anderosion of revenue.
Regulator intervention easyJet has a key role in inuencing the future state The airline industry is currently heavily regulated, with expected ofregulations.
This includes environmental, A Regulatory Affairs Group coordinates the work and effort security and airport regulation which have charges levied by in this area.
regulatory decision rather than by commercial negotiation.
easyJet is exposed to various regulators across our network, whichwill increase as the Company grows geographically.
Thiscould have an adverse impact to our reputation, cost base andmarket share.
An inadequate knowledge or misinterpretation oflocal regulations could result in fines or enforcement orders.
Chris Kennedy Chief Financial officer EXTERNAL RISKS Corpora te responsibility Introduction 32 Safety first 32 Our people 33 easyJet and the environment 36 easyJet actions 37
