BUSINESS REVIEW RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Management of risks and uncertainties In pursuit of this strategy, EnQuest has to face and manage The Board has articulated EnQuests strategy to deliver avariety of risks.
As a result, the Board has established a risk shareholder value by: management framework, embedding the principles of effective exploiting its hydrocarbon reserves risk management throughout the business.
commercialising and developing discoveries converting its contingent resources into reserves and Key business risks pursuing selective acquisitions The Groups principal risks could lead to a significant loss of reputation or could prevent the business from executing its strategy and creating value for shareholders.
These risks, along with mitigating actions are set out below: Risk Mitigation Health Safety and Environment HSE The Group maintains, in conjunction with its core contractors, a comprehensive programme of health, safety, environmental, asset integrity and assurance activities and has implemented a Oil and gas development, production and exploration activities are complex and HSE continuous improvement programme, promoting a culture of transparency in relation to HSE matters.
The Group has established a Corporate HSE Committee which meets quarterly.
HSE risks cover many areas including operational safety, personal health and safety, performance is discussed at each Board meeting.
compliance with regulatory requirements and potential environmental harm.
The Group has also taken over as duty holder on its producing assets and strengthened its operating capability accordingly.
In addition, the Group has a positive, transparent relationship with the UK Health and Safety Executive.
Production The Groups programme of asset integrity and assurance activities provides leading indicators of significant potential issues which may result in unplanned shutdowns or which may in other The Groups production is critical to its success and is subject to a variety of risks respects have the potential to undermine asset availability and uptime.
The Group continually assesses the condition of its assets and operates extensive maintenance and inspection including subsurface uncertainties, operating in a difficult environment with mature procedures designed to minimise the risk of unplanned shutdowns and expenditure.
The Group monitors both leading and lagging K3Is in relation to its maintenance activities and liaises closely equipment and potential for significant unexpected shutdowns and unplanned with its downstream operators to minimise pipeline and terminal production impacts.
Lower than expected reservoir Life of asset production proles are audited by independent reserves auditors.
The Group also performancemay have a material impact undertakes regular internal peer reviews.
The Groups forecasts of production are risked to onthe Groupsresults.
The Groups delivery infrastructure on The Sullom Voe Terminal has a good safety record and its safety and operational performance theUKCS is dependent on the Sullom levels are regularly monitored and challenged by the Group and other Terminal owners and users VoeTerminal.
to ensure that operational integrity is maintained.
The Group has project teams which are responsible for the planning and execution of such new Project Execution projects with a dedicated team for each development.
The Group has detailed controls, systems and The Groups success will be dependent upon monitoring processes in place to ensure that deadlines are met, costs are controlled and that design bringing new developments to production concepts and Field Development 3lans are adhered to and implemented.
These are modied when on budget and on schedule.
The Alma Galia the circumstances require, but only through a controlled management of change process and with development is the Groups first since the necessary internal and external authorisation and communication.
EnQuest ensures that inception and it involves significant capital responsibility for delivering time critical supplier obligations and lead times are fully understood, expenditure.
To be successful, the Group acknowledged and proactively managed by the most senior levels within supplier organisations.
must ensure that project implementation is both timely and on budget.
Failure to do so The Alma Galia development is progressing towards conclusion and all major contracts for may have a material negative impact on the supply are procured and in place.
In February 201, EnQuest announced it had approved Groups performance.
additional project scope with the objectives of extending the eld life, optimising operating costs and enabling a potential second phase development.
Drilling, subsea construction and F3SO conversion are all currently in progress.
The Group puts a strong emphasis on subsurface analysis and employs industry leading Reserve Replacement professionals.
The Group continues to recruit in a variety of technical positions which enable it Failure to develop its contingent and prospective resources or secure new tomanage existing assets and evaluate the acquisition of new assets and licences.
All analysis issubject to internal, and where appropriate, external peer review.
All reserves are currently licences and or asset acquisitions and realise their expected value.
In addition, EnQuest has an active Business Development team both in the UK and internationally developing a range of opportunities.
EnQuest PLC 22 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Mitigation The Group has secured appropriate bank facilities and has recently issued a retail bond both Financial Inability to fund appraisal and development ofwhich can be used to fund its development activities.
This funding is supported by operating cash inow from the Groups producing assets.
The Group reviews its cash ow requirements work programmes.
onan ongoing basis to ensure it has suitable resources for its needs.
The Group monitors its employee value proposition to support the recruitment and retention Human Resources oftechnical, commercial and professional personnel, used in identifying and executing its The Groups success is dependent upon its principal activities.
Specically, the Group regularly monitors the employment market to provide ability to attract and retain key personnel.
remuneration packages, bonus plans and long term share-based incentive plans targeted to incentivise performance and commitment to the Group.
To enable the Company to meet its growth aspirations, the Group is undertaking a number ofhuman resource initiatives.
These are part of the overall people and organisation strategy andhave specic themes relating to organisation, people, performance and culture.
Senior management succession planning and development are Board level priorities.
There continues tobe a significant level of resourcing activity and robust recruitment and selection strategies andprocesses are in place.
EnQuests experienced HR department will continue to seek to recruit in line with current workforce plans and forecasts.
The Group also maintains market competitive contracts with key suppliers to support the execution of work where the necessary skills do not exist within the Groups employee base.
Finally, the Group is developing its international presence and is currently building expertise and capability in those jurisdictions.
Operational activities are conducted in accordance with approved policies, standards and Reputation The reputational and commercial exposures procedures.
Interface agreements are agreed with all core contractors.
to a major offshore incident are significant.
The Group undertakes regular audit activities to provide assurance on compliance with established policies, standards and procedures.
Oil Price The Group monitors oil price sensitivity relative to its capital commitments and has a policy which allows hedging of up to 50% of its production.
A material decline in oil and gas prices may adversely affect the Groups results of In order to develop its resources, the Group needs to be able to fund substantial levels of investment.
The Group will therefore regularly review and implement suitable policies to hedge against the possible negative funding impacts of changes in oil prices.
Political and Fiscal It is difficult for the Group to predict the timing or severity of such changes.
However, through Oil & Gas UK and other industry associations the Group does engage with Government and other Changes in the political, regulatory or scal environment affecting the Groups ability to appropriate organisations in order to ensure the Group is kept abreast of expected potential changes and takes an active role in making appropriate representations.
At a more operational level, the Group has procedures to identify impending changes in relevant regulations to ensure legislative compliance.
The Group operates regular cash call and billing arrangements with its co-venturers to mitigate Joint Venture Partners the Groups credit exposure at any one point in time and keeps in regular dialogue with each Failure by joint venture parties to fund their ofthese parties to ensure payment.
Risk of default is mitigated by joint operating agreements obligations.
allowing the Group to take over any defaulting partys share in an operated asset.
Dependence on other parties where the The Group generally prefers to be the operator.
The Group maintains regular dialogue with Group is not the operator.
itspartners to ensure alignment of interests and to maximise the value of joint venture assets.
Competition The Group has a strong balance sheet which puts it in a favourable position to be able to compete effectively and move quickly when looking to acquire assets.
The Group operates in a competitive environment across many areas including The Group also has strong technical and business development capabilities to ensure it is well the acquisition of oil and gas assets, the marketing of oil and gas, the procurement of positioned to identify potential acquisition opportunities.
oil and gas services and access to human resources.
The Group has good relations with oil and gas service providers and constantly keeps the market under review.
Human resources are key to the Groups success and programmes outlined above are in place toensure it can attract and retain key personnel.
