32 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties officer and Chief Financial officer of Effective risk management is integral to delivering our Essar Energy along with divisional strategic goals, whilst protecting our reputation and senior management discuss key developments and new risks arising shareholder value.
within the underlying business divisions.
Similarly, the developments inrisks impacting the Company at a corporate level are discussed at each During 201112, the Board has made established formal policies to promote Board meeting.
The Audit Committee significant progress in implementing a an environment of good governance is also charged with monitoring robust risk management framework and robust risk management.
The effective implementation of controls which not only serves to identify and Board has established a risk register across the business divisions that monitor risks across our business, but that identies strategic risks together specically impact financial risks.
also establishes specic management with financial, operational and Further details of the procedures controls to reduce the incident and compliance risks.
The register includes undertaken by the Board of Essar impact of those risks.
a description of the nature, extent and Energy and its Committees are set out implication of the risks together with the in the Corporate governance report.
Approach to risk management related management controls.
There are a number of risks and The overall responsibility for risk uncertainties which could have an management, and determination of Ongoing monitoring of risks impact on the Companys results and appetite to undertake activities subject The risk register is formally reviewed operations in light of the nature of the to risk and uncertainty, resides with the bythe Board on a half yearly basis industries in which our businesses Board of Essar Energy.
However, given tomonitor principal risks and the operate.
Our principal risks are: the nature of our business, the boards strategies deployed to mitigate them.
of our divisions and key management Ongoing monitoring and management personnel across the Company play of risks takes place on a monthly basis an important part in managing and at the Monthly Review Committee monitoring risks.
The Company has meetings where the Chief Executive Group-wide risks Repayment of sales tax incentive collected amounting to US$1.19 billion and potential interest thereon Implication The eligibility of Essar Oil to participate in the Sales Tax previous judgment of the High Court of Gujarat and ruled Incentive Scheme the Scheme was challenged by the that the Group could no longer participate in the Scheme.
Government of Gujarat in the Supreme Court of India, Essar Oil was served notice by the Government of Gujarat following a judgment by the High Court of Gujarat which on 24 January 2012 requiring it to pay the outstanding sales confirmed that Essar Oil was eligible to participate in the tax liability of US$1,188.2 million plus associated interest of Scheme.
The case was heard at the end of 2011 and, on US$396.0 million.
17 January 2012, the Supreme Court of India set aside the Mitigation On 8 May 2012, Essar Oil led a writ petition before the High Essar Oil is in the advanced stages of arranging a new Court of Gujarat seeking directions on repaying the sales tax by c. US$1 billion Rs.
50 billion bank term loan facility.
This instalments and for remission of interest.
This writ petition was facility is being put in place as a contingency measure for admitted by the Gujarat High Court on 11 May 2012.
Pending the future in the event that Essar Oil is required to pay its the outcome of the petition, the significant uncertainties around deferred sales tax liability to the Government of Gujarat.
the final outcome and the legal advice received by Essar Oil, the interest demanded by the sales tax authorities which amounts to US$396.0 million Rs.
20.25 billion up to 31 March 2012 has been treated as a contingent liability and we do not believe that material interest will be payable.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENT S 33 Compliance with regulation and obtaining licences and permits Implication All of the Groups operations are extensively regulated and The failure to obtain or comply with the terms of such the delivery of our strategy is largely dependent on obtaining permits and approvals would prevent the Group from the appropriate permits, approvals and licenses to complete achieving its growth targets and could ultimately lead to our expansion projects, complying with their conditions and theimpairment of existing assets.
the exploration and development of oil, gas and coal blocks.
Mitigation The Group closely monitors compliance with regulatory working relationship with national, state and local authorities requirements across its business and heads of each and expects to obtain all necessary approvals.
business division and operations confirm compliance with allapplicable laws and regulations on a quarterly basis.
To further strengthen the framework for regulatory compliance, the oil and power businesses have recently The need for permits, approvals and licenses for expansion embarked upon the implementation of compliance systems projects and the exploration and development of oil, gas and which would enable the key stakeholders to jointly review the coal blocks is assessed prior to undertaking any works or status of key compliance requirements and clearances investments.
The ability to obtain the necessary regulatory required for timely project execution.
The critical activities approvals to successfully deliver our strategic goals on time and action plans including matters requiring management is largely out of the control of our senior management.
attention and decision making are reviewed at the PRMs.
However, Essar Energy continues to have a successful Our ability to complete major projects on time and within budget Implication The Group is reliant on the completion of major projects to using efficient technologies to achieve the required maintain its projected growth levels.
In particular, there is a specications.
If projects are not executed on time and to need to ensure projects are managed on time, including the budget, the planned growth and profitability of the Group will delivery by contractors and suppliers, and within budget not be achieved.
Mitigation Progress on all major projects is monitored on a monthly Exploration and Production Oil and Gas business: basis by the relevant project managers at the PRMs.
Critical Within the Exploration and Production business, the issues are also discussed at the Monthly Review Committee Company is actively pursuing efforts to obtain environmental which is attended by all members of the Essar Energy Senior clearances required to ensure timely completion of the Management team.
project for production of gas from CBM in Raniganj, West Bengal.
In the event of any significant delays in obtaining The Group has contracted the management and the required environmental clearance and government construction of major projects to specialist expert project approval for the gas price, the Company has the option management and EPC contractors who are related parties.
under the Gas Supply and Purchase Agreement to The risk of overruns is further mitigated through entering renegotiate contractual terms.
turnkey contracts with these contractors and suppliers.
Power: Renery expansion project Oil and Gas business: The commencement of operations date of each ongoing The Vadinar renery optimisation project to enhance the power project is closely monitored and all contractor renery processing capacity to 20 mmtpa was completed deadlines are accordingly decided and rigorously followed four months ahead of the scheduled completion date of up during the meetings of the Monthly Review Committee.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 34 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties Funding requirements for future operations and growth Implication The Group operates in a capital intensive industry and has Power: significant nancing requirements.
This requires continued The current Power sector environment and significant access to commercial banking facilities, capital markets and lenders exposure to the Power sector makes fund raising maintenance of short-term working capital funding.
The Company requires funding to cover the cost of overruns on power projects.
Oil: Financial closure is pending on certain key projects Raniganj CBM project and HMU.
Mitigation The Group has historically successfully rolled over facilities Oil: in line with market practice and retains good banking The successful commissioning of the Vadinar renery marks relationships.
Banking covenants are reviewed on an an inexion point in the Groups capital expenditure cycle and ongoing basis to monitor compliance.
is expected to augment the cash ows over the foreseeable future.
While financial closure is achieved on most projects, Recently the Group has renanced a US$450 million bridge there are a few projects Raniganj, HMU where the Group is loan which was due in December 2012 with a new US$300 pursuing efforts to achieve financial closure.
Essar Oils efforts million three year secured loan facility and US$150 million of to achieve CDR exit is at an advanced stage and this is internal cash resources.
Separately, the Group has also expected to further boost fund raising ability.
The Company signed a US$250 million 3.5 year subordinated unsecured also maintains working capital and cash ow projections to loan facility with Essar Global for general corporate purposes.
identify funding requirements and ensure facilities are The facility is currently undrawn, but can be drawn in full or in available to meet short-term funding needs.
part at any time during the 3.5 year life of the facility to meet any shortfall in project and working capital nancing.
Power: For projects with cost overruns, the Company is engaged in discussions with lenders for nancing of cost overruns.
Cost overrun funding has been largely secured for one project Mahan and discussions are at an advanced stage for another project Salaya.
Efforts are also underway to secure a facility for development of the Aries coal mine in Indonesia.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates Implication The price of feedstock, natural gas, and imported coal risk to the extent assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of needed to run the Groups power operations and crude oil its subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than the required for the production of rened petroleum products are US dollar.
generally denominated in or tied to the US dollar.
Depreciation in the Indian Rupee against the US dollar Additionally, the Groups functional and presentational hasresulted in an increase in project costs of ongoing currency is the US dollar.
Therefore, it also faces translation powerprojects.
Mitigation Each business division enters into forward foreign exchange Post the recent sudden depreciation in the Indian Rupee, the contracts to cover foreign currency payments and receipts Company has re-evaluated its foreign currency exposures at as well as to manage foreign exchange risks associated a project level and hedging levels have been identied based withanticipated sales, purchase and borrowings in on project IRRs to be maintained protected.
The Monthly Review Committee monitors the level of exposure to foreign exchange rate uctuations across the business and makes recommendations in respect of future hedging.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENT S 35 Challenging business environment Implication The general business environment in which the Group and under severe pressure and exposed to market volatility.
its businesses operate is challenging thereby putting a strain Availability of fuel for power plants is challenging the Groups on the Groups cash ows and operating margins.
Within the ability to operate its power plants profitably.
Companys oil business, product rening margins are Mitigation Improve operating efficiencies aimed at margin enhancements priorities e. g. decision to defer certain power projects until e. g. diversifying the crude basket and cross functional certain milestones are achieved.
Secure alternative channels for fuel supplies.
Constantly evaluate the macroeconomic scenario through sensitivity analysis and re-align the strategy to meet business Reliance on Essar Global and afliated Essar Group companies as major suppliers and customers and managing conicts of interest Implication Mitigation The Power business, in particular, is dependent on Essar The Group has a close working relationship with Group companies as major suppliers and customers.
The EssarGlobal with representation of senior Essar Global loss of this relationship could have a significant impact on the memberson the Board.
There are also long-term contractual Groups continued success.
In addition, as the controlling arrangements with Essar Global and other Essar companies shareholder, Essar Global may have conicting interests to ensure the Companys interests remain protected.
The Group has robust processes for entering into transactions with afliated companies on an arms length basis.
Commercial and reputational damage as a result of Health, Safety or Environmental incident or conicts with local communities Implication The Group is at risk of commercial and reputational damage its ability to work effectively with local and national as a result of Health, Safety or Environmental incident given authorities.
the nature of its operations.
Further, relationships built with local communities in locations where the Company operates As a UK listed entity, the Company is required to comply with need to be maintained to avoid any operational disruptions.
cross border regulatory requirements e. g. the UK Bribery Act.
The loss of confidence any incident might create could have The Company needs to ensure that these are adhered to.
an adverse effect on the overall valuation of the Group and Mitigation The Group has a formal HSE policy with related HSEMS in Tools are in place to monitor emissions from plants and place.
These are communicated to the relevant businesses reneries.
Medical expertise and support is available at and employees with training provided on regular basis.
Regular reviews are carried out of compliance with the HSE The Group works closely with local communities to maintain policy and related HSEMS as well as adherence to regulatory relationships and to ensure that concerns are heard and requirements.
The HSE Committee reports directly to the acted upon on a timely basis.
Board, which ultimately monitors the effectiveness of various policies and systems.
The Group has recently drawn up a detailed anti-corruption policy and code of conduct which has been rolled out across all The results of safety and other inspections of the Companys areas of operations including the key decision making personnel power plants and reneries are frequently reviewed by the at various sites.
Additionally, all senior management personnel Groups senior management to assess the actions taken to are subject to ongoing communications and training to build close the gaps.
awareness of the Companys anti-corruption and bribery policies and procedures.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 36 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties Oil and Gas business risks Inability to achieve the planned GRMs cracks Implication The Oil and Gas business is dependent on the margin Whilst rened product normally tracks changes in feedstock between crude oil prices and rened petroleum product prices prices, there is normally a lag which could seriously impact to maintain profitability.
Operating efficiency andaccess to short-term working capital and profitability.
crude oil of the required quantity, quality andprices has a significant impact on the Companys performance.
Mitigation The Oil and Gas business uses long-term contracts as Essar Oil and Essar Oil UK each have a risk management wellas open international markets to source crude oil at committee which meets weekly to take decisions on competitive prices.
Management prepare four month rolling commodity hedging.
plans on a weekly basis to identify any changes in risk prole and take appropriate action on a timely basis.
Breach of sanctions on Iranian crude Implication The Group has met 33% of its overall crude requirements could impact continuity of crude supplies and consequently from Iranian suppliers.
Recent sanctions on Iranian crude the achievement of planned GRMs.
Mitigation The Group has re-evaluated its crude procurement strategy the shortfall in Iranian crude, Essar Oil is looking at alternative in the light of recent international sanctions on imports of options including increasing the proportion of tough and Iranian crude.
Overall, a 15% reduction has been made in the heavy crudes which are considered suitable for processing quantum of term crude imports from Iran.
To compensate for by the Vadinar renery post expansion.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNAN C E STATEMENT S 37 Power business risks Coal availability and logistical challenges associated with coal transportation Implication The Groups Power business is on track to commission Changes in regulatory requirements relating to coal 6,700 MW of power by the end of March 2014.
Delays in the access pricing e. g. Indonesia have resulted in higher start of mining activities within the allocated coal blocks due overall fuel costs.
to regulatory clearances in both India and overseas has resulted in the Group having to seek alternative coal sourcing arrangements with a potential impact on profitability.
Mitigation Essar Power is in constant discussions with the Committee Further, Essar Power has set up a coal trading desk to nominated by the Empowered Group of Ministers on manage both domestic and imported coal procurement securing tapering coal linkages.
Essar Power has also started work on developing the road The Group is proactively taking steps to seek enhancements infrastructure to overcome the logistical challenges in tariffs under PPAs.
associated with transportation of coal procured through e-auction and imports.
Reliance on a few major customers Implication The Power business supplies to a small number of large difficulties for services provided to GUVNL, which if customers under PPAs.
In particular, there is a significant continued could have a significant impact on the Companys relationship with GUVNL in respect of the provision of power.
There is also an ongoing litigation case with GUVNL, The Company has in the past experienced payment which may result in financial losses.
Mitigation The litigation with GUVNL continues to be ongoing at the date The Group has tight monitoring controls over receipt of of this report.
To date the court rulings have been largely in overdue amounts from customers and litigation is favour of the Company and the Board consider the need for undertaken where necessary.
appropriate provisions at financial reporting period end.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
