Risk management 50 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining a sound risk management and internal control system.
Reduction in the number of acquisitions Risk and compliance Risk management made this year and planned for the Throughout 2012 senior management and Risk and the Board of Directors near future.
the Board have had a regular dialogue The Board is ultimately responsible for Negatively as a result of: on key risks relating to the Companys 2012 maintaining a sound risk management strategic objectives.
We know that some Increased external scrutiny: and internal control system.
Our system of the jurisdictions in which the Group of risk management and internal control Global pressure on commodity prices: operates pose particular and often is designed to identify, manage and mitigate heightened risks that need to be managed Cash flow complexity: and the risk of failure to achieve business appropriately.
We are open to dialogue objectives.
The system provides reasonable Reputational perception.
with shareholders and other stakeholders and not absolute assurance against in order to communicate our position Accordingly, the principal risks to the material misstatement or loss.
execution of the Groups business strategy There are ongoing processes in place are shown in the rest of this section.
The Group continues to enhance its for identifying, assessing, managing, We have explained the nature of each risk, approach to risk management and internal monitoring and reporting on the significant identifying the possible impact and the controls and is committed to the further risks faced by the Group.
These processes associated strategic priorities.
In addition, development of policies, processes and are in place for the year under review up to, we have described the mitigating activity procedures where it is appropriate to do so.
and including, the date of the approval to address those risks, as well as our plans We are acutely aware of our obligations with of the Annual Report and Accounts.
regards to compliance with all applicable Thirteen principal risks were considered laws and regulations, as well as our and reviewed during the course of the corporate value for fair dealing.
current year by the Executive Committee We have compliance officers across our ExCom and this included two newly operations.
The number of compliance articulated risks related to reputation and officers increased again during 2012. a potential emerging Kazakhstani logistics We continue to require all new starters risk and the subdivision of one preacross the Group in appropriate roles existing risk.
to undertake web-based ethics and The ExCom determined that our risk compliance training.
This is delivered online environment had changed: by an independent ethics training provider as well as targeted face-to-face training Positively as a result of: on appropriate compliance topics.
Continued enhancement of our risk Our whistleblowing hotline has been reporting and compliance framework in operation for well over a year and driving further accountability and, where is publicised throughout the Group.
necessary, additional remediation plans: It is independently administered and Continued focus on tone from the top operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, toenhance our risk approach: in all appropriate languages.
We have a new Whistleblowing and Investigations Organisational cultural shift towards a Policy which was introduced in early 2012 risk aware culture: and investigate any whistleblowing reports Implementation of key risk management and take appropriate corrective action.
action plans: and Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Risk: Project management Context Mitigation The approved capital expenditure programme is significant The Group Investment Policys main principles are: and includes large scale expansion projects in existing and Stage gated approach to project selection: acquired operations.
Clear governance framework: Risk Accessible and wider decision-making support: Failure to deliver major capital projects within the agreed time, costand quality criteria.
Group investment procedures: and Possible impact Investment valuation manual.
Lower long-term growth profitability and reputation.
Risk analysis and management for projects methodology for project risk management andsensitivity modelling is being Associated strategic priorities embedded into our project management process: Continue expansion and development of existing reserves Specific project management teams: andcapacity.
A project assurance programme: Quarterly review and analysis of capital projects and reporting onproject progress to the ExCom: and A Group project management code was developed and a training programme implemented in 2012.
Risk: Business development Context Mitigation Industry consolidation continues.
The Group made a number The Board defines the Groups strategy: ofacquisitions in 2012 and will continue to consider opportunities Formalised yearly strategy review process: ifappropriate to do so.
Group Investment Policy: Risk Detailed procedure, governing divestment or outsourcing Failure to identify opportunities to participate in value-adding ofbusiness and assets: transactions, overpaying for a transaction or inaccurate business case leading to inadequate return on investment.
Potential transactions are subject to due diligence and analysis toensure consistency and high standards: Possible impact Approved investment criteria for assessing potential targets: Lower long-term growth, profitability and reputation.
Formal integration plans are developed for each acquisition: Associated strategic priorities progress is monitored and reported to the relevant committees: Add value and customer diversity by expanding product portfolio.
and Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
The Investment Committee oversees all material acquisition activity, approves targets and supervises execution.
Risk management continued 52 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk: Legal and regulatory breach Context Mitigation ENRC is an emerging markets business and is aware that some of The Code of Conduct is regularly revised to bring more the jurisdictions in which the Group operates pose particular and prominence and clarity on behaviours and accountability: often heightened reputational issues that need to be managed All new starters in appropriate roles across the Group undertake appropriately.
Natural resources businesses operating in emerging web-based ethics and compliance training, as well as targeted markets are subject to additional regulatory scrutiny.
In addition, face-to-face training on appropriate compliance topics: there is a general worldwide trend towards enhanced laws and regulation which affect large multinational businesses such The whistleblowing hotline has now been in operation for well as ENRC.
over a year and is publicised by various methods throughout the Group: Risk The new Whistleblowing and Investigations Policy has been Failure to comply with laws and regulations regarding: implemented during the year: Anti-bribery: A counterparty due diligence policy and procedure was Anti-corruption: developed, rolled out and implemented throughout the Group during the year.
Appropriate training on this new procedure was Anti-money laundering: given to over 150 targeted individuals: Sanctions: The Anti-bribery and Corruption Steering Committee Listing Rules, including related party requirements: and or established in 2011 is being developed into a more formal committee with a wider remit, including risk, internal control Anti-trust.
andcompliance matters: Possible impact In 2012, the first internal compliance risk assessment, a Share price devaluation, financial penalties, civil criminal regulatory collaboration between the Risk and Compliance Departments, investigations and or prosecutions, diversion of significant was carried out.
The output of this assessment informed the management and legal time and resources, and significant business plan for the Compliance Department for2013: and remediation requirement.
A Group-wide risk assessment for bribery and corruption risks was undertaken by an external party in 2012.
The final Associated strategic priorities report willbe issued in 2013 and this will also help inform future Commit to high standards of corporate social responsibility compliance activity.
Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Risk: Management capability Context Mitigation We have acquired a number of companies in Africa and Brazil.
Enhancement of the HR functional capability: Globally our regions require strong leadership and an experienced Enhancement of the Groups HR policies and procedures: senior management team to integrate and operate our companies effectively.
Our review of the Groups approach to compensation and benefits continues, clearer consistency and alignment principles Risk are being systematically applied to Senior Executives to drive Failure to attract, retain and develop key management talent.
enhanced business effectiveness: Possible impact 150 Group Programme: Inability to execute long-term growth strategy, lower long-term A new global succession planning process: growth, lower profitability and or corporate reputation.
Strategic Leadership Programme: Associated strategic priorities Global Talent Management Programme: Continue expansion and development of existing reserves Global Graduate Recruitment Programme: and and capacity.
A group leadership conference planned for 2013.
Commit to high standards of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development.
Risk: Organisational development Context Mitigation Originally the Groups operating plants were based in Kazakhstan A Group delegation of authority framework has been developed with a Sales and Marketing function based in Switzerland.
We now and approved by the ExCom: operate a large scale global business and it is important that our A review of the organisational structure has been carried out and governance structures, controls and clear delegations of authority an action plan is being developed: and are appropriate for our new business.
Further enhancements to our governance and policy framework Risk are being implemented.
Ineffective delegation of authority, governance structures and frameworks can impact on the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Possible impact Failure to deliver strategic objectives, lower long-term growth, corporate reputation and financial return.
Associated strategic priorities Continue expansion and development of existing reserves and capacity.
Commit to high standards of corporate social responsibility andsustainable development.
Risk management continued 54 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk: Business integration Context Mitigation Over the last four years the Group executed a number of Senior management oversight of all integration activities: acquisitions and purchased businesses in Africa and Brazil.
Formal integration planning and execution process: Forthe recent acquisition of Shubarkol Komir JSC afar more enhanced integration process was implemented.
For each new acquisition an integration team is established: Risk Extensive personnel meetings are organised to address possible cultural factors: The inability to integrate the operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies to achieve expected Regular site visits to monitor progress: synergies and return on investment.
Further, an increased risk of Alignment of standards, controls and procedures of the acquired legal or compliance breaches if historical standards controls of the company to the Groups best practice: and new asset are not aligned with the Groups best practice.
Streamlining reporting lines of management at the new Possible impact enterprise to the Groups regional, divisional and executive Slow and poor synergies, lower return on investment, profitability bodies.
and reputational impact leads to share price volatility.
Associated strategic priorities Add value and customer diversity by expanding product portfolio.
Liquidity Context Mitigation Over the last four years the Group executed a number of The Groups Treasury Policy and procedures are updated acquisitions and purchased businesses in Africa and Brazil.
Monitoring and reporting processes continue Group has also approved a number of large scale greenfield and tobe enhanced: brownfield projects in Brazil and Africa that will require significant Building and maintaining relationships with financial providers additional financing.
The Groups credit ratings are currently BBand credit rating agencies: with S&P and Ba3 with Moodys, with both ratings on a negative outlook.
It is possible that these credit ratings could restrict the Cash flow forecasts are regularly prepared and presented Groups access to future sources of debt.
tothe Board: Risk Annual budgeting process: Failure to arrange or provide sufficient financing for the Groups Quarterly forecasting process: operating, investment and business development activities.
On a longer-term horizon, the five-year financing plan enables Possible impact the development of a long-term funding strategy for the Group: Inability to meet payment obligations and restriction of the Groups Formal CFO approval and sign-off for all major projects: and ability to raise finance, or inadequate funds available to complete Investment Committee oversight.
projects and business development activities.
Add value and customer diversity by expanding the product portfolio.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Risk: Political risk Context Mitigation The Group is an emerging markets business and most of The Groups existing senior management team possesses its operations are based in fast developing emerging market extensive experience of operating in Eurasia, Africa and economies.
The business could be adversely affected by the developing markets: behaviour of, or new regulations that could be introduced by, Constructive engagement with governments and external thegovernments of the countries concerned, for example: stakeholders: and Re-nationalisation: Appropriate investment to improve the economic and social Controls on imports, exports and sales prices: impact of our businesses on local communities working in partnership with governments.
Terms of mining and other licences: Restriction on foreign ownership of assets: Restriction on the remittance of funds: New forms or rates of taxation, duties and royalties: or New policies or systems.
Risk The risk of strategic, financial, or personnel loss as a result of non-market factors such as macroeconomic and social policies fiscal, monetary, trade, investment, industrial, income, labour and developmental, or events related to political instability terrorism, riots, coups, civil war and insurrection.
Possible impact Business repatriation, significant loss of earnings, financial volatility.
Associated strategic priorities Maintain and improve upon low-cost operations.
Risk: Technical disaster Context Mitigation Technological processes within the mining and metals industry Site safety declarations are in place for each of the Kazakhstani can be susceptible to incidents and disasters, which may have hazardous sites, and these examine potential incidents related potentially significant consequences.
tosite operations and their impact: Risk Technical committees provide input into the operational and capital investment processes of the established businesses: Large-scale technical incident leading to loss of life, environmental impact and interruption to business operations.
Further development of risk management and post-incident crisis management plans are under way: Possible impact Each Kazakhstani site has developed emergency response Corporate reputation, prospects for long-term growth, financial plans to minimise the impact of an incident: profitability, loss of life, environmental damage.
A Group-wide project to enhance our business continuity Associated strategic priorities planning process is currently being rolled-out: Commit to high standards of corporate responsibility and Operational site risk surveys are conducted on a rotational sustainable development.
basis:and Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
Appropriate property damage and business interruption insurance is purchased.
Risk management continued 56 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk: Health, safety, environment and community HSEC Context Mitigation By their very nature, mining operations can be hazardous.
The HSEC Committee focuses on: However, the Groups management is committed to achieving zero Health, safety and environmental management health, safety and environmental related incidents.
and performance: There is also the potential that environmental legislation may be Review of HSEC risks and action plans: and introduced that will impose additional costs on the business.
Changes to regulation in emerging markets.
Risk The Groups health, safety and environmental policy and Health and safety incidents impacting on staff welfare, lost working standards, and the Groups internal corporate accident time, community development and breaches in health, safety and investigation policy: environmental regulation.
HSE training programmes: Environmental legislation drives additional demands, including further costs required to ensure compliance with new standards.
Certified Occupational Health and Safety Management System in line with OHSAS 18001: Possible impact Environmental management system meeting ISO 14001 standards: Corporate reputation, prospects for long-term growth, financial profitability, loss of life or injury, environmental damage, loss of Process safety management: licences to operate.
Kazakhstan critical safety plans: and Associated strategic priorities Design and implementation of a comprehensive environmental Commit to high standards of corporate responsibility and and sustainability risk mitigation programme based on: sustainable development.
External reviews and best practice benchmarking: Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources worldwide.
Development of additional policies and standards where it is appropriate to do so: and Review of HSEC risks by the Audit Committee.
Further information will be available in the second ENRC Sustainable Development Report, which will be published shortly.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Risk: Reputational risk Context Mitigation The Group has suffered reputational damage against its peers Clear communication of the business strategy: over the past few years due to the following market perceptions: More regular communication from the Chairman to all Poor corporate governance and lack of transparency regarding stakeholder groups on key issues: relationships with the Founder Shareholders: A clear and documented commitment from the Board on Lack of clarity over corporate strategy, in particular in Africa: and transparency, openness and good corporate governance: Negative media coverage of a DRC business partner.
The development of a clear Board risk appetite statement that will be rolled out across the business in 2013: Risk Annual governance seminar for investors: A decision or a course of action is perceived negatively by the media, investors and or general public, which in turn impacts the Enhanced roadshow programme, enabling more contact corporate reputation of the Group and its share price.
withinvestors: and Possible impact Enhancements to the structure of the Board.
Negative media coverage: Share price underperformance: Analysts downgrades: Rating agency downgrades: Increase in the cost of doing business, i. e. availability and cost offunding refinancing, Directors & Officers insurance: Negative perception by the general public, industry andregulators: and High staff turnover.
Associated strategic priorities Commit to high standards of corporate responsibility and sustainable development.
Risk: Kazakhstan logistics Context Mitigation As Kazakhstans exports grow, the rail infrastructure may not keep Implementation of an action plan toenhance supply pace with the increased demand.
chain management: Risk Optimal supply chain investment plan to maximise commercial opportunities: The inability to achieve our sales potential for the growing demand for raw materials due to logistic constraints from the lack of Supporting the rail authorities in improving their infrastructure: infrastructure and capacity with particular respect to China.
and Possible impact Working with governments, Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC andChina Railway Corporation, Customs and Security to Failure to maximise potential sales opportunities resulting in loss develop proposals for resolving operational, technological of revenue.
Associated strategic priorities Maximising shareholder value and restrictions to CAPEX projects.
Risk management continued 58 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk: Commodity pricing volatility Context Mitigation The prices of our core products have been historically volatile and The Group regularly monitors market prices, global sales have fluctuated significantly in response to changes in supply volumes and internal levels of inventory: and demand, market uncertainty, the performance of global and Sensitivity analysis is performed to stress test business models: regional economies and cyclicality in industries that purchase these products.
The Sales and Marketing function produces regular forecasts of the sales volumes and prices for each of the Risk Groups commodities: A substantial decline or volatility in commodity prices could The Sales and Marketing function discusses and agrees materially affect the Groups business and financial results as well appropriate production and distribution plans with the as the cash flow projections.
management of the operating companies: and Possible impact Operations are able to quickly and significantly reduce costs Lower profitability, lower long-term growth.
bytemporarily reducing labour and production during periods ofpricing volatility.
06 Governance In this section: 60 Directors biographies 62 Governance overview 63 Corporate governance report 76 Remuneration report 86 Directors report 91 Statement of Directors responsibilities 92 Independent assurance report 93 Independent auditors report
